Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

 

 

Ansbach, July 29, 2019

 

press release

 

Apple starts tracking shots

 

Apple starts recording street and home footage in
Germany. Beginning July 29, 2019, Apple vehicles equipped with Sen-
sensors and cameras are equipped on public roads in Germany
be on the move. Affected citizens can exercise their right to object
perform the recordings.

 

Should anyone notice a vehicle in the next few weeks that has cameras and other devices

mounted on the roof and is driving on public roads in good weather,

then it is very likely to belong to Apple's fleet of vehicles.

 

Creation of map material for own services

 

Apple has informed the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) that a

fleet of about 80 vehicles, some of which are still in Spain

find, in the next few weeks, German cities and communities will be visited. primary goal

According to Apple, the recordings are to improve their own map material in order to use their own

provide services with more accurate information. Apple has us in advance as for Apple in

Germany responsible supervisory authority informed and the data protection concept to the

Vehicle photos presented.

 

No "Look Around" in Germany

 

Apple will use these recordings for its own services, such as Apple Maps, for example to improve

use advanced navigation. At the moment there is no cause for concern (or as

Chance) that the front of your own house is suddenly displayed on Apple's digital map services

becomes. Unlike the "Google Street View" service, Apple is currently not planning in Germany

the Look Around service, for which the recordings would also be suitable, in Germany.

"Should this change in the future, then in addition to transparent and timely information

tion also an easily accessible possibility of objection from Apple, like Google does for the service

Street View has offered and has not set," says Thomas Kranig, President of the

Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision.

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

 

- 2 -

 

Pixelation of people and license plates

 

Apple has stated that faces and license plates are pixelated before further processing.

Data protection by design, as defined by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

is also mandatory for such cases, the risks of processing personal

lower data. According to the concept that Apple presented to the BayLDA, then in almost

In all cases, no persons can be recognized directly and therefore cannot be identified immediately.

 

Information on data protection

 

The DS-GVO requires that the persons concerned be comprehensively informed about the data processing

be mized. This includes information on the legal basis, recipients of the data, rights

of the persons concerned, such as deletion, information, objection and the right to lodge a complaint

at a supervisory authority.

 

Possibility of objection by those affected

 

Apple has explained to us that every citizen has the opportunity to contact Apple

and to demand pixelation of their own house fronts. information, which contact

things Apple offers and when which cities or regions the Apple vehicles travel to

can be found on the BayLDA website at www.lda.bayern.de/apple-kameratouren.

 

Supervisory authority

 

As the European head office is based in Ireland, the Irish regulator is

responsible for data processing by Apple in Europe. The BayLDA accepts all

complaints from Germany and forwards them to the Irish supervisory authority.

 

"We think it's good that Apple contacted us in good time before the start of these journeys,

received advice on intellectual property law and presented the concept of the recordings by the vehicles

Has. We expect a company like Apple to comply with data protection regulations

the recording of these camera and sensor recordings and the protection of personal

data,” says Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA.

 

 

 

 

Thomas Kranig

president

 

