 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Publication of the 32nd Activity Report 2022
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
presents the results of his work in 2022

Munich, June 14, 2023

"This regulation contains provisions for the protection of natural persons in the processing
processing of personal data and the free movement of such data.” With these words
begins the General Data Protection Regulation, which came into force recently on
fifth year anniversary. The fact that data protection law also includes the free movement of personal
ner data, sometimes gets out of sight in everyday national life - unlike
with the Union legislator, who defines the relationship between data protection and the free movement of data
time, guided by the European data strategy, in numerous standard-setting processes
concretized. The discussion about the European health data space is just one
prominent example. As the representative of the German states in the European data protection
committee, I would like to use my 32nd activity report to
ne to critically examine the regulatory approaches discussed. After all, it is data
protection policy decisions that will be made over the course of the next few years and beyond
will also have consequences for the citizens of Bavaria (article no. 1.1).

Of course, the activity report primarily deals with my task, compliance
the General Data Protection Regulation, the Bavarian Data Protection Act and others
To monitor regulations on data protection at the Bavarian public authorities.
As in previous reporting periods, I continue to pursue a preventative
Approach: Good data protection does not primarily react with harsh sanctions to spectacular
larious data breaches, but tries to guide how to avoid them.

A key tool is the transfer of knowledge. I want as many as possible
enable Bavarian public authorities to process personal data
to design data in a legally compliant manner in their respective area of responsibility. Therefore I have in
In the reporting period, my information technology, which is now probably the leading one in Germany
range of services for the public sector further expanded and updated. Contribution No. 2.1
gives an overview. I would like to use general data protection law as examples
mention contributions no. 2.2 and 2.3, in which Bavarian public authorities learn what
when sending hybrid letters and when using external fonts on websites
must be observed.

Preventive data protection includes advising those involved in legislation
bodies, in particular the state ministries. My involvement in the relevant
driving is in accordance with Art. 16 Para. 3 Bavarian Data Protection Act and § 7
Para. 4 Clause 1 Rules of Procedure of the Bavarian State Government mostly smoothly. I
get involved early on, and my hints will be heard, my suggestions for improvement
gratifyingly often taken up. In the reporting period, however, there was also a

 The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

Publication of the 32nd activity report
BayLfD | press release

 

gene example. This changed with the amendment to the Bavarian University Hospital Act
responsible state ministry my detailed reasons for data protection
largely closed to nita and introduced processing regulations that
Reduce patient rights unilaterally in favor of research interests. The reorganization
appears in view of the current regulation of the European health data
tenraums also as hasty (article no. 7.1).

At the Bavarian police, I have continued the efforts to introduce a
cross-driving research and analysis platform (VeRA). In
my advocacy of a framework for action that is acceptable under the rule of law, I
received support from the Federal Constitutional Court. In a decision on the police
quite a few other federal states, the court took up arguments that I have always had
counter the Bavarian police (article no. 3.1). Supposedly smaller successes could
I use, for example, the acceleration of information procedures and the use of private
father's smartphones by police officers (articles no. 3.2 and 3.4). In the area
of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution I have given the Bavarian State Parliament a moratorium on deletion
ria, which the work of the NSU investigative committee
are intended to make things easier, but raise data protection problems (article no. 3.5). In the
Justice, my supervisory competence does not extend to judicial activities; to
However, I had to check data transmissions from public prosecutors
Youth welfare offices and immigration authorities (Articles No. 4.2 and 4.3). to one
I have a formal notice from the notary due to unauthorized inspection of a land register
objection expressed (article no. 4.5).

As far as the municipal sector is concerned, I have fundamentally decided on the regulatory
opportunities expressed that municipalities are entitled to in data usage statutes (article
No. 5.1). Municipalities cannot create their own data protection law, which as a
simply pushing aside perceived restrictions. You should have some wiggle room though
know, which may be filled in by local law. I have a thorough examination
subjected to the e-ticket system of a municipal transport company (article
No. 5.2). A need for optimization could be identified in some details. The GE-
As a registration authority, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that
information may only be given from the local registration database and an additional
automated retrieval from the central register of foreigners, also for the purpose of administration
simplification must not be set up (Contributions No. 6.2 and 6.3). My advice
activity in the creation of uniform regulations for the use of state
data centers as a processor, I continued to
leads (article no. 6.1).

In the field of social and health administration, many data protection issues are
connection with the COVID-19 pandemic has now been clarified, and in some cases they are also on
lost interest; In this respect, topics were still the symptom query by health
health offices or the vaccination status query for visitors in public
hospitals (amounts no. 7.2 and 7.4). In addition, "corona-free" data protection issues
such as the evaluation of the Bavarian Cancer Register Act or the data protection
Legal responsibility in on-call practices of the Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians
to appreciate Bavaria (articles no. 7.3 and 7.5).

2

 

Publication of the 32nd activity report
BayLfD | press release

 

In the case of tax and financial administration, the function of the data protection supervisory authority
widely assigned to the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
grasslands; this also applies to the Bavarian tax offices. Tax law starts with a special
the regulation to nationwide centralization. To mean new questions of demarcation
However, responsibilities arose in the reporting period due to the introduction of the baye
ric property tax. Regarding the administration of this state tax, I am currently seeing
me as the competent data protection supervisory authority (article no. 8.1). My first experiences
I have presented struggles with exercising this responsibility for some case groups
(Contribution No. 8.2).

In the area of personal data protection, questions arose about the processing of immunity
provide proof of the facility-related compulsory vaccination (Contribution No. 9.1) in the future
related to the COVID-19 pandemic. In two noteworthy individual cases
there were formal complaints about public work that was too keen on documentation
giver; this was about a covert audio recording of the statements of an employee
agreed during a video conference (article no. 9.3) and – once again – for the illegal
galen use of tracking systems in service vehicles (article no. 9.4). A
fundamental contribution (No. 9.5) is dedicated to the fate of official e-mail
Accounts of a deceased professor who is still active at his university after retirement
was.

As far as data protection in schools and colleges is concerned, I have in the reporting period
a revision of the relevant provisions of the Bavarian law on
the education and teaching system, the Bavarian school regulations and the
associated administrative regulations (article no. 10.1). incoming
I have consented to the processing of personal data in the context of the video recording
view of distance examinations at Bavarian universities (article
No. 10.2). A not inconsiderable number of submissions reached me in the course of the census
2022; I have presented the most important questions in an overview article (No. 11.1).

My activity report for the year 2022 gives information on technical and organizational data protection
again a variety of impulses: My range of materials on data protection
Impact assessment – a key tool in the General Data Protection Regulation
the systematic detection and management of risks - has the next highest
construction stage reached (article no. 12.2); In principle, I have agreed to the data protection
technical requirements for so-called penetration tests, which ensure the security of IT
Put systems to the test (article no. 12.1). The unintentional publication
Unfortunately, the processing of personal data on the Internet also occurs with Bavarian public
common places again and again; to return to some as part of my supervisory
I explain error avoidance measures (Article No. 12.4) in the case groups. In
a survey of the Bavarian health authorities on data processing in the
In connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, I was able to gain some new insights, in particular
win others for future consultations (article no. 12.5).

The Data Protection Commission at the Bavarian State Parliament, which, according to Art. 17 Para. 1 Sentence 1
Bavarian Data Protection Act supported my work three times in the reporting period
met. The committee, a Bavarian specialty whose tradition stretches back to the Bavarian

 

3

Publication of the 32nd activity report
BayLfD | press release

 

dating back to the 1978 Data Protection Act, has six members from the middle
of the state parliament and four external members. The one associated with the sessions of the Privacy
Commission-related intensive exchange on current data protection policy such as
data protection issues, about legislative projects, also about measures that I
I always find it enriching that I have met as part of my supervisory work. I
would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Data Protection Commission for their
I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the work that is not in the public
chen.

The 32nd activity report will be available on my as of Wednesday 14 June 2023 at 11:00 am
Homepage https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the “Activity Reports” section for
call ready. The printed version can be obtained under "Order brochures". The
Activity report is free of charge in all versions.

I am available to interested journalists for interviews and inquiries
available. To make an appointment, please contact my office
(Telephone: 089 212672-12, email: vorzimmer@datenschutz-bayern.de).

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
bound by instructions.

4

 

