  

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

Berlin, November 15, 2022

 

 

Meike Kamp as Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

appointed

 

The President of the Berlin House of Representatives, Dennis Buchner, has Meike Kamp as a new representative today

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI) appointed. The lawyer was

was already elected on October 6, 2022 by the Berlin House of Representatives with a large majority. She

takes over the official business with immediate effect.

 

Meike Kamp, BlnBDI: “I am extremely pleased to be able to take office. Together with

In my office I would like to support people in their personality and

to protect basic communication rights and to be a reliable contact person for administration,

science, business and politics in this city. The protection of personal data creates

the necessary freedom to obtain information and make decisions in a self-determined manner

meet. Especially in these times, freedom of information is of great importance. It shows how

State decisions have a direct impact on the social life of each individual.

It is therefore all the more important that the actions of government agencies are comprehensible and understandable for everyone

is transparent.”

 

Meike Kamp succeeds Maja Smoltczyk, whose term of office ends at the end of October 2021

had. Until today's appointment, Volker Brozio had headed the agency on an interim basis. He stays

Deputy of the BlnBDI.

 

Volker Brozio, representative of the BlnBDI: "I congratulate Meike Kamp on being elected and appointed as the new one

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. With Meike Kamp takes over today

proven data protection expert for the office, who has many years of experience, particularly in the area

Telemedia has. I wish her every success for her term of office.”

 

 
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI)

 
 
Telephone: 030 13889-900
Fax: 030 215 50 50

 

 

 
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
Website: www.datenschutz-berlin.de

 

Alt-Moabit 59-61, 10555 Berlin
Entrance: Alt-Moabit 60
 
 
 

Responsible: Dr. Philip Straw
Office: Cristina Vecchi

 



Meike Kamp is a lawyer specializing in data protection, media and freedom of information. She

was already employed at the BlnBDI from 2010 to 2019, most recently as head of Division I B

Business. Kamp had previously worked at the independent state center for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein

the data protection department in the non-public area including telemedia and

telecommunications conducted. Before she was elected to the BlnBDI, Meike Kamp worked for the state of Bremen as

Session representative in the legal and internal affairs committee of the Bundesrat.

 

Press photos of Meike Kamp can be found at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/ueber-uns/presse
be downloaded.
 
 

 

Page 2 of 2

 

