• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Boiler Cover Breakdown  Limited 

Of: 

41  Oldfields  Road,  Sutton,  Surrey, SMl  2NB 

1. 

The Information  Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided  to 

issue  Boiler Cover Breakdown  Limited  ("BCBL")  with  a  monetary 

penalty under section  SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA"). The 

penalty is  in  relation  to a serious contravention  of regulations  21  and 

24 of the  Privacy and  Electronic Communications (EC  Directive) 

Regulations  2003  ("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice  explains the  Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

BCBL,  whose  registered  office  is  given  above  (Companies House 

Registration  Number:  08392566)  is  the organisation  stated  in  this 

notice to have used  a  public electronic communications service for the 

purpose of making  unsolicited  calls for the purposes of direct marketing 

contrary to regulation  21  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies to the  making of unsolicited  calls  for direct 

marketing purposes.  It means that if a company wants to make calls 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

promoting  a product or service to an  individual  who  has a telephone 

number which  is  registered  with the Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"), then that individual  must have notified the company that they 

do  not object to receiving  such  calls from  it. 

5. 

Regulation  21  paragraph  (1)  of PECR  provides that: 

"(1) A person shall neither use,  nor instigate the use of,  a public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making 

unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where-

(a) 

the called line is  that of a subscriber who  has previously 

notified the caller that such calls should not for the time being 

be made on that line;  or 

(b) 

the number allocated to a subscriber in  respect of the called 

line is  one listed in  the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A subscriber shall not permit his line  to  be  used in  contravention 

of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 

where  the number allocated to  the called line has been listed on  the 

register for less  than 28 days preceding that on  which  the call is 

made. 

( 4)  Where  a subscriber who  has caused a number allocated to a line of 

his to  be listed in  the register kept under regulation 26 has notified 

a caller that he does  not,  for the time being,  object to such calls 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

being made on  that line  by that caller,  such calls may be made by 

that caller on  that line,  notwithstanding that the number allocated 

to  that line is  listed in  the said register. 

(5)  Where  a subscriber has given a  caller notification pursuant to 

paragraph ( 4)  in  relation  to a  line of his-

(a)  the subscriber shall be free  to  withdraw that notification at 

any time,  and 

(b)  where such notification is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not 

make such calls on  that line." 

7. 

Regulation  24 of PECR  provides: 

"(1)  Where  a public electronic communications service is  used for the 

transmission  of a communication for direct marketing purposes 

the person  using,  or instigating the use of,  the service shall 

ensure that the following  information is provided with  that 

communication  -

(b) 

in  relation  to a  communication to  which  regulation 21 

[or 21A] (telephone calls) applies,  the particulars 

mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) and,  if the recipient of 

the call so  requests,  those mentioned in paragraph 

(2)(b). 

(2)  The  particulars referred to  in paragraph (1) are -

(a) 

the name of the person; 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(b) 

either the address of the person or a  telephone 

number on  which  he can  be reached free  of charge." 

8. 

Under regulation  26 of PECR,  the Commissioner is  required  to maintain 

a  register of numbers allocated  to subscribers who  have notified them 

that they do  not wish,  for the time being, to receive  unsolicited  calls for 

direct marketing purposes on  those  lines.  The Telephone  Preference 

Service  Limited  ("TPS")  is  a  limited  company which  operates the 

register on  the  Commissioner's behalf.  Businesses who wish  to carry 

out direct marketing  by telephone can  subscribe to the TPS  for a fee 

and  receive  from  them  monthly a  list of numbers on  that register. 

9. 

Section  122(5) of the  Data  Protection  Act 2018  ("DPA18")  defines 

direct marketing as "the communication (by whatever means) of 

advertising or marketing material which  is  directed to particular 

individuals".  This  definition  also  applies for the  purposes of PECR  (see 

regulation  2(2)  PECR  and  paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule  19 of 

the  DPA18). 

10. 

From  1 January 2021, consent in  PECR  has been  defined  by reference 

to the concept of consent in  the UK  GDPR  as  defined  in  section  3(10) 

of the  DPA  2018[1J:  see  regulation  2(1)  of PECR,  as  amended  by Part 3 

of Schedule  3,  paragraph  44 of The  Data  Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019/419.  Article 4(11)  of the UK  GDPR  sets  out the following 

definition:  "'consent' of the data  subject means "any freely given, 

specific,  informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 

wishes  by which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative 

[ll The UK GDPR  is therein defined as  Regulation (EU)  2016/679 of the European Parliament and  of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 ("GDPR") as it forms part of the law of England  and Wales, Scotland and  Northern 
Ireland  by virtue of section 3 of the European  Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

action,  signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data  relating 

to him or her". 

11. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a  living individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

12.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

13.  Section  SSA  of the  DPA  (as applied  to  PECR  cases  by Schedule  1 to 

PECR,  as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a person  with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 

Directive)  Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a) 

knew or ought to have known  that there  was a  risk that 

the contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) 

failed to  take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contravention. 

14.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance under section  SSC  (1) 

of the  DPA  about the issuing  of monetary penalties that has  been 

published  on  the ICO's website.  The  Data  Protection  (Monetary 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty and  Notices)  Regulations  2010 prescribe 

that the amount of any penalty determined  by the  Commissioner must 

not exceed  £500,000. 

15.  PECR  were enacted  to protect the individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the electronic communications sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

16.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

17.  BCBL,  trading  as  Boiler Cover UK,  offers one-off boiler repairs, 

servicing,  boiler installations and  annual  service  plans.  A similar,  but 

separate company,  Boiler Breakdown  Limited  ("BBL"),  shares the  same 

directorship and  has the same  registered  office  as  BCBL. 

18.  BCBL  first came  to the attention  of the Commissioner following  the 

identification  of a  particular Calling  Line  Identifier ("CLI")  which  was 

linked to a number of complaints made to the TPS  and  the 

Commissioner's own  Online  Reporting Tool  ("OLRT")  between January 

and July 2020. 

19.  The  Commissioner sent a Third-Party Information  Notice  ("3PIN") to 

the  Communications Service  Provider ("CSP"), 

( ' ' - " ) ,  for the  CLI  in  question: 

on  8  September 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

2020  requesting  the identity of the  CLI's  subscriber.  The  response, 

which  was  received  on  23  September 2020,  identified the  subscriber as 

BCBL,  and  provided  a list of three other Clls allocated  to  BCBL: 

C)  & 

. The  response  also 

provided  Call  Detail  Records  ("CDR"s)  for the Clls attributed to  BCBL 

between  1 January 2020 and  7 September 2020. 

20.  The  Commissioner conducted  a search  for complaints to the TPS/OLRT 

in  relation  to the Clls disclosed,  and  found  that there had  been  two 

complaints to the TPS  and  12 complaints to the OLRT,  however none  of 

those complaints  named  BCBL  as  the  caller,  rather they identified the 

caller as  "Boiler Breakdown",  or some  similar generic variation,  with 

the calls  seemingly involving the advertising  of boiler cover and 

servicing,  as  well  as  white goods warranties,  and  questions about 

double  glazing  and  free  newspapers. 

21.  The  Commissioner identified the  numbers of the two TPS  complainants 

from  the list of CDRs  provided by - relating  to CLI 

and  TPS  screening  demonstrated that both  had  been  registered  with 

the TPS  for several  years prior to the calls  complained  about. 

22.  The  OLRT  complaints  received  related to calls  from  CLI 

included the following: 

- Tried to claim that I  had to set up boiler insurance  with  them for the 

yearly maintenance.  Recently had a  boiler fitted,  so  thought it was 

something to do  with  that.  They  wanted to set up a  Direct Debit -

thought this was strange as you usually pay on completion of work. 

Looked up  the number on  Google and it said that it was dangerous 

and a scam so  ended the call.  Caller got frustrated that he had been 

kept on  the phone  "for 10 minutes now".  Immediately got a  call 

back from  another number (0208XXXXXXX).  Ignored it...  Worried 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

that I  almost gave my banking details to scammers.  When 

challenged as to  whether they were already my service provider the 

girl admitted this  was a courtesy call.  I  then asked if she  was aware 

of and [ sic] registered with  TPS,  she stated probably so I  explained 

to her the company would be reported for unsolicited call to a 

number registered with  TPS. 

- Person  identified himself as -

tried to persuade my Mum 

(who took the call)  to provide her bank details to give her a refund 

on  her boiler warranty direct debit.  She doesn't have a direct debit 

and it's a  relatively new boiler so she  was  immediately suspicious, 

and the scammer hung up  when she refused to provide her bank 

details ...  My Mum  is 85 years old and in  lockdown,  she  was  anxious 

about this call and wanted me to check if it was  legitimate.  A  quick 

perusal online suggested this number is  a serial offender regarding 

boiler warranty scams. 

-

I  am not sure  whether the name of the company given to me when 

I  called back is  correct,  we  have lived at this address for 5  years, 

this phone call always asks  for Mr XXXX of XXXX they want to 

engage in  conversation about whether I  have my free  newspaper 

delivered,  double glazing etc.  etc.  I  have asked them on  endless 

occasions to remove me from  their list and stop making these calls 

but they do  not stop. 

- A  web  search of this number suggests they are phishing hoping to 

reach  elderly women.  The  call purports to be about boiler serviceing 

[ sic] and one report stated that when  he answered the phone the 

caller hung up.  This accords  with my experience.  I  answered with 

"Hello".  The  voice  asked "Mr XXXX?" and I  replied  "Who  is  calling?" 

at which point the caller hung up,  presumably inferring that a) I  was 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

male and b) I  was  a  bit cautious ...  Yet another interruption 

andteh[sic] need to report it because if these are not reported the 

size of the problem goes unrecognised. 

- Boiler breakdown ...  Called to offer me a renewal on  my boiler cover. 

Seemed polite and helpful; although I've never to my knowledge 

had boiler cover with  this company.  Offered what seemed good 

terms,  so I've given my Bank sort code and account number over 

the phone.  Having just looked up the ring-back phone number on 

Google,  I  see  that they may be scammers of the elderly/ 

vulnerable.  I'm still not sure  whether I've purchased a  legitimate 

service or been scammed out of my savings (I'll have to check my 

bank account tonight). 

23.  The  Commissioner calculated  the number of calls which  had  originated 

from  Clls attributed to  BCBL  between  1 January 2020  and  31  August 

2021  and  established  that there had  been  543,219 calls  made in  total, 

of which  348,724 were  connected.  The  number making the  calls  was 

24.  The  Commissioner conducted  Open-Source  Research  into BCBL  but was 

unable to identify a website which  could  be  linked to either BCBL  or its 

trading  name,  Boiler Cover UK. 

25.  The  Commissioner sent an  initial  investigation  letter to BCBL at its 

registered  office  address on  1 October 2020. 

26.  A response  was  received  on  19 October 2020  in  which  BCBL confirmed 

its trading  name was  Boiler Cover UK  and  that the Clls it used  were: 

& 

.  In response to enquiries 

about the relationship  between the various companies,  BCBL explained 

that "Boiler Cover Breakdown  trades as Boiler Cover UK.  Boiler 

Breakdown Limited is  our company and has the same business model 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

outlined above.  UK Boiler Cover is  our company,  but we  do  not trade 

from  this".  It was disputed that the  complaints made  related  to  BCBL. 

In addition  BCBL explained "We re-validate a set number of customers 

each day.  This  means a senior member of staff in  our admin team  will 

call a random selection of customers to ensure the cover still meets 

their needs,  the correct information has been left with  the customer 

and that the details  we  hold are accurate." 

27.  Further enquiries were  sent to BCBL  on  25  November 2020,  including  a 

request for confirmation  as  to which  Clls were  allocated  to which 

company. 

28. 

In a  response  dated  2  December 2020  BCBL  repeated  the information 

provided  on  19 October 2020 with  regard  to Clls allocated to  BCBL, 

and  advised  that the Communication  Service  Provider (CSP)  for those 

numbers was 

that CLI 

(" 

").  It confirmed 

,  which  featured  in  the complaints,  was allocated 

to  BBL  alongside two other Clls: 

& 

.  BCBL 

was  unable to provide  details of call  volumes between  1 January 2020 

and  31  August 2020. 

29. 

In view  of conflicting  responses  from  BCBL and -

regarding 

allocation  of CLI 

, the Commissioner asked -

on  19 

November 2020 for evidence of allocation.  In response, -

provided  an  invoice dated  4  September 2020  demonstrating the 

number was allocated  to  Boiler Cover UK  - the trading  name of BCBL. 

30.  A  3PIN  was sent to 

on  7  December 2020  regarding the 

identity of the subscriber to the following  Clls: 

& 

and  requesting  CDRs.  A  response  was 

received  on  8 January 2021  including CDRs  which  showed  the  CLI 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

was  allocated  to BBL.  The  other two numbers were  not 

provided  by 

. In  addition, 

confirmed  Clls 

within the  range•••••■ to 

and  a single CLI 

were  also  allocated to  BBL. 

31.  A further 3PIN  was  sent to 

on  16 February 2021 

requesting  additional  CDRs  for CLI 

,  along  with 

confirmation that the CDRs  included  all  calls  made by numbers 

allocated  to  BBL  as  detailed  in  its previous  response  of 8 January 2021. 

responded  on  12 April  2021  providing the requested 

information. 

32.  The  CDRs  provided  by 

were  screened  against the TPS 

register and  showed that between January to August 2020  BCBL  made 

(using the CLI 

allocated  by 

to BBL) 

13,632 calls  of which  9,075  (67%) were to TPS  registered  individuals. 

33.  Further queries were  sent to  BCBL  on  6 April  2021, to which  a  response 

was  received  on  13 April  2021.  In reply to queries about how calls  are 

answered,  BCBL  replied:  "This called line  references Boiler Breakdown. 

Hence  when  the number is  called the automated system states  "Thank 

you for calling Boiler Breakdown".  BCBL  advised  that it has  a website: 

https://www.boilercover.uk.com/ and  that the source  of data they used 

to promote their business was "Obtained from  customers they have an 

existing service cover with us ... A  yearly renewal letter is sent.  To 

ensure best practice we  provide customers with a courtesy call before 

the renewal date to ensure they are happy to  with  the cover for a 

further year".  BCBL went onto state that it did  not purchase  data from 

third  parties and  in  answer to whether it screened  calls  against the TPS 

it answered "N/A".  With  regard  to a question  regarding  policies and 

procedures regarding  contact with  customers and their responsibilities 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

under PECR,  BCBL  state "These  customers have had cover with us.  We 

are calling them  to  ensure their boiler/system remains protected and 

we  are simply giving them a courtesy call to ensure they are satisfied. 

If they express an objection  to  being contacted going forward,  the 

renewal is  cancelled,  and the customer is  not contacted again." 

34.  Whilst the http web  address  provided  by BCBL does  show  a website,  an 

internet search  using  Google  on  the website address for 

www.boilercover.uk.com  does not bring  up this website on  the first 4 

pages  of Google.  The  only reference to  Boiler Cover UK  links to a 

separate  unrelated  company. 

35.  A final  end  of investigation  letter was  sent to BCBL  on  20  April  2021 

explaining that the Commissioner had  gathered the necessary evidence 

and  would  determine whether any regulatory action  would  be  taken 

against BCBL. 

36.  On  the same  date,  20  April  2021, the Commissioner received  a report 

from  the  Financial  Conduct Authority ("FCA")  regarding  a complaint it 

had  received  about a call  made on  27  March  2021  to an  individual  from 

CLI 

(allocated to  BBL  but used  by BCBL).  The  name of 

the company reported  was  BBL.  The  complainant reported  that direct 

debits had  been  taken  over a period  of three years for boiler cover, 

when  the complainant stated  she  had  no cover with  this company 

(having  already had  a policy with  a different company),  had  never had 

contact with the  company nor received  any paperwork. 

37. 

In respect of the  9,075  unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  made by BCBL 

to TPS  numbers,  BCBL  has to date been  unable to evidence that the 

subscribers  receiving  them  had  not for the time being  objected to 

receiving  its direct marketing  calls. 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

38.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied that the 9,075 calls  were  all  made for the 

purposes of direct marketing  as  defined  by section  122(5) DPA18. 

39.  The  Commissioner has  made the above findings of fact on  the 

balance  of probabilities. 

40.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether those facts  constitute a 

contravention  of regulations  21  and  24  of PECR  by BCBL and,  if so, 

whether the conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

The contravention 

41.  The  Commissioner finds that BCBL contravened  regulations  21  and  24 

of PECR. 

42.  The  Commissioner finds that the contravention  was  as  follows: 

43.  Between  1 January 2020 and  31  August 2020,  using  Clls allocated to 

BBL  (specifically 

),  BCBL  used  a public 

telecommunications service  for the purposes of making 9,075 

unsolicited  calls for direct marketing  purposes to subscribers where the 

number allocated  to the subscriber in  respect of the called  line was  a 

number listed  on  the register of numbers kept by the  Commissioner in 

accordance with  regulation  26,  contrary to regulation  21(l)(b) of PECR. 

44.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  for the  purposes  of regulation  21  that 

these 9,075 unsolicited  direct marketing  calls were  made to subscribers 

who had  registered  with the TPS  at least 28  days prior to receiving the 

calls,  and  who for the  purposes  of regulation  21( 4)  had  not notified 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

BCBL that they did  not, for the time being,  object to receiving  such 

calls. 

45.  For such  notification to be  valid  under regulation  21(4), the individual 

must have taken  a clear and  positive  action  to override their TPS 

registration  and  indicate their willingness to receive  marketing  calls 

from  the company.  The  notification  should  reflect the individual's 

choice  about whether or not they are  willing  to receive  marketing  calls. 

Therefore, where signing  up to use  a product or service  is  conditional 

upon  receiving  marketing  calls,  companies will  need  to demonstrate 

how this constitutes a clear and  positive notification  of the individual's 

willingness to receive  such  calls. 

46.  The  notification  must clearly  indicate the individual's willingness to 

receive  marketing  calls  specifically.  Companies cannot rely on 

individuals opting  in  to marketing  communications generally,  unless  it 

is  clear that this will  include telephone calls. 

47.  Further, the notification  must demonstrate the individual's willingness 

to receive  marketing  calls  from  that company specifically.  Notifications 

will  not be  valid  for the  purposes  of regulation  21(4)  if individuals are 

asked  to agree to receive  marketing from "similar organisations", 

"partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

48.  There  is  no  evidence to suggest that BCBL were  carrying  out TPS 

checks  on  data.  Indeed, when  asked  whether it screened  data  against 

the TPS  register,  BCBL's  response  was "N/ A".  Enquiries by the 

Commissioner with the TPS  have confirmed that no TPS  licence  has 

been  provided to BCBL  or any of the other associated  companies.  Nor 

is there any explanation  provided  for why Clls which  were  in  use  by 

BCBL at the material time were  used  to make 9,075  unsolicited  calls to 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

individuals who  had  been  registered  with  the TPS  for not less than  28 

days. 

49.  BCBL  has  been  unable to provide any evidence that the  subscribers 

who  received  these calls  had  notified  BCBL that they did  not, for the 

time  being,  object to such  calls.  BCBL  stated that it did  not purchase 

data  from  third  parties,  and  explained  in  relation  to its 452 active 

clients:  "These  customers have had cover with us.  We  are calling  them 

to ensure their boiler/system remains protected and we  are simply 

giving them a courtesy call to ensure they are satisfied.  If they express 

an objection to being contacted going forward,  the renewal is 

cancelled,  and the customer is  not contacted again." Given  that BCBL 

have 452 active clients it is  not clear why,  between  January and  August 

2020,  BCBL  made  13,632 calls  of which  9,075  were to TPS  registered 

individuals. 

50.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that there is  evidence of 9,075 

unsolicited  direct marketing calls  being  made by BCBL to subscribers 

who  had  been  registered  with the TPS  for not less than  28  days,  and 

who  had  not previously notified  BCBL that they did  not object to 

receiving  such  calls. 

51. 

In addition,  BCBL  permitted  its  lines (specifically CLI 

)  to 

be  used  by BBL,  contrary to regulation  21(2)  of PECR,  resulting  in 

348,724 connected  calls  between January and  August 2020. 

52.  Further and  in  relation  to live calls  made  by BCBL,  as  the complaints 

indicate,  BCBL failed,  as  required  by regulation  24  of PECR,  to provide 

the recipient of the calls from  CLI 

the particulars 

specified  at regulation  24(2)  of PECR  in  that there  is  evidence that the 

calls  and  automated  message from  that CLI  identified the caller as 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"Boiler Breakdown".  This  is  different to the trading  style  Boiler Cover 

UK  which  BCBL  use.  Contrary to information  provided to the 

Commissioner by BCBL  with  regard  to which  Clls were  allocated  to 

which  companies,  BBL  is  actually the subscriber of this CLI  which 

creates a confusing  picture of which  organisation  is  using  which  lines to 

call  individuals and  makes it difficult for individuals to be  clear about 

who  is  calling  them.  The  name used  is  sufficiently generic that it could 

apply to both  companies,  and  searches for a website  demonstrate that 

it is  difficult for individuals to locate the correct organisation  without 

knowing  the exact http address. 

53.  The  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether the conditions 

under section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

54.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the contravention  identified 

above was  serious.  This  is  because there have  been  multiple breaches 

of regulations  21  and  24  by BCBL arising  from  the organisation's 

activities between  1 January 2020 and  31  August 2020,  and  this led  to 

9,075  unsolicited  direct marketing  calls  being  made to subscribers who 

were  registered  with  the TPS  and  who  had  not notified  BCBL that they 

were willing  to receive  such  calls.  This equates to 67% of calls  made by 

BCBL.  Furthermore,  BCBL allowed  its lines to be  used  by BBL to make 

significant numbers of unsolicited  live  calls to individuals who were 

registered  with the TPS  and  who  had  not provided  notification that they 

did  not object to receiving  such  calls. 

55.  A total  of 14 complaints were  received  about the organisation's 

activities over the relevant period,  with the complaints suggesting  that 

BCBL  provided  inaccurate information  as  to its identity.  BCBL  alleged 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

other similar companies and  competitors are "proactively trading  with 

deliberate attempt to confuse matters" and  that these  account for 

some  of the  complaints.  However the  Commissioner has  seen  no 

evidence to support this theory,  and  in  fact the evidence  supports that 

all  of the complaints can  be  traced  back to Clls used  by BCBL.  BCBL 

also  points to the low  call/complaint ratio  as  evidence of a lack of 

seriousness,  but the Commissioner places  little or no weight on  this 

argument as  the lack of clarity as  to the identity of the  calling 

organisation  would  have  made it difficult for individuals to complain. 

56.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (a)  from 

section  SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

57.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above was  deliberate. 

58.  The  Commissioner considers  that in  this case  BCBL  did  deliberately 

contravene  regulations  21  and  24  of PECR.  It is  noted that there is 

sufficient evidence to suggest that BCBL  conducted  a large  number of 

unsolicited  direct marketing calls to TPS-registered  individuals,  and 

made no  apparent effort to establish  that those  individuals did  not 

object to receiving  such  calls.  The  Commissioner is  particularly 

concerned  that the set-up of the  organisations,  alongside apparent use 

of a different company name  during  its calls  and  automated  message, 

suggests that BCBL was  deliberately attempting to deceive  individuals 

as  to its identity. As  BCBL  and  BBL  have a common  directorship, the 

directors would  have  known  which  of their organisations was  allocated 

which  Clls, and  which  organisation  was  using  which  numbers.  That 

there  is  a clear division  of calling  numbers,  having  essentially been 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

'swapped' in  their entirety by the two companies,  is  in  the 

Commissioner's view,  indicative of a business  model  deliberately 

conceived. 

59.  For the above  reasons,  the Commissioner is  satisfied  that this breach 

was  deliberate. 

60.  Further and  in  the alternative, the Commissioner has gone  on  to 

consider whether the  contravention  identified  above was  negligent. 

This  consideration  comprises two elements: 

61.  Firstly,  he  has  considered  whether BCBL  knew  or ought reasonably to 

have  known  that there was  a risk that this contravention  would  occur. 

This  is  not a high  bar,  and  he  is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

62.  The  Commissioner has  published  detailed  guidance for companies 

carrying  out marketing  explaining their legal  requirements under PECR. 

This  guidance  explains the  circumstances  under which  organisations 

are  able to carry out marketing  over the phone,  by text,  by email,  by 

post or by fax.  Specifically,  it states that live calls  must not be  made to 

any subscriber registered  with the TPS,  unless the subscriber has 

specifically notified the  company that they do  not object to receiving 

such  calls.  In  case  organisations remain  unclear on  their obligations, 

the ICO  operates a telephone  helpline.  ICO  communications about 

previous enforcement action  where  businesses  have  not complied  with 

PECR  are  also  readily available 

63.  Standard  practice of the TPS  is to contact the organisation  making the 

calls  on  each  occasion  a complaint is  made.  It is therefore reasonable 

to believe that BCBL,  as  subscriber to the  CLI  detailed  in  the 

complaints,  would  have received  a notification from  the TPS  for each  of 

the complaints being  made  in  this case.  That there were two 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

complaints  made to the TPS  alone  over the period  of the contravention 

should  have  made  BCBL  aware of the risk that such  contraventions 

may occur and  were  indeed  occurring. 

64. 

It is  therefore reasonable to suppose that BCBL  should  have  been 

aware  of its responsibilities  in  this area. 

65.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on  to consider whether BCBL 

failed  to take  reasonable  steps to prevent the contravention.  Again,  he 

is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

66.  Reasonable  steps in  these  circumstances  may have included  conducting 

thorough TPS  checks  on  all  of the data  it was to use  for its direct 

marketing campaigns;  or at least obtaining  and  recording  evidence of 

notification  from  those TPS-registered  individuals whom  it intended to 

contact prior to engaging  in  its direct marketing calls.  In respect of 

those calls  BCBL  could  have  made  it clear both  in  its live  calls  and 

automated  message the correct identity of the calling  organisation. 

Furthermore, the directors of BCBL  and  BBL could  have ensured that 

each  organisation  was  using  Clls allocated to it for the purposes  of 

making direct marketing  calls.  Where  data  is  purchased  from  third 

parties, thorough  due diligence could  have  been  undertaken  alongside 

contractual  arrangements to ensure the veracity of the purchased  data. 

67.  Given  the volume of calls  in  contravention  of Regulation  21(1)  PECR, 

and  the volume of connected  calls  as  a result of allowing  its lines to be 

used  by BBL  in  contravention  of regulation  21(2)  PECR,  it is  clear that 

BCBL failed  to take those  reasonable  steps.  BCBL  concedes  it did  not 

itself undertake checks  of the TPS  register.  Had  sufficient checks  been 

undertaken, these would  have  revealed  that the data was  not 

compliant.  Indeed,  in  BCBL's  representations  it accepted  that it was 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"unsure over who  had been contacted for what purpose under what 

lawful basis and whether we  had any license  to contact those  who  had 

complained to understand better what we  could do  to support them".  A 

CLI  was  presented  which,  whilst being  a legitimate CLI,  was  not one 

which  would  allow the subscriber to identify the  caller either by ringing 

the number back and  speaking  to an  operative,  listening to a recorded 

message or by a search  on  the internet.  Furthermore,  a complaint was 

received  by the  FCA  relating  to an  unsolicited  call  to an  individual  on  27 

March  2021  from  CLI 

- the  number allocated  to  BBL  but 

used  by BCBL.  This would  suggest that the organisations did  not alter 

their business model,  and  continued  to make calls  in  contravention  of 

PECR,  despite awareness of the  Commissioner's ongoing  investigation 

into concerns about the  organisation's compliance with  PECR. 

68.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 
impose 

69.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  aggravating 

features of this case: 

•  The  Commissioner  is  concerned  by  evidence  that  BCBL 

targeted 

vulnerable individuals.  It is  accepted  by BCBL  in  its representations that 

80%  of call  recipients  are  elderly  and  many  are  'vulnerable'.  It is  also 

apparent that due to the volume of calls they were  persistent in  nature. 

•  BCBL  acted  deliberately  in  contravention  of  PECR  with  a  view  to 

generating  an  increase  in  profit and  turnover. 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  BCBL failed  to follow  ICO Guidance or seek support where  necessary. 

•  BCBL's  business  model  was  purposefully  opaque  such  that  individuals 

were  unable  to  identify which  organisation  was  calling  them,  making  it 

difficult to object to calls  or complain. 

•  The  Commissioner notes that reviews  of the  organisation  identify  BCBL 

as  operating  scam  calls. 

70.  The  Commissioner notes that BCBL  has  indicated  a willingness to be 

compliant,  but he  does not consider that this constitutes mitigation for 

the contravention  which  took place.  Indeed  evidence  suggests that 

BCBL  continued  to make calls  leading to complaints  up to  March  2021. 

Further,  whilst BCBL  has  informed the Commissioner in 

representations that it has temporarily ceased  making  marketing calls 

pending  the outcome of this matter, and  has  produced  dralt policies 

and  processes designed to improve the business  practices, the 

Commissioner notes that BCBL  has  been  reactive  in  its approach  to 

compliance,  and  only seems to make changes  in  its practices in  order 

to comply with the law when  failings  are  discovered,  and  changes  are 

required,  by a regulator.  Had  such  measures been  implemented  at the 

outset, then this contravention  may have  been  averted. 

71.  For the reasons  explained  above,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that the 

conditions from  section  55A(l)  DPA  have been  met in  this case.  He  is 

also  satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  55B  have  been 

complied  with. 

72.  The  latter has  included  issuing  a  Notice of Intent on  6  May  2022,  in 

which  the Commissioner set out his  preliminary thinking  and  invited 

BCBL to make representations  in  respect of this matter.  In  reaching  his 

final  view, the Commissioner has taken  into account the 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

representations  and  additional  documents and  financial  information 

provided  by BCBL. 

73.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty 

in  this case. 

74.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether,  in  the circumstances,  he 

should  exercise  his  discretion  so  as  to issue  a monetary penalty. 

75.  The  Commissioner has  considered  the likely impact of a monetary 

penalty on  BCBL.  He  has  decided  on  the information that is  available to 

him that a penalty remains the  appropriate course  of action  in  the 

circumstances of the case. 

76.  The  Commissioner's underlying objective in  imposing  a monetary 

penalty notice is to promote compliance with  PECR.  The  making  of 

unsolicited  direct marketing calls  is  a matter of significant public 

concern.  A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general 

encouragement towards compliance with the  law,  or at least as  a 

deterrent against non-compliance,  on  the part of all  persons running 

businesses currently engaging  in  these  practices.  This  is  an  opportunity 

to reinforce the need  for businesses to ensure that they are  only 

telephoning  consumers who are  not registered  with  the TPS  and/or 

specifically indicate that they do  not object to receiving these calls. 

The amount of the penalty 

77.  Taking  into account all  of the  above,  the Commissioner has  decided 

that a penalty in  the sum  of £120,000.00 (One hundred and 
twenty thousand pounds)  is  reasonable  and  proportionate given  the 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

particular facts of the  case  and  the underlying  objective in  imposing the 

penalty. 

Conclusion 

78.  The  monetary penalty must be  paid  to the  Commissioner's office  by 
BACS  transfer or cheque  by 23 September 2022 at the  latest.  The 

monetary penalty is  not kept by the Commissioner but will  be  paid  into 

the Consolidated  Fund  which  is  the Government's general  bank account 

at the  Bank of England. 

79. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 
22 September 2022 the Commissioner will  reduce the  monetary 
penalty by 20% to £96,000.00 (Ninety six thousand pounds). 
However,  you  should  be  aware that the early payment discount is  not 

available  if you  decide to exercise  your right of appeal. 

80.  There  is  a right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a) the  imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified  in  the monetary penalty 

notice. 

81.  Any notice of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

82. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

23 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

83.  The  Commissioner will  not take action  to enforce a monetary penalty 

unless: 

•  the  period  specified  within the  notice within  which  a monetary 

penalty must be  paid  has expired  and  all  or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

•  the  period  for appealing  against the monetary penalty and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

84. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

recoverable  by Order of the  County Court or the  High  Court.  In 

Scotland, the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the same  manner as 

an  extract registered  decree arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution 

issued  by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

Dated  the  24th day of August 2022 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

24 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person 

upon  whom  a monetary penalty notice  has  been  served  a right of 

appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') 

against the notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to the  extent that the notice  involved  an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the Commissioner, that she  ought to have exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made by the Commissioner.  In any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice of appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

25 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice  of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has extended the time for complying  with this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your name and  address/name and  address  of your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address where documents may be  sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision  to which  the proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you  are  seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must provide with the notice  of appeal  a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice or variation  notice; 

h) 

if you  have exceeded  the time  limit mentioned  above the 

notice of appeal  must include a request for an  extension  of time 

26 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and  the  reason  why the notice of appeal  was  not provided  in 

time. 

5. 

Before  deciding  whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser.  At the hearing  of an  appeal  a  party 

may conduct his case  himself or may be  represented  by any person 

whom  he  may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule 6  to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

27 

