THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

July 19, 2018

 

 

 

 
 

  First aid for doctors!

First aid FAQ for medical practices on the implementation of the GDPR

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI)

Answer today to the most urgent questions about the implementation of the basic data protection

order in medical practices.

 

Especially the everyday work in the doctor's office raises due to the regular handling

with the particularly sensitive health data of the patients

Questions on. In particular, there is a need for information among resident doctors

high. In the past, the existing uncertainty was already counteracted with training

of the LfDI, among other things, in the associations of statutory health insurance physicians and, of course, in

management practice of his company.

Nevertheless, questions arise again and again, especially in daily implementation;

in particular the question of the need for declarations of consent or

Information notices drive the practice. For these cases, the present question

ge answer catalog is a first aid for medical practices, but also orientation for

patients.

This is a first draft for a dynamic document that

be supplemented in the future by further questions from the consulting practice of the LfDI

the will. In this way, a comprehensive practical aid for the health care

arise in order to prevent undesirable developments in practice.

 

Königstrasse 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

- 2 -

So keep checking back on our website! You will find the

First Aid FAQs at:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/faq-datenschutz-in-der-arztpraxis/

 
Also in other areas such as freedom of information, care or association
FAQs have already been created or are being planned. You can find these under
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/faqs/
 
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0. Further

Information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.

 

