 

 

 

 

 

     

Athens, 09-10-2018
 

 

 

PRINCIPLE OF DATA PROTECTION
 
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 
 

 

 

     

Prot. No.: G/EX/7980/09-10-2018
  

 

 

 

 

A P O F A S H A . 60/2018
 

    

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, to a regular meeting at its headquarters on 24-04-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2018, following the meetings of 5-12-2017 and 27-02-2018, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

examine the case referred to in the present history. They were represented by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President of the Authority, Constantos Menoudakos and the regular members of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Spyron Vlachopoulos, Constant Lambrinoudakis, as
 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur,
 

Charalambos Anthopoulos and Eleni Martsoukou, also as rapporteur. The regular ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

member of the Authority Constantos Christodoulou and Antonios Symvonis and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

substitutes for them Georgios Nouskalis and Panagiotis Rontogiannis, if any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they were summoned only in writing, they did not attend due to obstruction. At
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

session, without the right to vote, were also present, by order of the President, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Georgios Rousopoulos, expert scientist – auditor, as assistant rapporteur, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative affairs department, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secretary.
 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A number of complaints have been submitted to the Authority regarding undesirables
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone calls made with human intervention and purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the promotion of products or services
 

 

 

 

 

her
 

let's company WIND HELLAS
 

 

 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS SA (hereinafter referred to as Wind or our controller).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, in the past, examined corresponding complaints against the two
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsible for processing and issued the no. 66/2016 Decision. With the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This decision the Authority, examining forty-six (46) related complaints about
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel.: 210-6475600, Fax: 210-6475628, contact@dpa.gr, www.dpa.gr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls made during the period December 2011 – June
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2016, found violations of Article 11 of Law 3471/2006 and Article 13
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Law 2472/1997 in thirty-seven (37) of these complaints and imposed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a fine of twenty eight thousand (28,000) Euros1. Furthermore, by Decision n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority, after taking into account the difficulty of implementing the provision of Article 11 of Law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3471/2006, due to the non-existence of a consolidated register, addressed a recommendation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind to appropriately adapt the procedures it follows with regard to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making telephone calls for the purpose of promoting products and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services, recording essentially
 

 

 

total
 

 

of the conditions
 

 

legality of the said processing of personal data.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

After issuing the above Decision, the Authority continued to accept
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints regarding receiving phone calls to promote products or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Wind services to telephone numbers of subscribers where they have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

object, in general, through the register of article 11 of Law 3471/2006,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

especially to our controller.
  

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority has read these latest complaints, as well as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints submitted shortly before the issuance of the no. 66/2016
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Decision and therefore were not examined with said Decision, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind, in order for the company to carry out the required investigative actions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of complaints in order to deal with them and improve the procedures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her. Specifically, the Authority with no. prot. C/EX/6160/06-10-2016 document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notified Wind of thirteen (13) complaints, with the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/7583/22-11-2016 document communicated to Wind another eight (8)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints and with the no. prot. C/EX/2858/05-04-2017 her document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notified Wind of another thirty-one (31) complaints.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Due to the large number of complaints against the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, which continued even after the last Authority's document to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this, the Authority carried out an on-site inspection at Wind regarding the issue
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making phone calls for the purpose of promoting products
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and services, according to article 19 par. h) of Law 2472/1997. The control
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was carried out on the one hand at the facilities of the company "B.F.S. PROMOTION
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCIAL SERVICES - CALL CENTER SERVICES -
                                                           

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 In said Decision, a complaint for sending unsolicited e-mail was also examined
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

message (SMS)
 

 

 

2
 

ADVISORS
 

BUSINESS
 

-
 

INSURERS
 

ADVISORS
 

SOLE INDIVIDUAL LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY" (hereinafter BFS),
 

 

 

 

 

 

partner of Wind for the aforementioned purpose, at the address Leoforos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vouliagmenis 270A P.O. 17343 on 26-06-2017 and on the other hand at the premises
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Wind at 106 Athinon St., in Athens on 06-29-2017, by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees of the Auditors Department of the Secretary of the Roussopoulos Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Georgios and Efrosyne Siougle (hereinafter "control group"), after the no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. C/EX/4849/23-06-2017 and C/EX/4851/23-06-2017 corresponding orders of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President of the Authority.
  

 

 

During and after the on-site checks they were collected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the control group a series of digital and printed persuasives. Also, the team
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

audit drew up the minutes of the two audits in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responses/clarifications of the audited, as well as her on-site observations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control group. Draft minutes were sent to the two companies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e-mail messages (07-07-2017 for BFS, 28/07/2017 for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind) while the companies sent their comments, by e-mail, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17/7/2017 and 31/8/2017 respectively. The minutes were then finalized
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(No. prot C/EX/5517/20-07-2017 document of the Authority for BFS and under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. prot C/EX/7378/16-10-2017 document of the Authority for Wind).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subsequently, the audit team requested from Wind with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/6377/04-09-2017 document of the Authority specific data for all
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls made on its behalf for the purpose of promotion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

products and services, for each of its external partners to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this purpose. Wind provided an item with the above no. prot. C/EIS/7005/29-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

09-2017 her document. In this document it is stated that the above-mentioned purpose of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority only applies to calls that have arisen from its partners
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to whom they provide a specific start/beginning within a specific context
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

energy. On the other hand, this does not include the presentation of subpoenas
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which have been carried out by its partners who act as independents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

businesses, calling prospective subscribers that Wind has not accepted.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, the audit team requested on 17/10/2017, by email
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by mail, the complete record of Wind subscribers who have consented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in receiving advertising phone calls. Wind provided these data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the no. prot. C/EIS/7732/27-10-2017 her document.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

At the same time, the Authority requested in writing from the service providers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone communication let them grant her copies of the register data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 11 of Law 3471/2006 that they observe for their subscribers (hereinafter
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

opt-out registries). With these documents, he pointed out that it is necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information on the date of registration in the register, at least for a few days
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after 10-31-2016 and that in case the information of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

date of registration for earlier registrations (not as regards declarations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of subscribers during the first years of operation of the registry) the providers can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mark it with an indicative date of their choice. Ask also, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in case subscribers have been deleted from the register, to grant them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

record with their deletion dates. Providers provided this information,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing and in electronic form.
 

 

 

 

 

Following these, the audit team studied the minutes in conjunction with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persuasive evidence and the relevant documents, drew up and submitted to the Authority the no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prot. C/EIS/8041/09-11-2017 audit finding, in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

key findings of the audit team regarding the subject of the audit
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as defined in section III of the entry and such
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

emerged after the analysis of the evidence. The analysis methodology of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

arguments as well as the results of the analysis are presented in detail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in annexes A, B and C of the portal. Also, they are quoted in the conclusion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in detail the audit methodology (section II), the evidence of the audit, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fifty-two (52) complaints forwarded to Wind prior to their conduct
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of on-site inspections, twenty-eight (28) related complaints notified to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind mass with the conclusion of the audit as well as the documents he sent and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

received by the Authority from the providers for obtaining copies of its data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the register of article 11 of Law 3471/2006 that they maintain for their subscribers.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The methodology with which they were examined is also described in detail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone calls made for promotional purposes for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind account, within the first half of 2017. Specifically, for each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A call from those granted by Wind was examined if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was made to the phone number that was registered to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

register of the article 11 of the subscriber's provider without being qualified
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent to receive promotional telephone calls from Wind and, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

affirmative case, it was checked how much time has passed since the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 

date of registration
 

 

of the number in the register until date a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making the call.
  

 

 

In the conclusion, special mention is also made of the complaints under item d.11
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to d.31 and e.1 to e.28 (based on the numbering of the door). The complaints
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these relate to calls such as – based on the allegations of the complainants –
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were carried out within the first half of 2017. In this way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it became possible to search and compare with the above-mentioned elements a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls that have arisen from and made by partners
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on behalf of Wind for the purpose of promoting products and services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Wind.
 

 

The findings of the audit, as described in detail in the finding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

thereof, are summarized as follows:
 

 

 

 

1) It was found that numerous calls were made to telephone numbers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

numbers registered in the "opt-out" registers for which there was no special
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent (finding no. 1). The purpose of the calls was to promote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind products and services. Wind has a process to receive them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on some "opt-out" registers only from the "big" providers, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consolidate and send them to its partners. The procedure is admissible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of improvement as it was found that the register was not received from the Omninet company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and that the obligation to have taken into account all of them is not always satisfied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

declarations of inclusion in the register that have been submitted during the previous 30
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

days from making a call.
 

 

 

 

 

 

Despite the relatively correct procedure, in its interval
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1st
 

semester of 2017
 

 

 

were carried out (proven and based on the data provided by the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submitted to the Authority and collected during the audit) 140,395
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal calls (out of a total of 33,781,973 calls).
  

 

 

 

 

 

Also, it is clear that the companies cooperating with Wind have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

make other calls to advertise Wind services while the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

records of the calls in question have not been submitted to the Authority. This
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this is proven by the assignment of making calls by the cooperating companies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

companies (first level) to other cooperating companies (second level),
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as from the fact that while in many of the cases of complaints on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the call records reported by the complainants are complete, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls are missing from call logs. Id as in the case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

of BFS, the names of seven active employees are mentioned in the complaint and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

indeed for calls that have been carried out with concealment according to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainants, while in eight other cases of calls they are reported by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reporting call numbers that are proven to belong to its partners
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind.
 

2) It was established that the correct procedure was not followed for the satisfaction of the special
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

feedback from invited subscribers (finding no. 2). Specifically, if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Wind maintained a special objection authority, it does not have a procedure to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receives from its partners the specific feedback requests addressed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to them but concern calls made on behalf of Wind.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, special objections are sent individually and not every month,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

simultaneously with the consolidated list of numbers to be deleted.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3) It was found that the invited subscribers were not properly updated (finding under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. 3), as in the scenarios regarding its content let's not communicate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information on the identity of the company's representative is included
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account from which the call is made nor an update about the feature
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising the right of access. In addition, in case the called
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if you are a subscriber of another provider, beyond the right of objection that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is registered, the subscriber is informed that he has the obligation to address
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to his provider for his entry in the Article 11 Register and not that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he just has the option to address the provider as well..
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4) It was established that there is no proper procedure for observing consents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(finding no. 4), because the observed data only concern subscribers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Wind, but mainly because there is no procedure for sending the register
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of consents to the cooperating companies, with the result that yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is doubtful whether the register is used to draw up the list of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dialing numbers.
 

 

5) Deficiencies in technical and organizational measures for its security were found
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let's edit. In particular, it was found that the documents are not properly followed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recording of calls made on behalf of Wind by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

partner company BFS (finding no. 5) and that there are insufficient
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control measures of cooperating companies (finding no. 6).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6) It was established during the audit that the creation of the lists of those to be called
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of subscribers is based on data from old subscribers and old lists,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6
 

the observations are observed by the cooperating company BFS, without having been checked
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from Wind (finding no. 7).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

7) It was found that several calls, while being answered by the called party, were not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are routed to an operator (finding #8).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Then, WIND HELLAS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SA was called
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

but, with the no. prot. C/EX/8300/17-11-2017 document of the Authority, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hearing before it at the session of 5-12-2017, as our data controller,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to give further clarifications and express her views on them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

findings of the mouth. With the above summons document, the Authority complied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the person in charge of processing the above-mentioned audit finding as well as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

those mentioned in the finding under item e1 to e28 complaints that are not hers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were sent before the audit was carried out. Further, with the above document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the call the Authority read to Wind and the records of its results
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control over the lists of calls made
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(like these
 

 

described in Appendix A.3 of the Handbook).
  

 

 

 

 

 

They attended the Authority's meeting on 5-12-2017 as its representatives
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind oi Mar na Stavropoulou, lawyer and director of the regulatory department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Stefan a Plota, lawyer. During the meeting the representatives of Wind
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they supported the adjournment of the debate which they had also submitted in writing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(with prot. no. G/EIS/8469/24-11-2017). The project was rejected by the Authority and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after the representatives of the company presented their views orally, they received
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deadline and filed it with no. prot. C/EIS/528/22-01-2018 memo to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which are briefly mentioned by the following:
 

 

 

 

 

With respect to finding 1, Wind argues that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls made per month with the corresponding fees each month and that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it would not be possible to carry out this control in such a short time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interval. He points out that only 0.4% of the calls were "in violation". Also,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considered that as the collaborating companies define the rules and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process calls, these are responsible for our processing until the moment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

register the subscriber's details in its system. It also supports this no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contradicts the Authority's decision 66/2016. Also, Wind
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

confirms that the calls given to the Authority concern – as confirmed by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its partners – the total number of calls made to advertise services. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7
 

company points out the difficulty of knowing which providers keep a register and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

states that she has updated her list to now include her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Omninet, as well as its process. At the same time, it was routed faster
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure for receiving opt-out registers from other providers.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regarding finding 2, Wind considered that the individual shipment of the items
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of objections is better, but it is proposed to integrate the special documents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of objections to the consolidated list that it sends to the cooperating companies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company Regarding the lack of a procedure for receiving special requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

response, states that it is the responsibility of its partners and is covered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conventionally.
  

As for finding 3, he states that he has described them in detail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information that each partner must provide in their document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Rules for the Operation of Call Centers" which is proven to be sent to these companies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and that he also carried out a random check. For hidden calls,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

claims that it has expressly prohibited this in the written instructions and that it has not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

falls under the assumption of such action on the part of its partner.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As to finding 4, he states that he has never obtained consent from non
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its subscriber and will create such an authority if necessary, while the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

arche o is used when it is intended to make calls to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its subscribers for specific actions.
  

 

 

 

 

As to findings 5 and 6, Wind contends that it has no liability for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its partners, as they act as processors. It mentions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that "he is not responsible for the (non) granting of certain calls made by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its partners, as they act as processors" but that they do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

can know the total number of calls made by the partner
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carried out as an independent business. Regardless, however, Wind is investigating
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints and complaints by searching each call from partners separately.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For the rest, he considered the random check to be sufficient.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As to finding 7, Wind states that the selection of to call
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of numbers is the responsibility of the respective cooperating company, the opposite
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

independently as a data controller.
 

 

 

 

Regarding finding 8, Wind states that it has asked its partner
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to implement a better solution.
 

 

 

 

 

 

8
 

After the filing of the above memorandum, WIND HELLAS
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS S.A. was called only, with the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/1441/20-02-2018 document of the Authority, in re-hearing before the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the meeting of 02-27-2018, as our data controller, to give
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

further clarifications and to present her views in detail. At the meeting
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Authority on 02-27-2018 were attended by Theodosios Tombras, legal advisor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her partner, Mar na Stavropoulou, lawyer and regulatory director
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

department and Stefan a Plota, lawyer. During the hearing, the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

representatives presented their views orally. After the hearing, Mr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing manager should timely file the no. prot. C/EIS/2074/14-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

03-2018 reminder. In this memo, the controller shall state
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in summary the following:
 

 

 

Wind should be considered a data controller only from the moment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which receives the details of a subscriber from its partners, as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it does not affect the selection and the way of dialing the numbers to whom
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls are made.
  

 

 

Finally, he claims that the result of the 140,395 calls that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they refer to the conclusion that it is not accurate and that it should be qualitative and not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

quantitative processing and counting of calls. To this end he cites as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for example the partner company ICAP, which can invite subscribers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and for purposes other than promoting Wind products and services.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file and the opinions,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which Wind developed in the meetings from 5-12-2017 and 27-02-2018, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

heard the rapporteurs and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteurs, namely
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after discussion and before conference and decision-making,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. The person responsible for processing shall be designated by law (Article 2 letter g of Law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997) who "...determines the purpose and method of processing, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

natural or legal person, public authority or agency or anyone else
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organization...". Accordingly, the processor is assigned to the following
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
 

follow his
 

 

of the article as "anyone who processes data
 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature on behalf of a data controller, such as...".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As stated in Opinion 1/2010 of the O.E. of article 29 (see p. 11) "H
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

status of the controller is primarily a consequence of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

factual circumstance that an entity has chosen to process data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature for its own goals". Also, in the opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(see p. 16) states "A pragmatic approach is required which will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

places greater emphasis on the discretionary power of setting objectives and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in decision making. In these cases the question is why
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

where the processing takes place and what is the role of contingencies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of connected actors, such as outsourcing companies: would have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed data by the company acting on the basis of outsourcing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if it had not been defeated by the controller, and under what conditions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions? The processor may further operate based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

general guidance, which is mainly provided on the objectives and not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

particularly goes into detail as to manner'. In the opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the O.E. of article 29 (see p. 18) comes to the conclusion "The determination
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the "purpose" of the processing rests with the "controller".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Whoever takes this decision is, therefore, (de facto) responsible for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing. Determining the "how" of the processing may be delegated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to a third party by the data controller, in terms of technical or organizational aspects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 tasks. Substantial matters which are important for its evaluation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the legality of the processing are under the responsibility of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing".
  

Furthermore, regarding the definition of the person performing the processing a, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above opinion states (see pp. 30-31) "The most important element is the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation for the processor to act "...on his own behalf
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller". Action on behalf of another means the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

serving someone else's interests and remembers its legal meaning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

delegation of powers' and 'However, the delegation of powers may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

still imply some degree of discretion about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

better
 

way
 

service
 

of interests
 

 

of the person in charge
 

 

her
 

processor, allowing the processor to choose the most
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate technical and organizational way".
 

 

 

 

 

 

10
 

This Opinion also provides an example of an evaluation of his role
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller and processor for centres
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

call (see example no. 20, p. 34): "A person in charge of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing outsources some of its work to a centre
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls and gives
 

 

 

order the call center to appear
 

 

 

 

 

 

using the identity of the data controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

when calling the data controller's customers. In
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case, the expectations of the customers and the way in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller is presented to them through the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

outsourcing lead to the conclusion that the outsourcing company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

commission acts as a processor for its controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing (on his behalf)."
 

 

 

 

 
2.

The issue of phone calls, for direct marketing purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

products or services and for both advertising purposes,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulated in article 11 of Law 3471/2006, in which the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unsolicited communications (see par. 1 and 2). It is noted that, with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of article 16 par. 1 and 2 of Law 3917/2011, par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 and 2 of article 11 of law 3471/2006, so that with article 11 par. 1 of law
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3471/2006 it is now defined that: "The use of automatic systems
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calling, in particular using facsimile (fax) or electronic devices
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

post office, and in general the realization of unsolicited communications with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any means of electronic communication, without human intervention, for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes of direct commercial promotion of products or services and for each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

advertising purposes, is allowed only if the subscriber consents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

explicitly in advance", while paragraph 2 of the same article stipulates
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that: "It is not allowed to carry out unintended communications with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

human intervention (calls) for the above purposes, if o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscriber has declared to the provider of the publicly available
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

service, that it generally does not wish to receive such calls. The carrier
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is obliged to register these declarations free of charge in a special list
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscribers, which is available to anyone interested".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Consequently, after 01-09-2011, the date on which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effect of the amended provision, telephone calls with a human
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intervention, in view of the above purposes, are allowed, unless the called
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11
 

has declared that he does not want them ("opt-out" system). The opt-out system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it has the consequence that natural or legal persons can address them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their objections, regarding the processing of their data, especially
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

directly to the controller
 

 

 

 

(ie to the advertiser)
 

 

 

exercising the right of objection regarding personal processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data based on article 13 of Law 2472/1997 and generally through
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their registration in the special list of subscribers of the provider it provides for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 11 par. 2 of Law 3471/2006. The law provides for the creation of registers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

("opt-out") to each provider and the subscriber can declare free of charge,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to his own electronic communications service provider, that he did not wish
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to receive telephone calls for direct marketing. Every
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provider bears, with the aforementioned provision, the obligation to comply with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these statements, Public Registry that served a public purpose and in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which is accessible to anyone who is interested in using it directly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

commercial promotion.
  

 

 
3.

Article 10, paragraph 3 of Law 2472/1997 also states that "The responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processor must take appropriate organizational and technical measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the security of the data and its protection from accidental or unlawful
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

destruction, accidental loss, alteration, prohibited dissemination or access and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any other form of unfair processing. These measures must ensure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

level of security commensurate with the risks involved in the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the nature of the data that is the subject of the processing....” while in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 4 of the same article states that "If the processing is carried out for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account of the person in charge by a person not dependent on him, or the relative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assignment must be made in writing. The assignment obligatorily provides that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

active, the processing is carried out only by order of the person in charge and that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other obligations of this article fall accordingly on him as well". With
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on these provisions, the Authority issued a recommendation in Decision 66/2016
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to Wind to appropriately adapt specific procedures that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

follow up on making phone calls for the purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the promotion of products and services. In this Decision, as in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considerations of Decisions 62-65/2016 and 67/2016 concerning the same issue,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

describes the way in which Wind, but also every person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

editing, he must act when he makes phone calls for her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12
 

advertising its products or services, so that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions of article 11 of Law 3471/2006 but also the general ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions of legality of the processing of personal data which
 

 

 

 

 

 

are provided for in Law 2472/1997.
  

 

 

 

 
4.

In view of the above, the issue of its characterization is first raised
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind and the companies collaborating with it for the implementation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

advertising phone calls. As can be seen from his data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the case file, Wind, through contracts, assigns to partners
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

companies making advertising calls to promote their own
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

products and services. With the contracts, Wind sets a series of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specifications, with which the scope of their activity is determined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these companies. Therefore, Wind fully defines the purpose while determining
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the means of processing. Wind said to some degree
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of discretion to the cooperating companies, allowing them to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

choose the most appropriate technical and organizational way for the selection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of numbers, making calls and how to keep records
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration, in any case, however, this possibility is provided for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

serving its own interests. Further, when carrying out the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls, the called parties are informed that they are being made for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind's account (without e.g. mentioning that they are made for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account of the cooperating company, which will then forward them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

element in Wind) creating the belief in their subjects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given that she is the one responsible for our processing. So, yeah clear
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that Wind was our data controller for the data under consideration
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

activities. The collaborating companies have the role of executor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing to the extent that they do not decide to process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data for their own purposes and not on behalf of the controller.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. The following emerges from the other elements of the case file:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) Wind, through its partners, performing the processing a,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

made 140,395 illegal calls for promotional purposes. The
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of called subscribers have been added to the "opt-out" register of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their provider for a period of time longer than thirty days, while the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscribers have not provided specific consent to the controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let's edit. From the submitted records it was accepted that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13
 

thousands of calls are made every day for promotional purposes.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Specifically, during the first half of 2017, they were carried out in total
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33,781,973 calls and the percentage of proven illegitimate calls
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corresponding, approximately, to 0.44% of the total number of calls.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The making of these calls, as described in his opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control, was not substantially challenged by our data controller. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind argues that the Authority should contrast the calls that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are carried out monthly with the corresponding amounts (registers of article 13 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

providers) every month. This claim, by which one is invoked
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alternative way of control, which does not take time into account,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

when the subscribers asked to join the registry, it does not hurt
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the reliability of the Authority's control methodology. Besides, Wind eh heh
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at its disposal a sufficient period of time, beyond 2 months from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notification of the result and beyond 4 months from their collection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

details of the calls, in order to check the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let's process the results of the audit and highlight specific ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

misdemeanors. Finally, the claim that the Authority had to carry out a qualitative and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no quantitative processing and counting of calls is shown
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incompletely, without explaining the reasons for the difference in results
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the control using the proposed method, which, indeed, does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specializes..
  

b) Wind did not provide all of its records
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

outgoing calls
 

 

while it was admitted that there were calls which
 

 

 

 

 

 

carried out for advertising purposes by processors a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and were not included in the audit records. This results from tra a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

item a. Firstly, from the fact that those performing the processing commissioned it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making calls to cooperating - with them - companies and the authorities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these calls were not attended to the Authority. Second, especially for her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case of the BFS processor, it turns out that the files
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recording are not reliable and there are calls that were made while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are not included in them. And this as, as follows from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

finding, in complaints submitted to the Authority for illegal calls
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and indeed with concealment, seven names are mentioned by the complainants
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of active BFS employees. As it is yes impossible seven different
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14
 

complainants to know details of different BFS employees,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it clearly appears that the full records were not provided,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

since at least those in question are absent from the evidence provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls. On Tuesday, in eight other cases of complaints, they are reported by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the complainants call number proven to belong to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wind partners, while these calls are not contained in the archives
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

records submitted to the Authority. With these data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure for keeping records is faulty and therefore
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate security measures were not implemented by Wind for her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensuring the legality of our processing. Not even if it was considered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

small percentage of "illegal" calls on the total number of calls
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were carried out, this element does not remove the violation which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is determined by making illegal calls, since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in fact, that a particularly weighty criterion for this violation was the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

absolute number of proven illegal calls.
 

 

 

 

 

 

c) From all the audit findings, as described in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

history of the present and are analyzed in the conclusion, the Authority considers that Wind
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has not implemented the most appropriate procedures for the as possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

preventing any possibility of technical or human error or even for him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

detection of any malfunctions, in violation of article 10 of the law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997. Specifically:
 

 

i) The objections of the invited subscribers are not properly satisfied,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.e. when these are addressed to those performing the processing according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

making the calls.
 

 

 

ii) The right to information of the invited parties is not properly satisfied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

users or subscribers, as in its content do not communicate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information on the identity of the company representative is included
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for whose account the call is made nor information about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

possibility of exercising the right of access. Next, the invitees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subscribers are not informed, as required by law, that they can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

object both specifically to the controller and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

generally through their provider's registry and not just through the last one.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii) The control carried out by Wind, as the controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performing the processing is not sufficient, despite the present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15
 

of its representatives at the facilities of the processors a. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sampling proves in practice to be insufficient while, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

already mentioned, it was found that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

record for all processors. Such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has already been highlighted by Decision 66/2016 (see paragraph no. 5), the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The controller must take measures to ensure that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedures are observed both by its employees and by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performing the processing, through periodic on-site checks. Despite
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these, Wind as the processor has no experience, among other things, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more detailed control of all calls made to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

certain period of time and has not checked the legitimacy of their source
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to dial numbers.
 

 

 

iv) Several calls are answered by the called party but, due to technical or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organizational failure, they are not routed to an operator, in violation of it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation of the controller to ensure the conditions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so that all calls are routed to an operator, such as to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is an operator available before the call was made because to a different one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case it is not possible to satisfy any right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the called subscriber or user.
 

 

 

 

 

 

6. Taking into account the above violations and n as the great absolute
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of violations (140,395 illegal calls) detected, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that, as it was accepted, on behalf of our processor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other calls with an advertising nature were also made, items a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of those who did not present themselves to the Authority, the fact that the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

editing, although it has improved some procedures, it does not apply to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implement appropriate technical and organizational measures while at his disposal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sufficient period of time from the issuance and notification of the Decision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

66/2016 until the date of the control in the records of the registered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of calls (1/1/2017), and was therefore able to implement effective ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedures for its compliance with the recommendations of the Authority which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are formulated in this decision, and finally the fact that the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing was clearly intended with the above actions to obtain
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

profit, the Authority considers that it should be imposed on the person in charge of our processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided for in article 21 par. 1 item b' of Law 2472/1997 sanction which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16
 

is referred to in the operative part of the present, the section corresponding to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gravity of the violations.
  

 

 

 

 

The beginning
  

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

 

1. Enforces, based on articles 19 par. 1 item f and 21 of Law 2472/1997
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 13 par. 1 and 4 of Law 3471/2006, to WIND HELLAS
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS SA fined 150,000 Euros for the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

established violations of the provisions of Article 11 of Law 3471/2006
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Article 10 of Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president
 

 

 

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

 

Konstantinos Menudakos
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

17
 

