Opinion 12/2019 on the draft list of the competent

supervisory authority of Spain regarding the processing

operations exempt from the requirement of a data
protection impact assessment (Article 35(5) GDPR)

Adopted on 10 July 2019

Adopted

1

Table of contents
1
2

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS.............................................................................................................. 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................. 5
2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list ................................................... 5
2.2 Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list...................................................... 5
2.3 Analysis of the draft list............................................................................................................. 5
Reference to the guidelines................................................................................................................ 6
Processing under guidelines established by or previously authorised by supervisory bodies .......... 6
Processing under the guidelines of codes of conduct........................................................................ 6
Processing carried out to comply with a legal requirement or to complete a mission ..................... 6
Processing of human resources, accounting, and social security data by SMEs................................ 6
Processing by Professional Colleges and Non-Profit Associations ..................................................... 6
Processing to protect the vital interests of the data subject ............................................................. 6
Significance of the items on the 35.5 GDPR list ................................................................................. 7
List items considered out of scope of Article 35(6) GDPR......................................................... 7
2.4
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS......................................................................................... 7
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................. 8

3
4

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64(2)and Article 35(1), (5), (6) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to Article 51(1)(b) of Directive 2016/680 EU on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and
on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Council  Framework  Decision  2008/977/JHA
(hereafter “Law Enforcement Directive”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, revised on 23 November
2018,

Whereas:

(1)
The  main  role  of  the  Board  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  Regulation
2016/679 (hereinafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Articles
35(6) and 64(2) GDPR, the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to
adopt a list of processing operations not subject to the requirement for a data protection impact
assessment pursuant to Article 35(5) GDPR. The aim of this opinion is therefore to create a harmonised
approach with regard to processing that is cross border or that can affect the free flow of personal
data or natural person across the European Union. Even though the GDPR doesn’t impose a single list,
it does promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions by ensuring that
the lists do not contradict the cases where the GDPR explicitly states that a type of processing should
undergo  a  DPIA, by  recommending  SAs  to  remove  some  criteria  which,  the  Board considers  not
correlated with the absence of likelihood of high risks for data subjects, by recommending them to
limit the scope of the types of processing in order not to contradict the general rules defined in the
DPIA  guidelines  from  the  Article  29  Working  Party,  endorsed  by  the  EDPB,  and  finally  by
recommending them to use some criteria in a harmonized manner.

(2)
With reference to Article 35(5) and (6) GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities may
establish lists of the kind of processing operations which are not subject to the requirement for a data
protection  impact  assessment  (hereinafter  “DPIA”).  They  shall,  however,  apply  the  consistency
mechanism where such lists involve processing operations, which are related to the offering of goods
or services to data subjects or to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States, or may
substantially affect the free movement of personal data within the Union.

(3)
The  EDPB  ensures  pursuant  to  Article 70(1)  of  the  GDPR  the  consistent  application  of
Regulation 2016/679 throughout the European Economic Area. Under Article 64(2), the consistency
mechanism may be triggered by a supervisory authority, the EDPB Chair or the Commission for any
matter of general application or producing effects in more than one Member State. The EDPB shall
issue an opinion on the matter submitted to it provided that it has not already issued an opinion on
the same matter.
Adopted

3

(4)
While the draft lists of the competent supervisory authorities are subject to the consistency
mechanism,  this  does  not  mean  that  the  lists  should  be  identical.  The  competent  supervisory
authorities have a margin of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take
into account their local legislation. The aim of the EDPB assessment/opinion is not to reach a single
EU list but rather to avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect the equivalent protection of the
data subjects across the EEA.

The carrying out of a DPIA is only mandatory for the controller pursuant to Article 35(1)
(5)
GDPR where processing is “likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”.
The national SAs can issue lists concerning certain processing activities which always require a DPIA
(blacklists) per Article 35(4) as well as lists where no DPIA is necessary per Article 35(5) (whitelists).
When a processing does not fall within either of these two lists and is not mentioned Article 35(3)
GDPR, an ad hoc decision will have to be made by the data controller based on whether the “likely to
result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons” criterion is met. According to Recital
91 of the GDPR a DPIA will not be mandatory when the processing is carried out by an individual
physician,  other  health  care  professional  or  a  lawyer,  as  it  is  not  of  a  sufficient  large  scale.  This
exception covers only partially the cases when a DPIA will not be necessary, i.e. when there is no high
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

(6)
The lists produced by the competent supervisory authorities support a common objective,
namely to identify the kind of processing operations for which the national SAs are certain that, under
no circumstances, they will result in a high risk, and processing operations the national SAs deem
unlikely to result in a high risk, and therefore do not require a DPIA. The Board refers to the Working
Party  29  Guidelines  on  DPIA  (WP248  rev.01)1,  which sets  out  criteria  to consider  in  determining
processing operations “likely to result in a high risk”.2 As set out in these guidelines, in most cases, a
data controller can consider that a processing meeting two criteria would require a DPIA to be carried
out. However, in some cases, a data controller can consider that a processing meeting only one of
these criteria requires a DPIA.

The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with
(7)
Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of
the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS
The competent supervisory authority of Spain has submitted its draft list to the EDPB. The decision on
the completeness of the file was taken on 19 June 2019.

The period until which the opinion has to be adopted has been extended until 25 September 2019.

1 Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether
processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 April 2017
and revised on 4 October 2017
2 Recitals 75, 76, 92, 116 GDPR.
Adopted

4

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list
Any list submitted to the EDPB has been interpreted as further specifying on the one hand Article 35
GDPR, which will prevail in any case, and on the other hand recital 91. Thus, no list can be exhaustive.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the Spanish Supervisory Authority, which were
deemed outside  the  scope  of  Article  35(6) GDPR.  This  refers  to  items  that  neither  relate  “to  the
offering of goods or services to data subjects” in several Member States nor to the monitoring of the
behaviour of data subjects in several Member States. Additionally, they are not likely to “substantially
affect the free movement of personal data within the Union”. However, for the sake of clarity, the
Board will enumerate the items of the list, which were deemed outside the scope of Article 35(6)
GDPR. Further, any processing operations that relate to law enforcement were deemed out of scope,
as they are not in scope of the GDPR.

This opinion will not comment on any items on the list, which fall within the scope of recital 91.

The opinions on the Article 35(4) GDPR lists also aimed at defining a consistent core of processing
operations, which the Board requested all Supervisory Authorities to add to their list if not already
present in order to ensure consistency. The Article 35(5) GDPR lists may not exempt these general
processing operations as a rule.

The lists established by SAs pursuant to Article 35(5) GDPR are inherently non-exhaustive. These lists
contain types of processing regarding which national SAs are certain that, under no circumstances,
they will result in a high risk to the rights and freedom of natural persons, and processing operations
the national SAs deem unlikely to result in a high risk.  Such lists cannot enumerate all cases in which
a DPIA will not be necessary. In any event, the obligation of the controller or processor to assess the
risk  of  the  processing  and  to  comply  with  the  other  obligations  imposed  by  the  GDPR  remain
applicable.

When this opinion remains silent on an item from the list submitted, it means that the Board is not
asking the Spanish Supervisory Authority to take further action.

Finally, the Board recalls that transparency is key for data controllers and data processors. In order to
clarify the entries in the list, the Board is of the opinion that making an explicit reference in the lists to
the criteria set out in the guidelines could improve this transparency.
2.2 Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list
The  draft  list  submitted  by  the Spanish Supervisory  Authority  relates  to  the  offering  of  goods  or
services to data subjects, relates to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States and/or
may substantially affect the free movement of personal data within the Union mainly because the
processing operations in the submitted draft list are not limited to data subjects in this country.
2.3 Analysis of the draft list
Taking into account that:

a. Article 35(1) GDPR requires a DPIA when the processing activity is likely to result in a high risk to

the rights and freedoms of natural persons; and

b. Article 35(3) GDPR provides a non-exhaustive list of types of processing that require a DPIA,

Adopted

5

the Board is of the opinion that:

REFERENCE TO THE GUIDELINES
The Board is of the opinion that the analysis done in the Working Party 29 Guidelines WP248 is a core
element for ensuring consistency across the Union. Thus, it recommends the different Supervisory
Authorities to add a statement to the document containing their list that clarifies that their list is based
on these guidelines and that it complements and further specifies the guidelines.
PROCESSING  UNDER  GUIDELINES ESTABLISHED  BY OR PREVIOUSLY AUTHORISED  BY
SUPERVISORY BODIES
The Board notes that the item is closely related to recital 171 GDPR and that this issue is dealt with in
the WP29 Guidelines on DPIA. However, to ensure clarity, the Board recommends that the Spanish
Supervisory Authority clarifies that this exemption is valid only if the processing has not changed since
it was authorized.
PROCESSING UNDER THE GUIDELINES OF CODES OF CONDUCT
The Board is of the opinion that the processing carried out strictly under guidelines of codes of conduct
approved by the Commission or by the supervisory bodies does not by itself lift the obligation to
perform a DPIA. Thus, the Board recommends that the Spanish Supervisory Authority specifies that
only processing for which a full DPIA has already been carried out within a validated code of conduct,
and which are implemented with the measures and safeguards defined in the DPIA, do not require a
separate DPIA.
PROCESSING  CARRIED  OUT  TO  COMPLY  WITH  A  LEGAL  REQUIREMENT  OR TO  COMPLETE  A
MISSION
The  Board is  of  the  opinion that  the  processing “that  is  strictly  necessary  to  comply  with  a  legal
requirement or to complete a mission being carried out in the public interest, provided that there is
no duty to carry out a DPIA within the legal mandate” itself does not by itself lift the obligation to
perform a DPIA. Thus, the Board recommends that the Spanish Supervisory Authority restrict the item
to situations where the DPIA has already been performed.
PROCESSING OF HUMAN RESOURCES, ACCOUNTING, AND SOCIAL SECURITY DATA BY SMES
The Board notes that the processing of accounting, human resources (HR), and social security data in
general is a broad item that might involve categories of personal data, the processing of which is likely
to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. The Board recommends that the
processing  activities envisaged by  the Spanish Supervisory  Authority’s  DPIA  list be restricted  to
processing operations which is mandatory by law.
PROCESSING BY PROFESSIONAL COLLEGES AND NON-PROFIT ASSOCIATIONS
The Board notes that the processing of professional colleges and non-profit associations in general is
a broad item that might involve categories of personal data, the processing of which is likely to pose
a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. The Board recommends that the processing
activities envisaged by the Spanish Supervisory Authority’s DPIA list are restricted to processing that
concerns exclusively the management of personal data in relation to members and donors of the data
controllers listed therein.
PROCESSING TO PROTECT THE VITAL INTERESTS OF THE DATA SUBJECT
The Board notes that this item does not refer to a kind of processing activity but to a legal ground that
a data controller can use to justify the lawfulness of its processing. The Board considers that whether
Adopted

6

a processing activity is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
depends on the nature and characteristics of that activity and not on the legal ground that deems it
lawful. For this reason, the Board recommends that this item be removed from the Spanish Art 35.5
GDPR list.
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ITEMS ON THE 35.5 GDPR LIST
The Board notes that the mere fact that processing activity falls within the scope of a 35.5 GDPR list
does  not  mean  that  a  controller  is  exempt  from  the general obligations of  the GDPR.  Hence,  an
assessment of the risks for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, their likelihood and severity,
needs  to  be  undertaken  by  the  controller  and  processor  in  order  to  ensure  a  level  of  security
appropriate  to  the  risk  in  compliance  with Article  32  GDPR. For  the  sake  of clarity, the  Board
encourages to the Spanish Supervisory Authority to include in its list a paragraph that mentions the
distinction in the application of Articles 32 and 35 of the GDPR.
2.4
The Board is of the view that the following items on the list fall outside the scope of Article 35(6)
GDPR:1

List items considered out of scope of Article 35(6) GDPR



Processing  carried  out  by  owners’  associations  and  sub-associations  in  multi-occupancy
properties,  according  as  these  are  defined  at Article 2  (a,  b,  and  d)  of  Law 49/1960  on
Horizontal Property.

Therefore, the Board does have any comments on this item.
3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS
The draft list of the Spanish Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent application of Article
35 GDPR and the following changes need to be made:













Regarding the reference to the guidelines: the Board recommends the Supervisory Authority of
the Spain to amend its document accordingly.
Regarding processing under guidelines established by or previously authorised by supervisory
bodies: the  Board  recommends  that  the  Spanish  Supervisory  Authority  clarifies  that  this
exemption is valid only if the processing has not changed since it was authorized.
Regarding processing under the guidelines of codes of conduct: the Board recommends that the
Spanish Supervisory Authority specifies that only processing for which a full DPIA has already
been  carried out within  a  validated code  of conduct,  and  which  are  implemented  with  the
measures and safeguards defined in the DPIA, do not require a separate DPIA..
Regarding processing carried out to comply with a legal requirement or to complete a mission:
the Board recommends that the Spanish Supervisory Authority restrict the item to situations
where the DPIA has already been performed.
Regarding  processing  of  HR,  accounting,  and  social  security  data  by  SMEs: the  Board
recommends that the processing activities envisaged by the Spanish Supervisory Authority’s
DPIA list are restricted to processing operations which are mandatory by law.
Regarding processing  by  Professional  Colleges  and  Non-Profit  Associations: the  Board
recommends that the processing activities envisaged by the Spanish Supervisory Authority’s

1 This view is strictly tied to the present list and does not apply necessarily to similar items in the lists submitted
by other Supervisory Authorities.
Adopted

7





DPIA list are restricted to processing that concerns exclusively the management of personal data
in relation to members and donors of the data controllers listed therein.
Regarding processing to protect the vital interests of the data subject: the Board recommends
that this item be removed.
Regarding  the  significance  of  items  listed:  the  Board  encourages  the  Spanish  Supervisory
Authority to clarify that its list is without prejudice to any other obligation stipulated by the
GDPR

4 FINAL REMARKS
This opinion is  addressed  to the Agencia  Española  de  Protección  de  Datos (Spanish Supervisory
Authority) and will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR.

The Spanish Supervisory Authority shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in
the register of decisions which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with
Article 70(1)(y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

8

