The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

 
PRESS RELEASE

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen
 

Bremerhaven, 05/25/2018

  
From now on, Europe gives us control options back!
 
On the occasion of the first day of application of the General Data Protection Regulation on May 25, 2018
said the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. Imke Sommer:
"This year, Whit Monday was not the last public holiday in May: Guaranteed from today
the European General Data Protection Regulation to all people in the European Union
the right to decide for themselves who knows what about them and when. From Uppsala to Umbria
people must now be informed in simple and understandable terms that
what processors intend to do with their personal data. This information enables us to
Regain control over how our data is used. With that, the
European Union a counterpoint to the impression of many people, the big and
small businesses, government agencies and other entities that require personal information for their
Use purposes to be at the mercy of being clueless and helpless.
The gnashing of teeth of some data protection officers in fulfilling the
long-established and the new requirements can be clearly heard. those who
However, if you want to process our data, we can assure you that the effort is worth it: you
can rest assured that we as customers, employees,
Association members and others affected appreciate and reward when they
Observe the fundamental right to informational self-determination. And they are in themselves
increasingly digitizing world up to date; because it is already evident that
the General Data Protection Regulation as a global standard
for processing
personal data will. With the General Data Protection Regulation, everyone can only
to win!"
 

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

office@datenschutz.bremen.de

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information • Arndtstraße 1 • 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Fax: 0421 - 496 - 18495 • e-mail address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

