

Bonn, June 28, 2021


Press Release 13/2021


  Errors in the BfDI contact forms led to the loss of reports
When the new website of the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) was launched, there were problems using the contact forms. The error has now been corrected.

The actual purpose of the service is to be able to submit entries much more conveniently. The BfDI regrets that such an error occurred when the new homepage was launched. At no time did unauthorized third parties have access to the information sent via the forms. The BfDI will also use the incident to improve the processes involved in the acceptance of software projects.

An incorrect setting of the server by the executing service provider had led to reports on the form pages of the BfDI website being recognized as so-called "spoofing" by the security measures of the federal networks. With "spoofing", attackers try to disguise their own identity and present themselves as trustworthy. As a result, the server deleted the data reported via the form pages.

Submissions and complaints submitted via these forms between June 9th and 18th, 2021 largely did not reach the BfDI and could therefore not be processed. Affected citizens are therefore asked to submit their submissions and complaints again during this period.

The forms are now online again and can be accessed via the BfDI website at https://www.bfdi.bund.de/kontakt.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











