

Berlin, March 25, 2021


Press Release /2020


  BfDI presents 29th activity report
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, presented the 29th activity report for data protection and freedom of information to the President of the German Bundestag on Thursday.

The BfDI notes that data protection issues were the dominant topic of the 2020 reporting year during the pandemic: "While Corona presents us with new challenges every day, the rest of the world does not stand still. Even without the pandemic, my agency would have had its hands full. For example with the Schrems II judgment, Brexit, the digitization of the healthcare system and the reorganization of the supervision of the Federal Intelligence Service.”
BfDI Professor Kelber also wants to draw the public's attention to good developments: "There are many positive things to report, especially in the projects in which I was involved early on and was able to advise. For example, that the intelligence services inform applicants about the exemptions under the Security Clearance Act after I have pointed them out. Or that my controls under the Freedom of Information Act at the Federal Agency for Political Education and at the Federal Agency for Technical Relief have led to positive results. For the next activity report, I hope that we only deal with Corona in retrospect and that the list of positive examples, especially with large subject areas, gets longer.”
Since this year there has been a joint activity report on the topics of data protection and freedom of information.

The current activity report and the activity reports of previous years can be downloaded here:
29th Activity Report on Data Protection and Freedom of Information 2020




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











