1/13

 File No.: EXP202200419

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 29, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against PUNTO BADAL-BCN
SL (hereinafter the claimed party). Once the start agreement was notified and after analyzing the
arguments presented, on July 12, 2022, the proposal for
resolution transcribed below:

<<

File No.: EXP202200419

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant) on 11/29/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
ge against PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L. with NIF B67014597 (hereinafter the claimed).
The reasons on which the claim is based are the following: receipt of an e-mail
email dated 11/29/2021 sent to dozens of recipients, including the re-
crying, without using the BCC functionality. He states that he contacted the
called to request information about a property, but did not request the receipt of
publicity.

Provide a copy of the mail received: "La casa agency"; It is a Christmas message
introducing themselves to the neighborhood and offering real estate advisory services. The
The only information revealed is the email address.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 01/17/2022, the claim is transferred to THE FRANCHISE
REAL ESTATE CITOR in accordance with the LPACAP, so that it proceeded to its
analysis and report to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

On 02/07/2022 he replied that he has a protocol to respond to the exercises
of rights it receives; unaware of the means by which the claimant exercises her
right of access, suppression and claim since there has been no communication
prior cation with the entity, not being responsible for your data since it does not keep
had no prior business relationship with her; that for the reason described, it is not possible for the
entity can report on the claim or respond to the exercise of rights; that
the respondent has its own protocol for the exercise of the rights of the in-
concerned, being able to address these to your postal address or to the email 08028a@lacasa.-
net; that additionally, since 2018 our entity has the services
Consultancy on Data Protection by a specialized company.

Provides Protocol for the Processing of Rights in the field of Damage Protection.

Likewise, on 02/08/2022 said claim was transferred to the person claimed in accordance with
with the LPACAP, so that it could proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency
within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations. There is no response.

THIRD: On 02/28/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 04/29/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged in-
fractions of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and
article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

FIFTH: Notification of the start agreement, the one claimed in writing on 05/26/2022
I present a brief of allegations stating in summary the following: that it is true
that an inexperienced worker who had just joined the team sent by mistake and
without bad faith an email without the blind copy option with a simple congratulations-
Christmas tion; that in order to impose a fine, the circumstances of the
individual character; that real estate agency services were offered in the post office
having remarkable data

SIXTH: On 06/02/2022, a period of practice tests began, according to
do the following

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
plaintiff and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection services that are part of the file.

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
presented by the claimed party and the accompanying documentation.

SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, they have been
accredited the following proven facts:

1. On 11/29/2021 there is a written entry in the AEPD from the claimant stating that
received on the same date an email sent to numerous recipients,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

including the claimant, without using the blind copy function. Also, it indicates that
contacted the respondent to request information about a property, but
that you did not request the receipt of advertising.

2. A copy of the mail received by the claimant without a blind copy is provided in the
containing dozens of email addresses; Christmas message from "The
casa agency" introducing itself to the neighborhood and offering counseling services in-
furniture.

3. The respondent in writing dated 05/26/2022 states “That it is true that a worker
inexperienced and who had just joined our team sent by mistake and without bad
faith. an email without the blind copy option with a simple CONGRATULATIONS
OF CHRISTMAS".

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each autho-
authority of control and according to what is established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
Data processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with
subsidiary character, by the general rules on administrative procedures
you".

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:
"two. Each control authority will have all the following powers:

rectives listed below:

II

(…)
i) impose an administrative fine pursuant to article 83, in addition to or instead of
gar of the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of
each particular case;

(…)”

In the first place, article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must govern
govern the processing of personal data and mentions among them that of "integrity and
confidentiality”.

The cited article states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the damages
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing
to and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of
appropriate technical or organizational measures (“integrity and confidentiality”)”.
(…)

III

1. The documentation in the file offers clear indications that
the claimed, violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to the treatment, to the re-
Send email without using the blind copy option, violating confidentiality.
ity in the processing of personal data. Thus, the claimant
had access to the email addresses of the other recipients.
 

This duty of confidentiality must be understood to have the purpose of
prevent leaks of the data not consented to by the owners of the same.
and it is an obligation that falls not only to the person responsible and in charge of the treatment,
but to everyone who intervenes in any phase of the treatment and complements
obligation of professional secrecy.

The same claimed in writing of allegations to the agreement to start
05/26/2022 I present a brief of allegations, has acknowledged the facts stating “That
it is true that an inexperienced worker and that he had just joined our team
sent by mistake and without bad faith. an email without the blind copy option with
a simple CHRISTMAS CARD”.

Therefore, in view of the foregoing, it is considered that the respondent has violated

nerated the RGPD for infraction of what is indicated in article 5.1.f) of the same.

2. The respondent has also indicated in his brief of 05/26/2022 that he has not
there was bad faith or intentionality in sending the email; regarding
In this matter, it should be noted that the National High Court in its rulings, among
others that of 05/24/02 has indicated that “good faith in acting, to justify the absence
guilt –as is done in the present case-; suffice it to say that that allegation
is weakened when there is a specific duty of vigilance derived from the profession
criminality of the offender. In this traditional line of reflection, the STS of March 12
of 1975 and March 10, 1978, reject the allegation of good faith, when on the
offender weigh duties of vigilance and diligence derived from his status as a profes-
sional”.

3. Therefore, it is estimated that the defendant would be responsible for the violation of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned regulation-
ment.

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
costs for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% maximum
amount of the global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting-
I know for the highest amount”.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: “They constitute violations
tions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to this law
organic”.

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
entail a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular,
ticular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

Second, it should be noted that the security of personal data

It is regulated in article 32 of the RGPD.

v

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of pro-
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons,
the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and organizational measures
appropriate channels to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which in its
case include, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-

permanent silence of treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore availability and access to personal data

promptly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness

of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
torized to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
feel article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee
warrant that any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge
do and have access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the
Union or of the Member States.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

SAW

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies

of “Infringements considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following
following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

(…)”.

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as “all
all those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or illicit ration of personal data transmitted, conserved or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

7th

The documentation in the file shows that the respondent has violated
nerated article 32 of the RGPD, when a security incident occurs motivated by
sending an email to a large number of recipients without the function
blind copying, violating the established technical and organizational measures.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned provision does not establish a list of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

the security measures that are applicable according to the data that is
object of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
will apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk that
treatment entails, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of applying
cation, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of
probability and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate.
to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the technical and
Organizational activities must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures
you give.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level, parti-
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
authorized to said data and that could cause physical, material and
them or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the processing from violating the
established in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the
risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption.
These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including confidentiality.
taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application with respect to
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data to be protected. To the
assess the risk in relation to data security, should be taken into account
the risks arising from the processing of personal data, such as the destruction
accidental or unlawful loss, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data, conservation
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such
data, susceptible in particular to cause physical, material or
immaterial”.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the security incident.
revealed by the claimant, since he is responsible for making decisions
tions aimed at effectively implementing the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the
confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing access to the
in the event of a physical or technical incident. However, from the documentation provided
It follows that the entity has not only failed to comply with this obligation, but also
Furthermore, the adoption of measures in this regard is unknown, despite having given
side of the filed claim.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent would be liable
saber of the infringement of article 32.1 of the RGPD, infringement typified in its article
83.4.a).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed, they must observe

The provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which indicate:

viii

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of the fines
in accordance with this article for infringements of these Regulations.
indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate
tioned and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages
they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor

to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the data controller or data processor.
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied in vir-
tude of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment-

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy
gave the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
nothing previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation
with the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms

certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, direct or indirect.
straight, through the infraction.

I lie;

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its ar-

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

of personal data.

commission of the offence.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission

of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, voluntarily
beneficiary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
which there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

cough.

- In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanction for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) and article 5.1.f) of the RGPD of the
that the defendant is held responsible, the following factors are considered concurrent:

Aggravating circumstances are:

- Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatments
of personal data (article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD in relation to the ar-
article 83.2.k).

- Although it cannot be argued that the defendant acted intentionally-
mind, there is a serious lack of diligence in their actions. Connected to the gra-
diligence that the data controller is obliged to display in the
compliance with the obligations imposed by the data protection regulations
the SAN of 10/17/2007 can be cited: “(...) the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is disregarded, i.e.
when the offender does not behave with due diligence. And in the assessment of
degree of diligence, the professionalism or not of the subject must be especially weighed,
and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the recovery
rrerent is of constant and abundant handling of personal data has to insist-
rigorously and with exquisite care to adjust to the legal precautions regarding the
aspect” (article 83.2, b) of the RGPD).

In accordance with the above factors, it is considered appropriate to propose for violation

tion of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD a penalty of 3,000 euros.

- Secondly, in order to set the amount of the penalty for the infringement
typified in article 83.4.a) and article 32.1 of the RGPD for which the user is responsible.
claimed, the following factors are considered concurrent.

- Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatments
of personal data (article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD in relation to the ar-
article 83.2.k).

- Although it cannot be argued that the defendant acted intentionally-
mind, there is a serious lack of diligence in their actions. Connected to the gra-
diligence that the data controller is obliged to display in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

compliance with the obligations imposed by the data protection regulations
the SAN of 10/17/2007 can be cited: “(...) the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is disregarded, i.e.
when the offender does not behave with due diligence. And in the assessment of
degree of diligence, the professionalism or not of the subject must be especially weighed,
and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the recovery
rrerent is of constant and abundant handling of personal data has to insist-
rigorously and with exquisite care to adjust to the legal precautions regarding the
aspect” (article 83.2, b) of the RGPD).

In accordance with the above factors, it is considered appropriate to propose for violation

tion of article 32.1 of the RGPD a penalty of 2,000 euros.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

FIRST: That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L., with NIF B67014597, for infringing article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 85.3.a) of the RGPD, a penalty of €3,000
(three thousand euros).

SECOND: That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
penalize PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L., with NIF B67014597, for infringing article
32.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD, a penalty of €2,000 (two
a thousand euros).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
You are informed that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this
reduction, the total penalty would be established at €4,000 (four thousand euros) and its
payment will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount
specified above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited,
You must make it effective by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and
the cause, by voluntary payment, of reduction of the amount of the sanction. Likewise,
You must send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
proceed to close the file.

By virtue thereof, the foregoing is notified, and the
procedure so that within a period of TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

in his defense and present the documents and information that he considers pertinent,
in accordance with article 89.2 of the LPACAP.

BBB
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

EXHIBIT

File index EXP202200419
11/29/2021 A.A.A. claim
01/17/2022 Transfer claim to LA CASA REAL ESTATE FRANCHISOR
GROUP, S.L.
02/07/2022 Response to the request of the REAL ESTATE FRANCHISOR
HOUSE GROUP SL
02/08/2022 Transfer claim 2 to PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L.
02/28/2022 Communication to A.A.A.
05/03/2022 A. opening to PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L.
05/22/2022 Info. Complainant to A.A.A.
05/26/2022 Allegations of PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L.
06/02/2022 Notice p. tests to PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L.

>>

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

SECOND: On July 26, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 4000 euros making use of the reduction foreseen in the
motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202200419, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to PUNTO BADAL-BCN S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

968-230522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

