1/13

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00382/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated 03/16/2019 I present
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against the CITY COUNCIL OF TRES CANTOS with NIF P2818400J (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are:
that the City Council offers "Jornada Lúdica" and the authorization for participation in
said activity is as follows: "I XXXXX with D.N.I. XXXXX authorize my Son/daughter
XXXXXX who is enrolled in the Course: XXXXX at the XXXXX College and has
XXXXXX years, to participate in the activities of the Jornada Lúdica organized by the Con-
Department of Education of the Tres Cantos City Council and allow the publication of
coughs taken during the activity, attendance at the pool at the established time and
transfer to emergency centers, if necessary.", considering that, in the case of
of a written statement, it is necessary to clearly differentiate the part
regarding the data protection of the rest of the declarations.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 05/15/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the affected party of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the determined Agency
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On 10/22/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.

On 11/12/2019, the respondent responded by stating that he had unified in a statement
only the authorization requirements for participation in the fun day activity
and establishes the conditions accepted by the person signing the authorization, not
contemplating an authorization to the user's letter; that from the City Council
there is a contradiction between the proposed authorization model and the regulations
in force and that, having examined the articles of the RGPD from this body,
they consider none of the minor's rights violated.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

THIRD: On 02/26/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
Violation of articles 7.2 and 13 of the RGPD contemplated in article 83.5.a) and b)
of the aforementioned Regulation, considering that the sanction that could correspond would be
of WARNING.

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

FIFTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant, dated 03/16/2019, submitted a written document to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, claiming against the system implemented by the AYUN-
TREATMENT to request consent to participate in the activities of Jorna-
da Lúdica organized by the Department of Education and "allow the publication of photos
taken during the activity, attendance at the pool at the established time and
transfer to emergency centers, if necessary.", considering that, in the case of
a written statement, it is necessary to clearly differentiate the part
Regarding the data protection of the rest of the declarations.

SECOND: In the participant file to take part in the Fun Day
promoted by the Ministry of Education of the respondent appears at the bottom of the aforementioned
document the authorization to participate with the following content:

"Me................................................ ...................................with

ID .........................................I authorize my

Child ......................................................... ................. who is enrolled in the
Course: ................... at the College .......................... ........................... and is ........ years old,
to participate in the activities of "Playful Day" organized by the Department of
Education of the City Council of Tres Cantos and allow the publication of photos taken
during the activity, attendance at the pool at the established times and transfer to
emergency centers, if necessary.

SIGNATURE OF THE FATHER / MOTHER OR GUARDIAN:

Three Songs, to …………………………………………………….

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

The legal basis on which the data processing is based comes
regulated in art. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
and which repeals Directive 95/96/CE (General Regulation for the protection of
data).

The present instance bases the treatment of the data contained in
it, in the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
public powers conferred on this City Council established in case e) of
Article 6 section 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation”

THIRD: The respondent in writing of 10/29/2019 has stated: “That from this
City Council, in conclusion, and regarding this case, there is no contradiction
between the authorization model proposed by the City Council and the current regulations”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:
a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what results
of instruction.

c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with

express indication of the system of recusal of the same.

d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attributes such competence, indicating the possibility that the alleged perpetrator
can voluntarily acknowledge its responsibility, with the effects provided for in the
article 85.

e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those
may adopt during the same in accordance with article 56.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event
not to carry out
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement
of initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise statement about the imputed responsibility.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the procedure
initiated.

III

The claimed facts show the violation by the respondent of the
indicated in articles 7.2 and 13 of the RGPD; First, when requesting the
consent to the parents of minors for their children to participate in a
Recreational Day and later to be able to publish photos, attendance at the pool and transfer
to emergencies, etc., and, secondly, by not reporting the planned treatment of
in accordance with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

 
Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

(…)”

Article 6 of the RGPD, Legality of the treatment, establishes that:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

(…)”

Article 7 of the RGPD, Conditions for consent, establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

"1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the
responsible must be able to demonstrate that he consented to the treatment of his
personal information.

2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a statement
writing that also refers to other matters, the request for consent will be
presented in such a way as to be clearly distinguishable from other matters, in a manner
intelligible and easily accessible and using clear and simple language. It will not be binding
any part of the declaration that constitutes an infringement of these Regulations.

3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any
moment. The withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment
based on consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving your consent, the
Interested party will be informed of this. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

4. In assessing whether consent has been freely given, account will be taken
to the greatest extent possible whether, among other things, the execution of a
contract, including the provision of a service, is subject to the consent of the
processing of personal data that is not necessary for the execution of said
contract".

On the other hand, article 13 of the RGPD determines the information that must be
be provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, establishing the
Next:

 
“Article 13. Information that must be provided when personal data is

obtain from the interested party.

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis
legal treatment; 4.5.2016 L 119/40 Official Journal of the European Union
IT IS
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the
legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a
adequacy decision of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers
indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, paragraph
second, reference to adequate or appropriate guarantees and means
to obtain a copy of these or to the fact that they have been loaned.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or
the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the
right to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw the
consent at any time, without affecting the legality of the
treatment based on consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obligated
do to provide personal data and is informed of the possible
consequences of not providing such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and
anticipated consequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide
to the data subject, prior to such further processing, information about that other
purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

IV

In the present case, the respondent states that he has unified into a single
declaration of the authorization requirements for participation in the activity day
playful establishing the conditions accepted by the person signing the authorization, not
contemplating an authorization to the user's letter and, that from the City Council
No contradiction is observed between the proposed authorization model and the
regulations in force and that having examined the articles of the RGPD, from the aforementioned body
of local government, none of the minor's rights are considered violated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

In the open procedure, the defendant is charged with the violation of article 7
of the RGPD when evidencing the infringement of the regulations on data protection in what
regarding obtaining consent in the document provided by the claimant
to participate in the activities of the Leisure Day organized by the Department of
Education of the Local Entity and in which, in addition to requesting the consent
for the aforementioned day, the same is intended for other activities such as the
assistance to the pool, the transfer to emergency centers and the publication of photos. The
provided text does not distinguish or discriminate about the authorization to participate in
each of the activities to be carried out showing the obsolescence of the clause
included to obtain consent.

And while it is true that within the consent to participate in the Conference
Lúdica we could tacitly understand including the authorization to participate in the
pool activities as well as the possible transfer to the emergency room as a consequence
participation in the aforementioned activities, is no less true than for the
publication of photographs of the participating minors, a new
consent of the parents or guardians because it is a different purpose and that
could be accredited by including in the aforementioned form document a
specific box whose marking authorizes the person responsible for the file to
use of the personal data of the participants for said purpose, being able to
withdraw such consent at any time.

It should be noted that the consent given must be a
specific consent; that is to say, a consent that is given
in general without determining the specific purpose for which they will be
treated the data that is intended to be collected.

 
Article 6.1.a) of the RGPD indicates it when the consent is granted by the
character of legitimizing basis of the treatment if it has been granted for one or several purposes
specific and connecting it with article 7.2 of the RGPD, it is established that for the
consent is valid and specific must be intelligible, so that it is
clearly determine what data is going to be processed, what will be the
treatment operation to be carried out and what is the purpose for which
it is intended to perform that operation with that data, etc.

 
In this way, a consent that is given for all the
legitimate purposes that the person in charge intends to achieve, but it must be done
reference to those operations that are reasonable and necessary in relation to the
specifically intended purposes.

Therefore, the City Council violates the RGPD in the collection of consent
parents of minors so that their children can participate in a Fun Day
since, in addition to requesting consent for it and in which
we could understand including participation in the pool and transfer to the emergency room,
intends to apply for another purpose: the publication of photos and, furthermore,
not adequately informing about the planned treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

Nor is the requirement that “consent must be given
through a clear affirmative act that reflects a manifestation of free will,
specific, informed, and unequivocal of the interested party to accept the processing of data
of a personal nature that concern him", it being understood that "inaction should not
constitute consent” (Recital 32).

Thus, the defendant violated article 7.2 of the RGPD by obtaining the
Consent for all activities in general must be collected for each
one of them in the participant file, so it is considered to be inadequate not
complying with the requirements of the RGPD.

Secondly, it should be noted that for a correct privacy policy

It is necessary to take into account the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

In the present case, the respondent makes no reference to compliance
of the duty of information established in the aforementioned article that contemplates the information
that must be provided in the collection of data when it is carried out
directly from the interested party so that he is able to determine in advance
what is the scope and consequences of data processing,
must determine the identity of the person in charge, contact information of the
responsible and, where appropriate, of the data protection delegate, purposes of treatment to
that the data will be destined, recipients of the data, rights that the interested party
can exercise before the person in charge, etc.

v

Article 83.5 a) and b) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” and “the rights of the interested parties according to articles
12 to 22”, is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the
aforementioned Regulation.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes: "Infringements

considered very serious:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
entail a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular,
ticular, the following:

(…)
c) Failure to comply with the requirements of article 7 of the Regulation

(EU) 2016/679 for the validity of consent.

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.

(…)”

SAW

However, the LOPDGDD in its article 77,

 Regime applicable to
certain categories of controllers or processors, establishes the
Next:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
gain of which it depends hierarchically, in his case, and to those affected who had the
Interested party status, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and
sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous paragraphs.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the case examined, it has been proven that the person claimed in the
collection of consent from parents of minors for their children to participate in
a Recreational Day organized by the Department of Education of the claimed
allowing, in addition, the publication of photos if necessary and, without informing
adequately on the intended processing of personal data,
incurs in violation of the regulations on data protection, articles 7.2 and 13 of the
GDPR.

In accordance with the evidence available to said conduct
constitutes by the claimed the infringement of the provisions of articles 7.2 and 13
of the GDPR.

It should be noted that the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83,
contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of warning
to correct the processing of personal data that is not in accordance with your
forecasts, when those responsible or in charge listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

As indicated previously, it has been proven that the defendant
does not comply with the data protection regulations in relation to obtaining the
consent included in the participant file in the recreational activities
organized by the Department of Education by pretending not to consent
but rather a kind of general consent for all those purposes
intended, as well as in relation to its poor privacy policy not having
adopted pertinent and necessary measures in accordance with what is indicated in them
articles 7.2 and 13 of the RGPD.

It is necessary to point out that if these deficiencies are not corrected by adopting
the appropriate measures as indicated in articles 7.2 and 13 of the RGPD or
reiterate the behavior revealed in the claim and that is the cause of the
this procedure, as well as not immediately informing this AEPD of the
measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of possible actions before the
responsible for the treatment in order to apply effectively the measures
appropriate to guarantee and not compromise the confidentiality of the data of
personal character and the right to privacy of individuals.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE TRES CANTOS CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P2818400J,
for an infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF TRES CANTOS, with NIF
P2818400J, so that within a month from the notification of this resolution,
proves: the adoption of the necessary and pertinent measures in accordance with the
regulations regarding the protection of personal data in order to prevent
incidents such as those that have given rise to the
claim correcting the effects of the infraction, adapting the participant file
to take part in the Play Day promoted by the Ministry of Education to the
mentioned measures in such a way that a box is included that allows the parents of the
minors oppose the publication of photographs of minors participating in the
same and adapt to the requirements contemplated in articles 7.2 and 13 of the
GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF TRES
CANTOS, with NIF P2818400J.

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 :  COMMUNICATE

this resolution to the Ombudsman, of

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

