The ICO exists to empower you through information. 

Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, Cheshire, SK9 5AF 
T. 0303 123 1113
ico.org.uk

Swinburne Snowball and Jackson 
2 Edith Street  
Consett  
County Durham  
DH8 5DW 

By email only to: 

9 August 2023 

Dear 

Case Reference Number INV/0160/2021 

I write to inform you that the ICO has now completed its investigation 
into the personal data breach reported by Swinburne Snowball and 
Jackson (‘SSJ’).   

In summary, it is our understanding that: 

• The threat actor compromised an employee Outlook email account

via a spear phishing attack and interfered with payments to
beneficiaries of a probate matter. Following contact from your bank
on 14 January 2021, four fraudulent payments totalling

 were identified. 

• An independent cyber security firm identified the first malicious

sign-in in occurred on 11 January 2021 until the account password
was changed on 15 January 2021.

• SSJ reported the matter to its personal data insurers and the

Solicitors Regulation Authority (‘SRA’) on 15 January 2021. SSJ
later notified the ICO on 26 January 2021, 12 days after which SSJ
confirmed it had a reasonable degree of certainty the security
incident had led to a personal data breach.

Our consideration of this case 

This case has been considered under the UK GDPR due to the nature of 
the processing involved, and that the incident occurred on or after 25 May 
2018. 

 

For more information about our powers under the data protection 
legislation please see the attached leaflet. 

We have investigated whether SSJ has complied with the requirements of 
data protection legislation. During the course of the investigation, we 
have noted that: 

•  The personal data breach involved a large sum of money relating to 

a probate matter and resulted in a delay in the payments of the 
legacies to the beneficiaries by 21 days.  

•  SSJ did not have a suitable contract in place with its IT provider 

that defined security responsibilities or the level of security 
required. As a result, SSJ was unable to demonstrate if or how 
preventative, detective or auditing measures were implemented 
with regards to its email accounts.  

•  SSJ further did not have multi-factor authentication (‘MFA’) in place 
for the affected email account and advised the ICO it had not been 
suggested by its IT contractors beforehand. Extensive guidance was 
available via the National Cyber Security Centre (‘NCSC’), Solicitors 
Regulation Authority and the Law Society, which promoted the use 
of strong or multi-factor authentication.1 Additional means of 
authentication serve to make unauthorised access more difficult and 
help to protect particularly sensitive or private personal data.  

•  Given the nature of SSJ’s business and the scope of information it 

processes and has access to, including financial transactions, it 
would be anticipated that appropriate security measures, such as 
MFA, or formal accreditations, such as the NCSC’s Cyber Essentials, 
would be in place to protect this data. Post incident, SSJ has  
indicated it has implemented MFA.  

•  SSJ started but did not complete accreditation to the NCSC’s Cyber 

Essentials, which is a government supported scheme designed to 
help businesses protect against basic cyber-attacks through self-
assessment. Lexcel is the Law Society’s legal practice quality mark 

 

1 Cyber-Essentials-Requirements-for-IT-infrastructure-2-2.pdf (ncsc.gov.uk), SRA | 
Technology and legal services | Solicitors Regulation Authority, Cybersecurity when 
working from home | The Law Society 

 

and the March 2018 Lexcel Standards state that legal practices 
should be accredited against Cyber Essentials.  
 

In view of the above, the ICO has determined that SSJ failed to comply 
with Article 5(1)(f), which requires personal data is processed securely, 
and Article 32(1)(b), which requires appropriate measures are in place to 
ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk and ensure the ongoing 
confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems 
and services.  

We have also considered the remedial steps taken by SSJ in light of this 
incident, including SSJ’s prompt notification to affected individuals. We 
further note SSJ commissioned a third party cyber security firm to 
investigate and report on this incident and liaised with its IT consultants 
for advice and assistance with remedial measures. We understand that all 
clients were repaid in full on 3 February 2021.  

Based on the information provided and having taken into consideration 
your representations, the Commissioner has decided to issue SSJ with a 
reprimand in accordance with Article 58 of the GDPR.  

Details of reprimand 

The reprimand has been issued in respect of the following processing 
operations that have infringed the GDPR: 

•  Processing personal data in non-compliance of the requirements set 

out in Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1)(b).  

Recommendations 

Accountability is one of the key data protection principles and makes a 
controller responsible for complying with the GDPR. A controller should 
therefore implement appropriate and effective measures and be able to 
demonstrate the compliance of processing activities with the GDPR. The 
ICO expects all organisations to demonstrate how they take personal data 
obligations seriously and process personal data in a manner that ensures 
appropriate security.  

 

In line with Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1)(b) of the UK GDPR, The 
Commissioner routinely recommends the following steps concerning 
governance, identity and access controls, technical control selection, staff 
training and awareness and supply chain security: 

1.  Ensure senior management are accountable for the security of its 

personal data processing, and information security is regularly 
assessed in line with known threats.  

2.  Perform regular reviews of user privileges and enable strong 

authentication for any remote access into the network or internet 
facing services, such as cloud services. The NCSC’s introduction to 
identity and access management guidance includes useful advice on 
privileged user management.  

3.  Consider the creation of a separate and formal password policy 
which directs users to appropriate levels of access controls. The 
NCSC’s Password administrator for system owners guidance will 
provide support in implementing appropriate password strategies.  

4.  Implement measures to reduce the risk of social engineering 

attacks, such as anti-spoofing measures. The NCSC’s Phishing 
Attacks: Defending your organisation guidance will provide support  
in implementing controls to prevent phishing attacks. 

5.  Deliver data protection training, with reference to cyber security, to 

all employees on a regular basis and evaluate the methods of 
control, delivery and monitoring of such training. Also regularly 
raise awareness of data protection, information governance and 
associated policies and procedures. 

6.  Determine and communicate security requirements to a supplier 

and formalise responsibilities within a contract. As part of this, 
establish how to seek assurances a supplier has implemented 
appropriate levels of security. The NCSC supply chain security 
guidance provides practical examples of how to manage security 
within a supply chain. 

7.  Conduct regular assessments of security controls to ensure they are 

achieving their intended outcomes.  

It is important to note the above measures are suggestions and have 
been designed to support organisations in improving their security 
controls and overall protection against cyber-attacks; it is not a 

 

regulatory requirement for SSJ to implement these recommendations. 
However, if further information relating to this matter comes to light, or if 
any further incidents or complaints are reported to us, further regulatory 
action may be considered.  

The requirements of the UK GDPR  

The UK GDPR defines a personal data breach as a breach of security 
leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, 
unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, 
stored, or otherwise processed.  

In the event of a personal data breach there is a requirement under 
Article 33 to notify the Information Commissioner’s Office within 72 
hours, unless the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the 
rights and freedoms of an individual. 

Further guidance is also available on our website: https://ico.org.uk/for-
organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-
protection-regulation-gdpr/personal-data-breaches/ 

In this instance, we understand from SSJ’s breach report that SSJ was 
initially unaware of the 72 hour deadline and focused primarily on 
identifying and containing the damage caused by the breach. SSJ further 
explained it was a small practice and had taken action to report to the 
SRA and insurers within 24 hours.  

However, in line with Article 33, if a reportable personal data breach 
occurs, it must be reported to the competent supervisory authority (the 
Information Commissioner) without undue delay and no later than 72 
hours of becoming aware of it. We would also like to stress that in 
instances where all of the information regarding a breach cannot be 
initially provided, Article 33(4) of the GDPR allows a data controller to 
report the breach and provide information in phases.  

We are concerned to note that SSJ were not immediately aware of the 
reporting requirements under the GDPR. SSJ should therefore ensure all 
staff are appropriately trained in this area, especially those responsible 
for overseeing your organisation’s data protection obligations.  

 

Further information about overall compliance with the data protection 
legislation can also be found on our website: https://ico.org.uk/for-
organisations/guide-to-data-protection/ 

We actively publicise our regulatory activity and outcomes, as this helps 
us to achieve our strategic aims in upholding information rights in the 
public interest. We may publish information about cases reported to us, 
for example where we think there is an opportunity for other 
organisations to learn or where the case highlights a risk or novel issue. 

We publish information in accordance with our Communicating Regulatory 
and Enforcement Activity Policy, which is available online here: 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico_enforcement_communications_policy.
pdf  

Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation.  

We now consider the matter closed. 

Yours sincerely,  

 

 

Lead Technical Investigations Officer 
Information Commissioner’s Office 

 

Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we exchange with 
third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal with, including the General Data 
Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 
2000. You can read about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk).  

The ICO publishes the outcomes of its investigations. Examples of published data sets 
can be found at this link (https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/our-information/complaints-
and-concerns-data-sets/).  

Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is confidential. You 
should also say why so that we can take that into consideration. However, please note 
that we will only withhold information where there is good reason to do so. 

 

For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy notice at 
www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice 

 

 

 
 

