1/20

 Procedure No.: PS/00315/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: EXCEL HOTELS RESORT S.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated
07/12/2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
The claim is directed against SIGNALLIA MARKETING DISTRIBUTION, S.A., with
CIF A76539030 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based
are "the malpractice of the claimed party, by terminating a contract for the provision of services
and deny us access to our own servers, access to our passwords,
in addition to refusing to return all the data of our entity causing
serious damage to our systems, our staff, as well as extensive damage
economic when all the work systems are paralyzed”.

He states that on 04/29/2019 he sends a burofax to the respondent requesting the change of
servers to the company's facilities under a contract for the provision of services
services signed on 07/01/2011 (attach a copy of the contract).

In the literal copy of the burofax, document 1, it is indicated: "As we have
revealed, it is our intention to change the place in which they are
our company's servers are stored in such a way that they become
located in our central offices and to avoid illegal access to the information that
It is housed in them. Although the truth is that today they have been doing
ignoring our request, intending to misappropriate our
computer equipment and the information that is housed in them, therefore
We warn you that in the event that they do not proceed to put at our disposal the
servers of the company in the non-extendable period of 5 days we will see each other in the
obligation to report the facts. In delivery figure: "not delivered, left notice".
A second attempt states "not delivered due to surplus-not picked up at the office."

He states that on *** DATE.1, his company suffered an attempted scam by impersonating
someone the mail account, email address, of your financial advisor, demanding
through a collaborating company that deposited an amount in an account in
a bank. This circumstance was notified to the respondent because she was in charge of the
treatment of the computer systems and those who had access to the servers of their
business. On this matter, it provides a copy of document 2, dated ***DATE.1, written to
claimed, in which he informs him and asks for explanations of what happened, adding "Les
We reiterate that once the contract for the provision of services has expired,
are obliged to return the servers and provide us with the passwords
access by refraining from accessing our servers.” delivery unknown
effective.

It is stated in the claim, “as of this day and the contract for the provision of
 ***DATE.2) is requested to
services signed on the day (date of termination of the contract
this entity the obligation to return the servers and provide us with the access codes.

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/20

I give in to them." Attached document 3, letter from the respondent addressed to the claimant,
of *** DATE.3, entitled "notice of non-payment for the provision of the contracted service between
the parties on 07/01/2011” and indicates in English that the claimant owes €409,724.50,
of what has already been informed, and that if it is not paid before 05/14/2019, "they will cease
in the provision of the service on ***DATE.2, suspending all activity and operations
nes”. He expresses the continuous delays in the payment of the invoices issued by his company.
to the claimed one, informing that this amount is accumulated since January 2017 by
the services provided. It tells him that “after a series of demands urged to
claimed in recent months, they are forced to claim the amount.

In document 3-1, which is provided, entitled "answer to the letter of ***DATE.3", the
claimant in writing of ***DATE.4, shows her surprise at the fact that she
he is “owed an amount greater than 10 million euros”. He informs you that they have inter-
filed a lawsuit against them and indicates that they have breached the "obligation of
have the servers owned by the claimant available to the claimant, an issue that is
causing serious damage to society and refuse to provide the ad-
minister that allows us to operate with our computer equipment, an issue that
constitutes a breach of the aforementioned contract.

It also reports that "we have recently detected that there has been a
identity theft of the claimant's workers to order third parties
that payments are made in current accounts that are not owned by the entity, which
which constitutes a serious attempted fraud.”

“Despite the fact that we have requested the precise passwords to be able to carry out an in-
investigation of what happened today have not provided us with these keys in a way that we could
We can access the system to carry out the corresponding investigations. Hereby
we exercise our power to terminate the aforementioned contract so that from
the date of receipt, no amount will be accrued for the provision of the indications.
two services.”

“We ask you to give precise instructions to your technicians so that they refrain from continuing
nuar providing computer services and proceed to return the computer material
of our property that was delivered to them at the time of signing the agreement.
deal." The actual delivery of this document is unknown, as no evidence is provided.
of reception.

It states in the claim that on 06/14/2019, the claimant sent a burofax to the
claimed informing you that the non-delivery of your servers and keys has been a
serious damage to them and that they will file a complaint with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. Provide a copy of the document, without accrediting a sample of its delivery.

Indicate as damages suffered.

-Since Friday 06/07, the claimant did not have access to the systems
related to accounting, he only kept possession of a copy of some
daily data of each company.

-The program provider informed the claimant that it would take a minimum of
a week to restore the installation of the programs: Account, payment management,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/20

bank reconciliation, fixed assets and accounting transfers. This meant that by not
recover the historical data the information was lost in digital format for the
accounting records.

 
Short term:

- impossibility of complying with obligations of the SII system, they should be declared

all invoices within 8 calendar days of issue.

-Similarly, to reduce the IGIC in the monthly declaration, you must inform
on all invoices received, the date to make the data declaration of
bills deductible on June 15. This means that the claimant will have to
pay this month plus IGIC to the Canary Islands Tax Agency,

-Difficulties in preparing draft accounts as of 05/31 that should have been

completed.

-ATECRESA informed the claimant that it would take up to 6 months to recover
the operability of the system, which implies that they have not been able to assess correctly
inventories and the posting of F&B cost to be delayed.

-It has not been able to issue the certified payments, so the payments have been made

by transfer or by issuing a voucher, which is very time consuming.

-Problems in completing the claimant's audits.

-The claimant did not have and does not have data to present before any inspection

of State Treasury or Canaria.

Long-term:

- delays in preparation and presentation of taxes, sanctions and fines

associated

-Impossibility of carrying out business analysis to prepare projections.

- Lack of digital support for fixed assets depreciation accounting.

-Additional expenses related to the reinstallation of work applications

   

additional technicians

Along with the claim, provide:

-Copy of a service lease contract dated 07/01/2011, showing a
party as client, SILVERPOINT HOTELS AND RESORTS SA, CIF A-38083101, and
as service provider SILVER POINT VACATION SOLUTIONS SA, CIF A-
76539030, in which it is entrusted with the provision of prevention services, maintenance
Maintenance and advice of computer equipment in the telecommunications environment
tions and informatics.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/20

-Copy of document 4 of the claimant's complaint to the Police, date
05/23/2019, for attempted fraud through identity theft suffered on
***DATE.1, which was not finally carried out, when it was detected that it was an operation
fraudulent portion.

It is indicated in point 4 of the complaint that a report from the company SIGNA-
LLIA, in charge of the administration and management of the computer systems of the company
plaintiff, in which, among other information, it states that it was the account of the di-
The claimant's financial director had been the target of a computer attack.

-Provides a copy of document 5 of the claimant's complaint to the Police, on 06/7/2019,
against the one claimed for professional malpractice and fraud, without further documentation than
reveal the reasons.

- Provides document 6, dated 06/13/2019, document from claimant to claimant entitled “car-
reply letter” “request for data based on arc rights”. “After passing the
legal term of 30 days established in the letter delivered by the representative of the re-
crying -in our offices on May 14, 2019 we have agreed to facilitate
limit the data that our company maintains of EXCEL HOTELES Y RESORTS SA.”
“Given their volume and for internal Signallia technical reasons, said information
training will be made available to you 10 days from the sending of this
letter".

-Provides document 8, writ of claim to the claimant, dated 06/20/2019, in which
indicates:

“In order to provide the requested information and comply with the regulations of the Protection
data, our company informs you that we have more than 5 terabytes of data
cough… The computer security team informs us that the safest way to
to treat said data is to follow the following steps…” acquire a hard disk with a
minimum memory capacity of 5 terabytes, to be delivered to the individual offices
considering that the download time will be two working days, that a
name and password to the authorized person and that once the hard drive is delivered and
its reading is confirmed, the claimed party would proceed to delete said data.

-Provides document 9, consisting of forms of "XL equipment report"
with PC name, manufacturer, model, and operating system and serial number, date
bios, 8 sheets. There is also, document 10, a list of description of equipment
computers, including, among others, servers and year of purchase and purchase prices,
prepared by the claimant and communicated internally on 04/25/2019, with the
text “Please try to find invoices for newer servers. Everything is-
are active in Central.”

-Provides document 12, copy of email, 07/1/2019, of an employee of the
claimant with a copy to two female employees, addressed to gacacostaytorres.com, possibly
their advice or similar, indicating that they have appointed two people to attend the
offices of the claimed, to, with a hard drive, try to recover the data. I ad-
he puts together a prepared letter in case he sees that something needs to be added. Emails follow
precedents dated 06/28/2019, in which the person of gacacostaytorres.com, in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/20

the same issue of "monitoring the delivery of data by SIGNALLIA to EXCEL"
referred to the importance of obtaining the data and the obstacles they put.

-Copy of a letter dated 07/01/2019 from the claimant to the respondent, indicating in reference
reference to the burofax received on 06/20/2019, where they indicated the procedure to be
guide to treat the data in the safest way, "we deliver a disk
hard” with it is indicated how to deliver the password, according to the email received on
06/27 sent by A.A.A. (of the claimed party) where they expand the requirements.

“In order to access said data, we want to make it clear that SIGNALLIA does not
can be exempt from liability once it has delivered the data as you
They are requesting because some open procedures on this case are in process.”

-Copy of an email from 07/01/2019 in which an employee claims her-
informs other people, including gacacostaytorres.com with a copy for two
people of the claimant: “I am attaching an email with the information that occurred today in the office
na designated when two of our EXCEL employees have gone with the hard drive
to recover our data. I would be grateful if you would inform us of how we should proceed.
der after these events. We have redacted in the email below”. I attach-
ta the explanation given in turn by email of the people who were to arrive
var the hard disk, indicating “at 12:30 we have moved to the offices of SIG-
NALLIA in order to deliver the external hard drive “We have stated our intention
tion of leaving the external hard drive, and we have been informed that A.A.A., allegedly
top management has left the offices and that they do not have the authority to re-
receive the delivery…”

-Copy of email of the maximum person in charge of the claimant, to the claimant-
dated 07/01/2019 stating “please can you fix this, our employees have
I went to their offices again and they have not been given what my team requested
you have the authorization to pick it up.”

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, dated 09/25/2019, is transferred to the
claimed copy of the claim, telling you to report on the decision you have
adopted on the claim, causes that have motivated the incidence and measures
adopted.

According to the postal certificate, the shipment was delivered on 10/21/2019 and was not attended to on
request.

THIRD: On 12/23/2019, the admission for processing of the
claim.

FOURTH: Dated 01/30/20120, in the phase of preliminary investigation actions
for the clarification of the facts, information is required to the claimed,
requesting if the data has been returned, and if not, inform of the causes that
motivate that they have not been returned, warning you of what the regulations establish
on data protection on the responsibility of the person in charge of the treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/20

The shipment was sent electronically, resulting in “automatic rejection” “date of placement”
available 01/30/2020 automatic rejection date 02/10/2020.”

On 02/18/2020, the respondent is required again, warning her of the obligation
of interacting telematically with the administration. The shipment that this time
is processed, exceptionally, in order to obtain the information, it is done through
from the postal service, to the address Avenida San Francisco, urbanization Oasis sur
3865, Los Cristianos, Arona, Santa Cruz de Tenerife (same address as above-
mind was collected) and it turned out: “returned to origin by unknown on 03/06/2020”.

On 03/31/2020, a new letter is sent to the respondent,
***ADDRESS.1, ***LOCALITY.1 (***PROVINCE.1), address of the Mercantile Registry
cantil, giving the result “Returned to Origin by Unknown on 06/22/2020”.

FIFTH: Entering the data of the claimed in GOOGLE, it appears that in the
BOE of 10/24/2020, an edict of the Commercial Court no. 2 of
*** PROVINCE.1, in which the reference of the claimed party is indicated, incurs in the
bankruptcy proceeding no. ***PROCEDURE.1, in which an order of ***FE-
CHA.5, rectified on 10/13/2020, declaring the bankruptcy of the company SIGNALLIA
MARKETING DISTRIBUTION S.A., CIF A76539030.

B.B.B. is designated as insolvency administrator, indicating its address.

It is indicated that the opening of the liquidation phase has been agreed.

SIXTH: The defendant, as of 10/5/2020, does not contain any sanction annotation
in the SIGRID application that manages the claims of the AEPD.

SEVENTH: In the "Monitoriza Business" application, the defendant appears, constituted on
03/03/2011, last financial year presented 2017, SME size, agency activities
sales travel: €7,764,059.

EIGHTH: On 12/10/2020, the director of the AEPD agreed:
 

“INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against SIGNALLIA MARKETING
DISTRIBUTION, S.A., with CIF A76539030, for the alleged infringement of article
28.3.g) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.”

"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, (as regards
successively, LPACAP) the sanction that could correspond would be an administrative fine
of 100,000 euros, without prejudice to what results from the investigation.”

“NOTIFY this agreement to SIGNALLIA MARKETING DISTRIBUTION,

S.A., with CIF A76539030, through the bankruptcy administrator, B.B.B.,”

The respondent did not make any allegations.

NINTH: On 06/03/2021, the trial practice period begins, agreeing:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/20

Consider reproduced the claim and its documentation, the documents obtained
and generated by the Inspection Services of the claimed party.

As additional evidence, it was requested

1) To the claimant: What was the legal act by which the name of the name was changed?
undersigned, client, of the 2011 service lease agreement, with the claim
mada, since in the same figure: SILVERPOINT HOTELS &RESORTS SA, then in
subsequent writs EXCEL HOTELS &RESORTS SA.

On 06/11/2021 a response was received indicating that on 12/21/2010 the
denomination to SILVERPOINT, they provide document 1, to vary to EXCEL HOTELS
on 02/08/2013, with a copy of document 2.

2) To the claimant, in their claim they provided several burofaxes and letters addressed to the
claimed, warning of the end of the relationship due to alleged non-compliance. is requested
that provide proof of receipt of the shipment and its content by the claim.
message of that communication, and I expanded the causes that motivated for the resolution of the
contract, and if the other party has challenged any point of it in court.

Provides a copy of document 3, document dated 06/13/2019 from the respondent addressed to the
claimant (already commented on in the background) explaining that after the deadline
of 30 days established in the letter delivered by the claimant at her offices last
do 05/14/2019 “we have agreed to provide you with the data that our company “maintains
ne” of the claimant, and “given their volume and for international technical reasons,
nas" of the claimed "said information will be made available to you 10 days from
from the sending of this letter.

Provides document 4, which was also attached to the claim, a letter in which
the claimed, on 06/20/2019, indicates to the claimant that he has the data of his
systems and that due to the size suggests the way to deliver them,

Document 5 that it provides is a document from the respondent regarding interference in the
email account of an employee of the claimed, facts that were reported
by the claimant. He comments on the meetings held with the claimant on the
affair.
It states that the defendant breached a marketing and reservation agreement and
when “we terminated that contract, “they canceled our access to the servers,
which led to the termination of the computer maintenance contract”. attach
document 6 mp3 format, a sound file of 2.25 minutes with a conversation
between two people, the caller who belongs to the hotels and the caller. The one who calls
one indicates that they have been left without computer access and the other party states that obe-
gives orders, the caller speaks of damage to the company and customers and explains that
has canceled their reservation contract, marketing contract, not the IT contract, and
they can't do this. The other part says that it will probably be reactivated,
If he gets the order.

3) To the claimed and claimant, what type of personal data was managed
for the one claimed, what periods were covered and how many hotels.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/20

Claimant indicates that: “Nationality, name and surname, postal address, telephone
mobile, email and date of birth”

The insolvency administrator of the claimed party indicates that he is aware that “previous months
Following the declaration of insolvency, 07/28/2020, the company no longer had any activity
na, nor were there workers in it”, and that it has no information on the questions
raised, trying to obtain them from the former director (whom he identifies) of the department
IT period until 12/31/2018 (that is, when the disagreements and the
question of the return of the data was not valid) and answers that they were data of
clients, containing nationality, names, addresses, telephone numbers, co-
e-mail addresses, and in certain cases dates of birth and marital status, for five
hotels you identify. The data stored was from 2012.

4) A claimant and claimed, if the claimed issued orders and instructions on
the processing of personal data that was managed through the services
vidores, copy of some. And if you didn't have problems with copies before
security, access etc.

Claimant states that he provides document 7, communication on instructions on
Regarding the processing of the data that SIGNALLIA “indicates to us on 06/20/2019”,
which is already mentioned in the present background.

Claimed indicates that data access was performed solely on a need basis
to meet them. In 2017 the “customer marketing” data was migrated to the system in
cloud “Salesforce” and reservations and PMS systems to “SIHOT” (hotel management system).
lera) stored in a virtual environment on Oracle servers, and there were no problems
with backup or access.

5) To claimed and claimant, who owned the servers in which the
claimed stored and managed the claimant's information, and for reasons
Does it appear that the claimant asked the respondent to transfer them?

Complainant indicates that they were his property and that “that is why he requested their transfer” Aporta
an internal email in which on 05/14/2019 the financial director communicates to XX (high
responsible for the claimant) a list with a description of assets, years of purchase and
price, including servers said to have invoices highlighted in green,
and others that "we can prove that we bought it."

Claimed states that she was the owner of the servers, and that the rest cannot
answer for being on medical leave at that time.

6) To claimant and claimed, if the computer equipment that appears in the “information” sheet
me of equipment "were owned by the claimed party and where they were physically located" and that
use was given to them.

Claimant indicates that they were owned by him, and were located, as he refers, in dis-
red hotels, up to four, plus the central one, identified by their initials. They attach documents
ment 8 that relate equipment and invoices.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/20

Respondent states that she does not know the cited sheet, but “SIGNALLIA owned and
managed teams both locally in their offices and in the service rooms.
res, but also in the server rooms located in each of the hotels.”

7) A claimant and claimed, reason why at least one of the backup copies
authority was not available from the claimant herself. If you currently have contracted
similar services and if they have changed their way of having access to files and
databases.

It states to the claimant that in the rental contract for services of
07/1/2011 in the first clause, three, it was established as a task covered by the provider
security copies, management of the backup policy and the custody
all of the same.

“Currently we have our own servers and also services contracted to companies
that offer us different products, compared to those that we have cred-
that allow us to manage them”.

“We have our own network and all the equipment from both the hotels and the
headquarters have administrative accounts” of the claimant.

“Now we have an internal IT department of the company, credentials-
team administrators, own network managed by the department, figure-
We act as authorized persons before the companies that provide us services, credentials
essential to be able to manage users, passwords, profiles, emails, etc.

Claimed indicates that it has not obtained information on the matter, however "SIG-
NALLIA stopped paying Salesforce invoices months before the declaration of the
contest "

8) To claimant and claimed, how did the aspect to which he was referred work with the claimant?
refers in the claim of the keys or passwords, in some points they refer to
“the administrator password that allows us to operate with our computers
ticos” that was what allowed said key, who made use of it by the
claimed or in the claimant and, who changed and how often it was changed
this key and by whom. What was the point of the teams key being in
power of the data processor.

The complainant states that the administrator password referring to computers would allow
make changes to computers such as installing applications, changing device settings,
network and, in general, any change that a normal user should not be able to make in
a corporate team for operational and/or security issues.

The administrator password referred to the servers with the control of users and passwords.
corporate passwords would allow creating new users, deleting them, blocking them, assigning them
to one complex or another, reset passwords when they forget them etc.

The administrator keys of the network systems allow to apply network changes,
create subnets, manage Wi-Fi, enable new network posts, monitor the network
to see if there are security problems etc.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/20

“Before, you depended completely on each and every one of the systems and even on all
two and each one of the services, even if they are from third parties as well, given that those who
they had the passwords for these services and were listed as authorized persons
nor were they from EXCEL HOTELS AND RESORTS SA.

Claimed indicates that, within the security protocol, each user had their own
pia passwords that were forced to change at least every three months.

9) To claimant and respondent: Inform if there is any pending legal matter related to
involved with this claim or has there been a ruling on liability, indemnity,
tion etc. on these facts, with a copy of the ruling. The complaint contained a
complaint against the claim or with eventual debts included in the contest of
creditors of the claimed

Claimant indicates that apart from the fact that his credit is "recognized" in the contest
of creditors, there is no other pending matter, and claimed indicates that it has not re-
received no judicial notification related to the matter.

10) A claimant, and claimed, it is appreciated that a process of attempting to in-
delivery of the data that the claimed handled of the claimant. You want to know if
Finally, the data is delivered, with accreditation of what was delivered, and date.

The claimant indicates that the then administrator of the claimant "signed a receipt of
a hard drive, but pending confirmation and verification that it never occurred
because information was missing. Provides document 9 in which XX, senior manager of the
claimant sends a letter to claimed, dated 07/25/2019, indicating that he confirms that he has
received the hard drive with the data that was kept by the claimed party and that has
to check and verify that all the data is there and the confirmation would be sent to the
claimed that all data has been successfully transferred.

They provide document 10 which is an internal email from 07/26/2019 in which an employee
tells XX “we need to know with which tool the data has been encrypted and some
some technical details that supposedly “were going to send us in an e-mail”, and added
They give the screen print of a conversation by “whatsapp between our informa-
matic and the claimed one”, in which it says “I have the external hard drive and I see that there is
a 3tb file with no extension. I understand that it will be encrypted”, and asks with what tool.
lie was encrypted. The other party asks if they didn't give him the details, to which he replied-
of, “just hard disk and password”, to which the other party replies that he has to talk
with another person, everything has to be through him.

Claimed indicates that it does not offer information on this point, "since it is not part of
This process"

TENTH: On 07/06/2021, a resolution proposal was formulated, with the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, a sanction is made for
SIGNALLIA MARKETING DISTRIBUTION, S.A., with CIF A76539030, for a
infringement of article 28.3.g) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.4 b) of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/20

RGPD, and article 74.k) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of 100,000 euros, of
in accordance with article 83.2.a) of the RGPD and 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD.) “

No allegations were received within the period granted to make them.

PROVEN FACTS:

1) The claimant, who administers the management of four hotels, states in her
claim that your company "has been affected by the malpractice of the claimed
by terminating a contract for the provision of services and denying us access to our
own servers, access to our passwords, in addition to refusing to return
all the data of our entity causing serious damage to our systems, to
our staff, in addition to great economic damage when everything was paralyzed
our work system” The personal data that was managed by the claimed
were those of: "Nationality, name and surname, postal address, mobile phone, e-mail and
Date of Birth"

2) The claimant, (previously called SILVERPOINT VACATION SOLUTIONS SA)
signed on 07/01/2011 contracted with the defendant the leasing of services of
prevention, maintenance and advice of computer equipment in the environment of
telecommunications and information technology, in order to assist in operational needs
and operation. As clauses, the most important are meant:

-Object: Provision of preventive and corrective maintenance services for equipment
computer systems of the client, which are listed in ANNEX 1 in the networks of
telecommunications. The support service provided included the problems of
access to the network of all computer equipment, remote access to e mail
corporate, or adequate access to files and programs (first clause 1.2),
manage the backup policy and guard the same and act as
interlocutor in all technical aspects with the different service providers
of telecommunication. The service would be provided 24/365.

In the contract, the third clause provides that the duration of the contract was initially
for two years, until 06/30/2013, with tacit extensions for periods of one year, if not
there is a complaint 30 days before the corresponding expiration date.
The resolution for non-compliance with any of the stipulations is also foreseen,
the complying party giving notice to the other with five days.

In the 12th clause it adds: termination of the contract: "any of the parties may give
terminate this contract at any time during its duration by
written communication to the other party not less than two months in advance of the
Interested completion date. As causes for resolution are indicated in addition to
the general ones of the commercial and civil code, "those derived from non-compliance by
part of the client of the obligations contracted under the contract.

Clause 11 entitled: "Data Protection", states:

“As a consequence of this contract for the execution thereof, the borrower
will have access to customer data of a personal nature that are subject to
legal regime provided for by the LOPD and its development regulations. For such purposes in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/20

compliance with the provisions of article 12 of the LOPD, the borrower
expressly states and undertakes to use and process the data with the sole and
exclusive purpose of fulfilling this contract, following in any case the
instructions received from the client. You will expressly refrain from giving the data
any use other than the agreed one and in particular will refrain from altering, using or
for their own business interest, or communicate them or allow third party access to
the same not even for their conservation. In the event that I had to
communicate the data to a third party for the development of this contract, the borrower
will notify the client so that the latter signs a contract with said third party.
Observe the maximum confidentiality of reservations regarding the data that is
provided by the client with respect to the development of the object of this contract
committing not to disclose any of this data to any third party, as well
as any other information that would have been provided regarding the company. A
return to the client, once the provision of services object of this
contract all the documents and files in which all or
some of the data whatever its support or format, as well as copies of
these."

-Ninth clause: “service compliance levels”: The client will determine the
organization of the services to be provided, dictating those generic regulations necessary
for a normal and optimal exercise of the services, remaining in any case in favor of the
borrower the power to direct and coordinate the service and staff
responsible for its provision."

3) In document 1 of the claim, the claimant asks the respondent for the
04/29/2019 as "instruction of the contract", "that as we have put them
repeatedly manifest”, “it is our intention to change the place in which
the servers of our company are stored, so that they pass to
be located in our central offices” “Today they are paying attention
ignoring our request”, announcing that if they do not make the servers available to you,
They will file a criminal complaint. The claimant does not provide evidence that there was
delivered to the claimant.

4) The parties, due to disagreements, decide to resolve their relationship. There is a writing of
claimed, document 3, of ***DATE.3, which indicates that, if you are not paid what is
owes him, he will terminate the contract with effective date ***DATE.2, answering the
claimant to the claimed party in writing dated ***DATE.4 that the counterparty owes them a
greater amount - greater than 10 million euros - in document 3-1, entitled
reply to the letter of ***DATE.3. Informs you that they have filed a lawsuit
against them and indicates that they have failed to comply with the "obligation to make available to the
claimant the servers of its property, an issue that is causing a serious
prejudice to the company and refuse to provide the administrator password that we
allows us to operate with our computer equipment, an issue that supposes a
breach of said contract.

5) The respondent had access to the claimant's servers and thus derives
also of the investigative actions carried out by the respondent for the purpose of
attempted scam in the hacking of the email account of an employee of the
claimant, who informed the Police on 05/23/2019. In these
investigations collaborated the claimed, being at the same time denounced by the claimant

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/20

subsequently before the Police, on 06/7/2019, for professional malpractice and fraud, without
more documentation revealing the reasons. The result is unknown as there is no
The parties have not stated anything, only in evidence they communicated that they do not have
judicial pending for any matter between them, except the inclusion of credits of the
claimant in the contest of the claimed.

6) The representative of the respondent indicated that she “owned and managed equipment
both locally in their offices and server rooms, but also in the
server rooms located in each of the hotels.”

7) The claimant provides an extensive list of computer equipment that was
located in different hotels managed by the claimed party, as well as servers,
that it certifies are its property that were managed within the commission contract
of treatment.

8) In document 6, dated 06/13/2019, the respondent indicated to the claimant: “petition for
data based on arch rights “” After the legal period of 30 days has elapsed
established in the letter delivered per day in our offices on 05/14/2019
we have agreed to release the data our company maintains from EXCEL
HOTELS AND RESORTS SA.
 
 ” “Given their volume and for technical reasons
SIGNALLIA internal said information will be made available to you 10 days after
counting from the sending of this letter. “

9) On 06/14/2019, the claimant, in a letter, indicates to the respondent: “the
time of the term of response of the right of access” that the claimant filed the
05/14/2019 to the one claimed, since it still does not deliver the data or return the
servers or provide access codes to access the system, and that the
Non-compliance has caused serious damage, communicating that they file a complaint
before the AEPD

10) On 06/20/2019, the respondent addressed the claimant, indicating how
proceed to receive a copy of the data (doc. 8 of the claim),
"Delivering a hard drive that will take two days to record the data." It detaches from
the emails of the claimant, that on 07/1/2019 her employees went to the headquarters
of the one claimed to try to recover the data and they were not allowed to leave the disk
hard to start the process under the pretext that the person responsible was not there. To date
07/26/2019, according to document 10 provided in evidence, there were still problems with the
Data owned by the claimant.

11) The respondent was for a time, without allowing the claimant access to her
data, its systems and its servers. The claimant in her claim states that
since 06/07/2019, and reiterates it in some subsequent writing, such as that of 06/14/2019, that
did not have access to the data, affecting accounting, billing, declaration
monthly taxes and invoices among others. Additionally, the claim was
delaying the delivery of data to be returned to the claimant for reasons unrelated to the
claimant. The claimant provides in evidence a sound file in which you can hear
to an employee of the complaining party who states that they have been left without access
computer and the other party states that he obeys orders, from "C.C.C.", a person who
appears in some writ signatures of the respondent. The caller talks about damages

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/20

to the company and clients and explains that the reservation contract has been cancelled,
marketing, not IT, and they can't do this. the other party says
which will probably be reactivated, if he receives the order. The claimant does not
indicates the date or period in which they could have been without service and in the writing of
claim explains the damages that the lack of access has caused.

12) The claimant, although she signed the receipt of an encrypted hard drive with information
of your data delivered by the claimed party, was pending confirmation and
verification that “never took place because information was missing”. It is credited because
claimant sent an email to the claimed on 07/25/2019, indicating that he should
verify that everything was there and send you a confirmation that everything was fine.
As can be seen in document 10 of his response in evidence by claimant,
07/26/2019, the next day he sends an email to the respondent that reveals that
the data is encrypted and the tool has not been sent to them. In the copy of
screenshot of WhatsApp between the parties on the absence of details
necessary to extract the files, the claimed party sends it back to the superior.

13) In the BOE of 10/24/2020, an edict of the Mercantile Court is published
no. 2 of *** PROVINCE.1, in which the reference of the claimed party is indicated
in bankruptcy proceeding no. XXX, in which an order of XXXX was issued, rectified
on 10/13/2020, declaring the insolvency of the company SIGNALLIA MARKETING
DISTRIBUTION S.A., CIF A76539030. The insolvency administrator indicates that "months
prior to the bankruptcy declaration, 07/28/2020, the company no longer had activity
any, nor were there workers in it.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data RGPD
recognizes each control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The RGPD refers -in section 8 of its article 4-, to the person in charge of the treatment or
commissioned as “the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that processes personal data on behalf of the data controller.
(here the claimed one), and article 4.7 of the RGPD “responsible for the treatment” or
"responsible" means the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the treatment; Yes
the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the ends and means of
treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the States
members”, here the claimant, who clearly establishes orders
regarding its servers, the service was interrupted and the data was not returned,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/20

being that all of them really belong to him for the management of the business, his
collection and treatment of which the claimant is directly responsible.

The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or act or other legal act with
under the law of the Union or of the Member States that binds the person in charge
with respect to the person in charge and establish the object, duration, nature and purpose
of the treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations
tions and rights of the person in charge (28.3 RGPD). Consequently, the figure of the person in charge
treatment is due to the need to respond to phenomena such as
outsourcing of services by companies and other entities, so
that in those cases in which the data controller entrusts a third party
zero the provision of a service that requires access to personal data,
for this access cannot be considered as a different treatment but rather serves to
responsible, carrying out the actions by the person in charge in the name and on behalf of
ta of the person in charge, as if he were the one who carried it out. The manager must
offer sufficient guarantees to apply appropriate technical and organizational measures,
so that the treatment is in accordance with the requirements of the regulation (art 28.1
GDPR).

For these purposes, the owner of the data does not exercise and cannot exercise the right of access
to some data that are his, for which he is directly responsible, having
collected and by establishing the data it collects and the purposes for which it is used. The
The right of access is a very personal right of the owner of the same, which is not
It must be confused with the person in charge of the treatment and the power that it holds over the data.
themselves. When a person in charge signs a treatment order contract with a
Third, what is done is to implement a legal business that must meet certain
requirements to understand that the data is processed not by a third party, but by a
third party on behalf of the person in charge, so there is no transfer,
transfer or transfer of data to a third party, but continue in the circle of
responsible.

Also and for this reason, there is the power of the person in charge and the specific obligation for the
in charge, when he receives an order to comply with it as it appears from the
article 29 of the RGPD: “The person in charge of the treatment and any person who acts
under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and has access to personal data
They may only process said data following the instructions of the person in charge, unless
are obliged to do so by virtue of the law of the Union or of the Member States”.

Certainly, as has been said, the instructions of the data controller
they can still leave some degree of discretion on how best to serve the interests
of the person in charge of the treatment, allowing the person in charge of the treatment to choose the
most appropriate technical and organizational means. In practice, if a person in charge of the
treatment engages a data processor to carry out the
treatment on your behalf, often means that the processor will be able to
make certain decisions for yourself about how to carry out treatment.
It is recognized that there may be some room for maneuver for the person in charge of the
treatment may also make some treatment decisions.
Here the defendant has a technical role in that the collection of customer data from
hotel is carried out by the claimant who enters them into the system, serving the
claimed the technical means with material provided by the same claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/20

Since the processing must be carried out on behalf of a data controller,
but not under their direct authority or control, acting “on behalf of” means serving the
interests of another person and recalls the legal concept of "delegation". In this
case, the server change instructions were not followed, it was left without access to
the systems deliberately by the claimed one and the
return of the data delaying and putting conditions to some data of the
responsible for unjustified matters.

It is the person in charge, in this case the claimant, who decides to put in the hands of the
in charge of the data so that it can carry out the tasks agreed upon in the
contract. In this case, activities of a technical telecommunications nature,
servers and access to systems and their storage. Even using the claimed
its experience and discretion in technical matters, the control of the data resides
in the claimant.

In the present case, it is a situation that affects the claimant in the
development of its activities with the data for which it is responsible, since despite
their requirements, the respondent has not delivered the personal data files or
servers, making it difficult and even impossible to carry out the activity
ordinary management of the usual commercial traffic of its activity.

In short, the infraction that is accredited and imputed to the claimed one is that of article
28.3.g) which indicates:

"3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act with
under the law of the Union or of the Member States, binding the person in charge
with respect to the person in charge and establish the object, duration, nature and purpose
treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations
cations and rights of the person in charge. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in part,
ticular, that the person in charge:
g) at the choice of the person in charge, will delete or return all personal data once
Once the provision of treatment services ends, and will delete the copies
existing unless the retention of personal data is required under
of the Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

Determines article 83.4 of the RGPD:

III

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11,
25 to 39, 42 and 43;

Article 74 of the LOPDGDD, indicates:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/20

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of
merely formal character of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

“k) Non-compliance by the person in charge of the stipulations imposed in the
contract or legal act that regulates the treatment or the instructions of the person in charge
of the treatment, unless it is legally obliged to do so in accordance with the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and this organic law or in the cases in which it is necessary
to avoid infringement of data protection legislation and
would have warned the person responsible or the person in charge of the treatment of this.

In no way was the delivery of the data owned by the
claimant, it is not proven to have been made effective, as recognized by the claimed that
all the data was never finally provided despite the time that had elapsed.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each control authority will have
of all the following corrective powers indicated below:

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case.

IV

The determination of the sanctions that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the RGPD, precepts that, respectively,
mind, have the following:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of the fines
in accordance with this article for infringements of these Regulations.
indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate
tioned and dissuasive.”

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an admissible fine
and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages
they have suffered;

the intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

b)
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to

alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied in
under articles 25 and 32;
any prior infringement committed by the controller or processor
I lie;

and)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/20

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy

to the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
the categories of personal data affected by the breach;

g)
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
given previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to
the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, direct or indirect.
straight, through the infraction.”

Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "San-

tions and corrective measures”:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the criteria of
graduation established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

commission of the offence.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of

the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis,
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
that there are controversies between them and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate,
of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

For the assessment of the sanction, its assessment was contained in the initial agreement without
detriment of the instruction, and as an amount for the estimated infraction, were considered
100,000 euros fine.

It was taken into account:
-The disturbance in the development of the actions of the claimant of special gr-
truth by preventing operation with the data (83.2.a RGPD) since 06/7/2029, adding
that on 07/26/2019 it is neither completed nor accredited by the one that carries out the treatment.
on behalf of the claimant who complied with said ordinary obligation established

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/20

established in the treatment order contracts, thus not considering delivery-
two (art 83.2.a) of the RGPD.

- The linking of the activity of the offender with the performance of data processing
personal (art. 76.2 b LOPDGDD).

The aforementioned circumstances and amount are ratified after the instruction and proposal.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanction whose existence has been accredited,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE a fine of 100,000 euros, on SIGNALLIA MARKETING
DISTRIBUTION, S.A., with CIF A76539030, for an infringement of article 28.3.g) of the
RGPD, in accordance with article 83.4 b) of the RGPD, and article 74.k) of the
LOPDGDD, with the concurrent circumstances in articles 83.2.a) of the RGPD and
76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SIGNALLIA MARKETING
DISTRIBUTION, S.A.

THIRD
 : Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
 
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period
established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Real
Decree 939/2005, of 07/29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 12/17,
by entering, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned person and the procedure number
that appears at the top of this document, in the restricted account number ES00
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. Otherwise, it will proceed to
its collection in executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/20

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
cited LPACAP. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves
the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the agency does not
was aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this resolution,
would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

