1/3

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00183/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00183/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity ASOCIACIÓN CULTURAL JCAM, (hereinafter "the
claimed entity"), for alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of
Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free
Circulation of these Data (RGPD), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 08/13/18, you had a written entry to this Agency, submitted by
A.A.A. (hereinafter, "the claimant"), in which he stated, among others, the following: "my
daughter, a minor, was enrolled in a modeling academy. The person in charge of
said academy/association has not made us sign any document in which
reflects our express consent for you to take photos, much less
to make use of them. There have been several unsuccessful attempts to get the
return of graphic material. Enrollment form is attached in which
no case refers to the protection of personal data ".

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD). A) Yes,
dated 10/04/18 and 02/13/19, two information requests are addressed to the
claimed entity.

THIRD: On 05/28/19, not having received any type of information by
part of the requested person, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the defendant, by virtue of the
powers established in art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
the Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the infringement of article 6.1) of the RGPD and
considered very serious in 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD for prescription purposes,
setting an initial sanction of warning, without prejudice to what would result in
course of the investigation of the procedure, arguing that: "in the
registration, of the claimed entity there is no reference to the regulations on
Personal data protection. In addition, according to the complaint, the entity did not
provide any type of document so that the parents or guardians of minors
registered, give their consent to the treatment of the photographs taken of the
sons".

FOURTH: According to the Certificate issued by the Correos entity, said requirement
was sent to the claimed entity, being returned to destination, 06/12/19, with the
annotation of "absent from the distribution". On 07/11/19, the publication is produced, in
the Single Edictal Board of the BOE, of the notification of the agreement to start the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23

sanctioning procedure PS/00183/2019, given the impossibility of notification in the
home.

FIFTH: The entity claimed has not submitted to this Agency any written or
allegation, within the period granted for this purpose.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

In the present case, it has been verified that, in the registration form, that the
JCAM Cultural Association uses to register students in their
courses there is no reference to the regulations on data protection of
personal character. Nor does it provide any type of document so that parents or
guardians of the minors enrolled, give their consent to the treatment of the
photographs taken of the children.

All of the foregoing could imply an infraction due to violation of article 6.1) of the
RGPD, considered in article 72.1.b), of the LOPDGDD as "very serious" to
prescription effects.

III

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

The sanction to be imposed must be graded according to the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with recital 148 of the RGPD itself, which provides for the
possibility of punishing with a warning in certain circumstances.

In view of the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the JCAM CULTURAL ASSOCIATION, for violation of article
6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/3

SECOND: TO REQUEST the JCAM CULTURAL ASSOCIATION, so that, within the
of one month from this act of notification, proceed to modify the models of
enrollment in their courses in accordance with current regulations, in what refers to
the protection of personal data.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity CULTURAL ASSOCIATION
JCAM.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

