35. Data Protection Activity Report
of the state representative for the

Data protection and freedom of information

Baden-Wuerttemberg

2019

Released

by the state representative for the

Data protection and freedom of information

dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a, 70173 Stuttgart

Telephone 0711/615541-0

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de

Email: poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de

Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/lfdi_bw

PGP Fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

Published as State Parliament Printed Paper No. 16/7777

Table of Contents
foreword

1. Priorities

1.1 From Baden-Württemberg to Europe -

LfDI evaluates the GDPR

1.2 Survey on the implementation of the GDPR

in the communal area

1.3 Data protection as a cultural task
1.4 Bodycam - Control visits at

police stations

1.5 Data Breaches in Medical Offices
1.6 E-mail advertising according to UWG - an exception in

narrow legal limits

1.7 The right to information under Article 15 paragraph 1

Letter c GDPR

1.8 Art. 15 GDPR in the context of employees
1.9 Technical and organizational data protection
1.10 More data protection also means more Europe!
1.11 News from the fine office
1.12 Bye Bye Twitter

2.

internal security

2.1. cell query
2.2 Eurodac
2.3 Abusive songs in the football stadium
2.4 Checking the implementation of communications from

Public Prosecutor's Office on the outcome of the case

3. Video Surveillance

3.1 Everything ready for the inspection? –

Video surveillance in gyms

3.2 Our daily bread - video surveillance in

bakeries

3.3 Legitimate Interests
3.4 Guidance on Video Surveillance

4. Traffic

4.1 Traffic
4.2 Authorities rely on postcards
4.3 Development of Artificial

Intelligence (AI) in the field
Traffic

3

7

7

10
11

17
20

23

25
26
28
36
40
42

47
47
48
49

52

56

56

57
58
59

63
63
63

64

1

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 5th

justice

67

5.1 How do notaries fulfill their data protection laws

Information and documentation requirements?

67
5.2 Implementation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 in the field of justice 69

6. Municipal

6.1 The “List of Conspicuous Ones”
6.2 Community Network

privacy

7. Health and Welfare

7.1 Be careful when sending e-mails
7.2 Data protection in outpatient and inpatient care
7.3 The obligation to provide information in the event of collection

personal data of the data subject
by social service providers

8. School and colleges

8.1 Usage Regulations for Information Technology

at a school

8.2 Revision of the brochure

“Privacy in day-care centers”

8.3 Revision of the administrative regulation on the

Privacy in Public Schools

9. Privacy Policy

9.1 Temporary employment - processing on behalf?
9.2 Parking surveillance by private companies
9.3 Data Protection Liability
9.4 Data protection in property management
9.5 Data protection in the banking industry
9.6 Consent texts and data protection information using the example

raffle tickets and sweepstakes
on websites

9.7 On the High Seas
9.8 News from the field of international data traffic

10. From the office

10.1 From the office
10.2 Press and Public Relations

Information about the service

73
73

74

77
77
77

81

87

87

89

90

95
95
96
97
99
101

106
108
109

113
113
115

121

Appendix

2

from 123

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 Foreword

2019 – #GDPR works!

In terms of data protection, things are going uphill
Schlag: After the all-outshine
Deadline May 25, 2018 and the advisory
marathon of the first year of EU data
General Protection Regulation (GDPR).
we already have the 2nd activity report
according to the new European legal
gimme before.

Since 2018, the GDPR has been in force throughout
EU directly applicable data protection
right, and it bestowed on data protection
an unprecedented attention
resulting in a flood of inputs, requests
and complaints, in numerous inquiries
after consultation, after training and
tion reflected as well as in one
unusually large media interest.

Our experience in 2019: It lets
not after! The GDPR has arrived –
and she won't go away!

The number of complaints remains high
level that take advice requests
by no means off, and also the public
Interest continues unabated. For us
there is no doubt: the GDPR works.
It works through its clear, free
friendly regulations of information,
Correction and deletion claims
Citizens, through clear (and
often complex) announcements to the
Those responsible (i.e. companies and
Authorities that process personal data
ten) and last but not least by very massive
threats of fines.

Another finding from the past
genen year: We are now
one of the best equipped data
protection supervisory authorities in Germany

(and Europe) – but we can't all-
les: Advice and control work
really good on its own –
but not at the same time. We can - and
We proved that in 2018
provided - advised, we can also - that
we have with our wide-ranging
Control actions of the year 2019 shown –
also effective and controlled with a sense of proportion
ly. But both at the same time is (still) possible
Not. We have enough staff for that
despite the really high personal
don't put off my colleagues. What
about has meant that we will in 2019 willy-nilly
voluns our consulting services
back somewhat in favor of the control density
had to drive. And that the waiting times
in the case of submissions by citizens
are still too long.

Our core tasks (advising citizens
and citizens as so-called
met” or as for data processing
"Responsible" in companies, authorities
and associations/enlightenment and
raising public awareness on issues
of data protection/regulatory authorities
enforcement of data protection law
Test measures and sanctions)
the 2019 supplemented by the “European
dimension” of the new law: as part of a
ner European data protection administration
we coordinate with 48 other
supervisory authorities – the administrative culture
structure and assertiveness
but "tick" clearly differently than we do. Of the
Process towards a uniform acting
European data protection supervision
certainly still several years to go
take. But he is, as the saying goes,
without alternative. As an authority we are in Eu-
arrived and have a
taken a pleasant place: As
German representative in the influential
Social Media Group of the European Data
data protection committee, as rapporteur

3

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 on key issues of the GDPR
and as a conversation partner for international
active companies and media.

The focus of our activities was and
the consulting work continues: In
thousands of one-on-one conversations,
current events and seminars,
by means of dozens of orientation aids in
our ever-expanding internet
net appearance ("hit" is still ours
Practical guide "Data protection in the association")
or via Twitter, where we have more than 5,000
Followers from the privacy community
millions of citizens
Privacy information reached. There-
but that's the end of it now: the through
the European Court of Justice and lastly
by the Federal Administrative Court
clearly confirmed legal situation does not allow it
more to, as a data protection supervisory authority
de active part of a social media platform
to be having quite significant doubts
with regard to their data protection compliance
are exposed. That's a shame, because the
lively communication also on this
this level was exciting and fruitful,
but we have to be consistent – and
make every effort that way
good and constructive communication
legally compliant and independent others
switch channels. It is also clear: The
new legislation will also have consequences for the
Presence of public and non-public
Have jobs on social media. Like it
running now, it can not stay. we will
to push the dialogue here further and
for good (at least acceptable) solutions
search for Ultimately, there is the GDPR
here, too, the direction is clear.

"If it's not reasonable, then it is
no data protection!” We have this motto
also taken to heart in 2019, for example with the
monies where we build our reputation as a regulatory
authority quickly, constructively, but also

to act consistently.
But we don't have eyes for it either
closed that the GDPR as a legal
not norm in all areas of wisdom
the final conclusion is - and have decisive
for the German Data Protection Conference
renz DSK, but also in the "Ländle" with everyone
affected actors from the trades
the middle class to science
and authorities in evaluating the DS
GMO worked. The GDPR itself
has to get better.

Looking at staff development
can be said: The occupation of our
vacancies were not a problem,
even in the highly competitive area of
not. The LfDI can obviously
an attractive task and a good one
Build reputation, we are also for colleagues
from the administration of the country, for inter-
Essents from other German
supervisory authorities and also for
lige from the private sector obviously
a job with attraction. There
strengthens us now in turn from Parliament
ment decided, in a federal comparison
uniquely good increase in staff
in an excellent way. We're off
2020 a training and further education center
trum of data protection and information
build freedom of operation and our benefit
for the citizens, but also
companies, companies and authorities
further expand the country.

Ultimately, however, data protection is not (only)
made by the supervisory authority, otherwise
by the citizens
perceived (or not) and
by the responsible bodies in
companies and administrations more or
lived less convincingly. What
We as those affected and measure interpretation
holder of fundamental rights
future ours
Right to informational self-

4

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 Are we just willing con-
sumenten, which amenities and
“Being there” seems more important than that
Opportunity to enter the digital age in a self-determined
age to step? A basic right without
bearer of fundamental rights, its substance
also appreciate, has no future –
not even with a European DS
GMO.

The ongoing momentum of the GDPR
we continue to take op-
timistically - the basics for our
more confidence can be found in this
activity report. Thanks again
all my employees
bitern with my deputy mr
Broo at the top for her amazing work that
goes far beyond what can be expected - we
Data protectionists are just "conviction
perpetrator". I can thank this one
But also with the members of the
State Parliament of Baden-Württemberg, which
This task will also be decisive in 2019
designed, accompanied and promoted
and with the state government and administration
and the local authorities for always being fair
and largely consensual
work.

Your country representative
dr Stefan Brink

5

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 6th

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 1. Priorities
1.1 From Baden-Württemberg to
Europe - LfDI evaluates the DS
GMO

The year 2019 was also under for us
the sign of the evaluation of the GDPR.
According to Art. 97 DS-GVO, by May 25th
2020, i.e. two years after it came into force
of the GDPR, this of the European
be evaluated by the Commission. To this
Purposes can use it by Member States
and the regulatory authorities information
request.

1.1.1 Field report of the independent

data protection supervisory authorities
Federal and the states

The Conference of Independent Data
protection supervisory authorities of the countries and
of the Federal Government (Data Protection Conference - DSK)
has established itself as a body for all German
ten protection supervisory authorities
prepared by a working group
has used, the feedback of all
to coordinate supervisory authorities
into a unified report
grasp. The chair of this working group
ums was awarded by the LfDI Baden-Württemberg
accepted.

From the beginning of the year to the
decision of the report by the DSK in
November we have five in collaboration
other supervisory authorities in total
five days of meetings and constant coordination
planning work and taking into account
tion of the resolution of the DSK and their
working groups drafted a report
who first manufactures the principle work
working group and then the DSK itself
ted. On November 06, 2019, the

98. DSK the experience coordinated by us
ment report approved. The report
is on the homepage of the DSK and the
LfDI Baden-Württemberg in German and
available in English and was
by the DSK chair to the European
Data Protection Committee (EDPB).

In addition to those required by law in the event of a
Evaluation request by the Commission
specified topics of Art. 97 paragraph 2
GDPR, the focus was on any changes
change due to the application
experiences in the first year. This
both in relation to existing regulations
as well as to the possibly necessary
agile creation of further regulations.
Also the recitals of the GDPR
were included in the considerations
gen. The issue of dealing with any
Problems with the implementation of the GDPR
in federal and state law has not been incorporated into
included the DSK report. This
happened to the knowledge of the DSK by a
Query by the Commission with the national
interior ministries. According to the
LfDI can arise from problematic national
nal implementation standards, however
Need for changes to opening clauses
DS-GVO itself arise.

Significant results of the DSK were published in
dealt with the following main topics:

In the information and transparency
obligations according to Art. 13 and 14 DS-GVO ha-
there are implementation problems in practice
shown, e.g. B. in the case of telephone data collection
exercise. This is particularly about the
question whether first a more general in-
formation at a central location is sufficient and
specific information only upon request
can be submitted later. also
beginning and content of the information requirements
could possibly be more workable and
be defined in a more citizen-friendly way. In the

7

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 1. Focuses In practice, the question sometimes arises
the suitability for everyday use of the regulations of
GDPR. ways to facilitate
Application of the information requirements
Obligation to report data protection
mandated to the regulators as well
the right to a copy under Article 15 paragraph 3
GDPR came into focus.

A widespread concern about the
Possibilities of sanctions of the DS-GVO
based on the experience of regulators
led to many data breaches being reported
which actually have no data at all
ten breakdowns are or their risks already
have long since been eliminated. Therefore were
exorbitant rates of increase in the
to record data breaches.
The DSK has already come up with possible solutions
dealt with.

In the area of earmarking,
in practice mainly questions regarding
on the legal basis and the
stipulations of the further use of the per-
personal data when changing the purpose
result.

Data protection by design can be found in the
Hardly any resonance in practice, since the user
scope of the DS-GVO manufacturers
just not recorded. The GDPR provides
but data protection by design by default
Principles on that are in the matter though
addressed to manufacturers, but accepts them
not as responsible in the duty. There-
here the question is raised whether also
Manufacturers, suppliers, importers and
sellers are held accountable
should, as in product liability law
is already the case.

In the main topic “Powers of
Supervisory authorities and sanctions practice"
have questions about that in particular
concept of "processing".

Art. 58 paragraph 2 lit. b GDPR and the
cooperation and the right to information
of the supervisory authorities in the fine proceedings
ren proved to be particularly urgent. in a
nem further in Art. 97 paragraph 2 lit. b DS-
GMO listed priority
the experiences of the supervisory authorities
with the topics "determination of
ments, cooperation and coherence”
shown.

In the case of direct advertising,
different constellations the question of
Admissibility, which through the creation
a specific legal basis
could become.

One of the central data protection policy
That is the challenge of our time
profiling. Despite the existing definition of
nition becomes the process of profiling
as such by most norms of the
DS-GVO - for example for automated development
divorce finding - not recorded, so
an assessment usually only according to the general
my facts of Art. 6 DS-GVO
he follows. The DSK calls for a tightening
of the applicable legal framework
the use of personal data
Effective and profiling purposes
to set actually enforceable limits.

With the focus on accreditation
te through a clarification in the GDPR
a significant national responsibility
question clarified and oversight by the
German data protection supervisory authorities
be ensured.

On the current dominant topic in
the scientific debate
tion, the issue of data protection in
field of artificial intelligence and
automated
decision-making
ren, the DSK also sent theirs
"Hambach Declaration on Artificial In-

8th

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities intelligence - Seven data protection law
Requirements” from April 3, 2019 to the
EDSA. Although the requirements contained
are primarily based on future cases
and refer to norm constellations
the German data protection supervisory authorities
the observance of these principles in
the future evaluation processes
considered essential.

1.1.2 Contribution to the evaluation of the LfDI

Baden-Wuerttemberg

Since May 25, 2018, the state
commissioned for data protection and the
Freedom of information Baden-Württemberg
legally obliged to comply
implementation of the GDPR in Baden-Württemberg
to supervise and be responsible
chen in the country to advise. For evaluation
the DS-GVO I would therefore also like to say
Assessments based on the previous
practical experience of my independent
result from the supreme state authority,
the European Commission for information
bring nothing.
Not only from the knowledge which
almost a year as chairman of the
working group for the German evaluation
give, but above all from the innumerable
timely feedback, which the LfDI
from the country - be it for
events, training courses or directly
We have exchanges with those responsible
own contribution to the evaluation
is working.

Because the circle of those responsible in
Baden-Württemberg is with the federal
average only partially comparable.
According to the Ministry of Economy and Finance
zen Baden-Württemberg
small and medium-sized businesses each
second euro turnover in the country and
two-thirds of social security
compulsory employees. The middle class

is thus the backbone of the economy in
Baden-Wuerttemberg. Also dedicated
to a report by the Ministry of
cial and integration Baden-Württemberg
According to almost every second Baden-Württemberg
berger in his spare time on a voluntary basis (over
48 percent). That makes us the front runner.
Baden-Württemberg is both a state of
voluntary work as well as entrepreneurial
intellectual and thus has its own, specific
Challenges and concerns of one
practical data protection.

In order to share the experiences of those responsible
chen and users of the DS-GVO in
Baden-Württemberg to take into account
we have one on June 28, 2019
Hearing under the banner "#DS-GVO
works (?) - 1 year DS-GVO - practical experience
ments and evaluation” in collabora-
work with and on the premises of
Chamber of Industry and Commerce Region
organized in Stuttgart. For impulse lectures
Representatives were invited
Supervision, authorities, business, science
society, legal profession, associations and
processors. In a dedicated to this
configured e-mail inbox were also
In addition, letters throughout the year
collected from all parts of the country
and evaluated. These country-specific
In addition to experience, knowledge
ment report of the DSK a contribution to
Evaluation of the GDPR by the European
ic legislature.

Overall, it has been shown that the
responsible in Baden-Württemberg itself
solutions that are more suitable for everyday use in many areas
ments and some regulations
hard on data processing
activities of small companies or
official work. in the
Questions about
to a possible relief for the domestic
information, transparency and information

9

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priority obligations. But it also addresses questions
to obligations to create processing
directories and naming
by data protection officers, as well
the introduction and supervision of a
liability as well as ambiguities in the
joint responsibility, in particular
others in the "social media" area.
Despite numerous samples and practical advice
About my and other regulators
still appears to be a significant legal
uncertainty among those responsible
to be at hand. have contrary to expectations
worried about sanctions – at least
below our practice – not as a priority
exposed. This may not least
to lie that we are in Baden-Württemberg
have repeatedly made it clear that it is
we care that those responsible
on the way to a data protection
have made compliant processing.
About 75% of the companies gave way
DIHK survey indicates that the GDPR (to
at least partially) implemented
to have. My experiences with it are in
Overall congruent.

The data protection supervisory authority in Baden-Würt-
temberg is based on the motto “If
it's not useful, it's not data-
protection". Under this objective should also
our report that we sent to the EDPB
the, to be understood.

1.2 Survey on the implementation of the DS

GMOs in the municipal sector

The municipalities in Baden-Württemberg
are as responsible public bodies
to a large extent with the implementation
tion of the new requirements from the
General Data Protection Regulation
takes. In order to continue to provide adequate
services in the municipal sector
provide, requires my office in
reliable and

comprehensive information as well the
Cities and municipalities in the country their work
already adapted to the new requirements
fit and where they still need to improve
have to.

Against this background, the summer
2019 a comprehensive questionnaire
all 1101 Baden-Württemberg com-
munen sent, the implementation
status of the new data protection law
asked. The municipal administrations
an online catalog with 50 questions
lays out the most important areas of the new
en data protection law had as its content.
The communities received an email
individual participation link and had in
the questionnaire also the possibility
to give individual answers. in the
968 municipalities (around 87%) have the result
took part in the survey.
12% of communities have defied
multiple requests not involved,
among them, 6% never have the survey link
called.

The evaluation of the survey clearly shows
that the communities as a whole get through
the requirements of the General Data Protection
regulation feel heavily burdened. to it
to clarify with an example: Dem
Processing directory of the responsible
there is one in data protection
central importance to. But almost one
Third of the communities have not yet
started setting one up. The-
So far, these communities have not
Overview of the processing activity
in their area of responsibility.
More than half of the congregations gave
indicate that there are problems creating a
there is a processing directory.

Simultaneously with the evaluation of the survey
ge my office has a brochure
for the Baden-Württemberg municipalities

10

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focal points published in the survey
expressed need for advice
picks up and a further orientation in
to provide municipal data protection.

The evaluation, the press release and
like the brochure "Data protection at
think" can be accessed here.

is working,

Key Results of the Survey:
LfDI and Ge
The communication
mean
the cooperation
is pleasingly high.
operational readiness
 
The municipalities are ready and willing
lig, the
"Challenge DS
GVO”, but there is a lack of know-how
How, staff and support –
especially in small communities.
 
The status achieved so far in terms of
Data protection and data security is in many
areas insufficient.

1.3 Data protection as a cultural task

What associations do citizens and
Citizens if they are attached to any
authority think?

And, to go one step further
hen:

What associations arise when
they think of an authority whose
Main task is to become familiar with the topic
to deal with data protection?

Whether the citizen or the citizen to do so
probably an evening with sinologists to
menfeld China, an evening with the
Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection
nister dr. Katarina Barley or even the
Production of a music video that
dancing state representatives present
animals?

All this is just a small excerpt of-
see what I've done this year.

At the beginning of the year I
together with the Viennese singer Daniela
Flickentanz (yes, that's her real name), the
Stuttgart Media University, and some
of my employees
ter a music video on the subject of data protection
produced. From the first contact
me up to the day of shooting were pretty accurate
four weeks - and these four weeks has
quite a bit.

But we made it, mid-February
ar 2019 was the jointly developed
screenplay, the song lyrics were adjusted,
the stage directions ready, all
Props organized and last but not least
Daniela Flickentanz from Vienna to Stuttgart
arrived.

So it could start...

11

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main areas of focus The result was data protection of the whole
other kind...

to catch. You can also open this evening
track youtube.

Our music video not only
sang and danced, no this video there
- I think - in a humorous and a-
common way recommendations for action
on the subject of data protection - so to speak
swinging how-to.

Which authority can
main, their legal advisory
commissioned in the form of a music video
to become	…	!?

You can find our music video on our
website or on YouTube.

My special thanks go to Daniela
Flickentanz and the highly professional
Team of the Media University, Stuttgart
and of course my experimental
happy employees. I'm still
excited about what we create together
to have!

With that we are right at the beginning of the
res boarded with an attraction – and
that wasn't the only attraction of the
year 2019!

In March I was able to
Minister of Justice and Consumer Protection
dr Bring Katarina Barley to Stuttgart.
Together with our proven co-
operations partner, University of Media,
Stuttgart, we met as part of a
Panel discussion on the topic:

 #Doxxing #data theft #digital ethics
Our digital life – no alternative?!

dealt with. the event
was fully booked, even the additional
chen standing room could the rush and
the enthusiasm of the audience

In May we set out for that
Made the Middle Kingdom - of course only
virtual and acoustic.

CHINA -

Empire, Terracotta Warriors, Chinese
Wall, Ming Dynasty, Chinese Script
sign, the forbidden city, buddhism,
Chinese tea, silk, Beijing opera, …

Who does not start with all these terms
dream of...

However, the modern popular
public China not only about this historical
cal and cultural goods. The current
developments in the Middle Kingdom
no more reason to dream - completely
on the contrary... they exhibit dystopian
trains up. The country has a social credit
or social scoring system introduced,
based on a reward or punishment
system based. The population
holds bonus points for behavior that
positive from a state perspective
is. This includes, for example, caring for
the parents. Conversely, if
desired behavior Malus points in de-
brought train. Even the disregard
a red traffic light gives rise
to reduce the individual points contingent
adorn. Provided a certain minimum amount
is undercut at points, reacts
the state with reprisals such as
Access to study or training places
zen, use of flights and trains, ...
And not just for the polluter –
the reprisals can affect all families
lien members extend.

All this goes hand in hand with extensive technical
nical surveillance paired with social

12

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main focus Monitoring by neighbors, colleagues
and “friends”… There is no question that
dealing with someone who is in debt
has and whose points account rather in the
is located in the lower regions, also
negative effects on one's own
cial status and thus also on the
can have an existence. The consequence of this
means for those affected and their families
s, possibly in addition to the already mentioned
ten reprisals, social isolation.

These developments offer for me as
Freedom guards cause for great concern.
It was therefore important to me to
to inform developments competently and
with interested parties and experts
facts and related issues
to critically examine the effects and
to discuss. In May 2019 I have to
entered the Church of St. Maria in Stuttgart
load.

Under the motto “China – the country behind
the smile” first granted us Ms
dr Ricarda Daberkow from the Linden Museum
in the historical development of a
thousand-year-old culture insight. After a
After a short break, Dr. Ma
reike Ohlberg from the Mercator Institute for
China Studies (MERICS) in the People's
Republic of China already practiced Social
Scoring and its implications for the
individuals in everyday life.

The extent to which state surveillance
already now in the Middle Kingdom
includes, could not reach any of the listeners
pass by without a trace. All the more since that
still dormant potential immeasurable
other monitoring options
offers that of a complete synchronization
and thus the abolition of any
home sphere.

China

The land behind the smile

Introduction: China - Country, People & Culture

Sinologist Mrs. Dr. Ricarda Daberkow

The Digital Big Brother? Citizen Rating in China's Social Credit System.

Sinologist Mrs. Dr. Mareike Ohlberg

Small Chinese specialties are offered during the break.

Admission free.

May 16, 2019 at 7:30 p.m

Church of St. Mary

Tübinger Strasse 36, 70178 Stuttgart

The lectures of the two sinologists and
also the subsequent discussion at the
fet with small Chinese delicacies
have made it clear that freedom in
every form is a good that is not at all high
can be appreciated enough. However
also became clear that all these
is not a matter of course, but
that each of us contributes every day
gen to maintain this freedom and to
receive.

I remembered a little one evening in the
felt reminded last fall. At this
evening I have together with the Stutt-
garter inner-city cinemas, the Hollywood mo-
presented as "THE CIRCLE". This ba-
based on the idea that
only the person who is constantly observing
attention is aware, behaves correctly. What
in a person who is unobserved
tet believes is not always guaranteed.

The price for this is called PRIVACY!

13

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main points Shocked everyone who thinks critically
Man this approach far from himself. That
The Middle Kingdom does not seem to take this approach
only taken over, but consistently
to have developed.

In September 2019 I managed one
Panel discussion with representatives
of the Enquete Commission "Artificial In-
intelligence” of the German Bundestag
present. I have this in common
with the state representative of Rhein-
state-Palatinate, Prof. Dieter Kugelmann,
to the Ernst Bloch Center in Ludwigs-
port, invited.

One of the big buzzwords of the year
2019 was “Artificial Intelligence”. in the
April 2019 my colleagues and
I at the 97th Conference of Independent
gigantic data protection supervisory authorities
federal and state (DSK) the "Hamba
cher declaration on artificial intelligence”
developed and approved.
He's been dreaming for centuries
man from the artificially created, in
higher intelligence human-like machines
nature. For that there is in the literature
and history many prominent
ker, researcher and inventor. The Greek
Forge god Hephaestus, Leonardo da
Vinci and Mary Shelley's Frankenstein
en only mentioned here as an example.

14

With the complex of topics Artificial Intel
intelligence (AI) are not just hope
connected - but also many
fears and existential concerns.

In the medium term there will be almost no life
Give more to the practice area, not to the AI
will have an impact. Is the use of
artificial intelligence already today
te spread more widely than many of us
let dream ...

The evening in Ludwigshafen was
thought the invited speakers
to leave the podium to their expertise.
Three members of the Commission of Inquiry
on "Artificial Intelligence - Society-
social responsibility and economic,
social and ecological potentials".
German Bundestag, Dr. Petra custom
(The Left), Dr. Anna Christmann (Federal
nis 90/The Greens), the experts
Lena-Sophie Müller from the D21 initiative
and Professor Doris Aschenbrenner
from Delft University of Technology (NL)
offered insight into their work and the associated
related social issues.
Following the panel discussion-
the questions and statements of the
likums made it clear again how
already a matter of course in many areas
is used and which con-

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus sequences and further questions arise from it
result.

the numerous contained in the lecture
transported in short video clips.

Ultimately, a significant
point again and again. the zen
The central question is no longer: “What
is technically possible?" but "What
we as a society - in which direc-
do we want to develop?”.

There is no question that this all-encompassing
don't send questions in one evening
can be answered. But the evening
was a good start most diverse
social groups together
bring and talk to each other
come.

It's never too early to appreciate the value of private
sphere to draw attention and that
applies in particular to children and adolescents
che. Together with cooperation partners
I take this topic with great
joy every year. with a
gene of the cooperation partners is one
annually recurring and ongoing
cooperation emerged.
I support the initiative "Data
protection goes to school” of the professional association
of the data protection officer German
lands (BvD) e. V. not only, I build these
together with my co-workers and
employees actively. For that I have
my colleagues of the
their data protection supervisory authorities
a joint action across the
invited across borders. The countries-
overarching agreement and coordination
tion was in Baden-Württemberg.

The initiative "Data protection goes to
le" sensitizes students
to a conscious handling of the
ternet and social media. Especially
entertaining and above all clear
through the abstract topic of "data protection".

On the occasion of Safer Internet Day on 5.
February 2019 we have various campaigns
days in different cities and schools
len Baden-Württemberg offered and
carried out. The events offered
for young people the opportunity, for example
Limits of Big Data, Smart Home and
also the use and data transfer
when using messenger services
the price of disclosing private information
information and data to be viewed critically
ten. Convenience versus privacy
became a big issue. Clearly
was also that free offers
should be vigorously questioned.
Is the messenger offered free of charge
service really free? From which
reason many companies offer customers
thinking cards and associated discounts
and loyalty bonuses? Fast became for
the students realized that in
the present time no company something
has to give away.

I was particularly impressed by the
tered feedback from young people,
of the teachers, the school
management and the lecturers
centers of the respective supervisory authorities
as well as the press echo in the regional
newspapers happy. do all this
yet clearly how important and meaningful it is
is, children and young people in dealing with
their personal data on the Internet
net and what challenges
Demand it also represents this topic
with a word appropriate to the target group
to explain sweetheart.

15

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 1. Main issues: How can
app and internet users
net services for data protection sensitive
and support with tools? Included
the teams developed some demanding
le software solutions to raise awareness
the user, for training purposes
subject of self-data protection and
support of companies in the implementation
compliance with data protection regulations
at the end of the semester by a jury,
in which also one of my employees
is represented.

https://www.dhbw-stuttgart.de/themen/
university/registration/2019/02/study-
de-develop-solutions-for-the-data-
protection/

A continuation of the cooperation between
the Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University
berg and my authority is already with
again in the winter semester 2019/2020
started.

At the end of a year with many
highlights and attractions
I te again in October 2019
the data protection autumn conference
as
present patron. organizer
this symposium is the professional association
the data protection officer German
lands (BvD) e.V.. The patronage
I got mine this time with my two
Bavarian colleague Thomas Kranig, President
sident of the Bavarian State Office for
Data Protection Supervision, and Prof. Dr. tho
mas Petri, Bavarian state representative
for privacy, shared. As already in the
last two years stood the first
two days under the motto “Economy
meets supervision".

The third day of the event offered like-
the one special. under the mot
to (supervisory) authority helps authority –

Source: published in the Rhein-Neckar-
Newspaper of February 6, 2019, Photograph:
Helmut Pfeiffer

Specifically, in Baden-Württemberg alone
temberg a total of around 600 students and
Schoolgirls in Stuttgart, Esslingen, Dit-
zingen, Walldorf, Bad Friedrichshall, Lud-
wigsburg, Ettlingen, Lorch and Pforzheim
with the joint and transnational
pending action of the supervisory authorities in
Cooperation with the BvD achieved.
However, it also became clear that the
allowed in schools is much, much higher than
we could satisfy with our action-
ten.

Summary of our international activi-
on:

We will continue!

More information about the initiative
Privacy goes to school, see
the website of the BvD.

We have also been able to do this since 2017
existing cooperation with Dualen
University of Baden-Württemberg successful
continue rich.

Under the guidance of Professor Dr.
Tobias Straub, Michael Schlegel and Ivan
na Marevic developed a total of eight
student teams applications too

16

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities "Data protection - understanding and shaping"
we have specifically focused on the circle of authorities
specialist lectures tailored to the
ge and discussions offered.

For the year 2019 I had the motto:
Go on!
Looking back I can say -

Source: BvD e.V. / Uli Schneider

The autumn data protection conference offers
Lectures, discussions, expert
talks, guidelines for action, examples
from practice for everyone who is familiar with the
ma data protection are concerned. The formats
“Economy meets supervision” and also “(super-
supervisory authority helps authority" are federal
therefore unique and offer the possibility
bility topics, questions and problems directly
with experts and representatives of
to be able to discuss with supervisory authorities.

The response to our event is
enormous. With around 300 participants
nationwide it is the current am
most frequented event
topic of data protection. In this
Year was most of the places already
fully booked before the event
gram was published.
All this makes it clear that the subject
Privacy and the exchange between
representatives of entrepreneurs and authorities
no longer away with the supervisory authority
is to think about!

So in autumn 2020 we will also be the
Continue data protection autumn conference.

that has proven itself -

So I'm staying for the year 2020-
at!
Go on!
1.4 Bodycam - Control visits at

police stations

The Police Act has been in place for a good three years
of the country a legal basis for the
Use of bodycams in patrol duty
the police. After the procurement
suitable devices for some time
has moved, these are now in the
Area largely arrived and in
Mission. Reason enough to practice the
take a closer look at the application.

Our experiences from visiting more
other police stations were mixed:

From the point of view of data protection, the
technical and organizational measures
took no cause for criticism. every butt
lizeirevier has its own devices, each one
Police station locally stores its own
Recordings without third parties, including others
organizational units of the police headquarters
Umm, be able to access it. The roles
are clearly assigned, the processes
structured and transparent. This overall
extremely positive picture was unfortunately tarnished,
as we randomly selected film
show recordings.

To do this, you have to preface that
Police Act sets out clear rules as to when
this technique can be used. It

17

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. A distinction must be made between focal points: come the police
civil servants within the framework of their
patrol service in potentially dangerous
che situations, the first stage of the
Bodycam, the so-called pre-recording,
be set in motion. Vi-
deo sequences with a length of 60
customers in a loop.
That is, the camera draws continuously
always only a total of one minute of
happening on. Visually, this functional
art visible on the camera, always being
it is also pointed out verbally
that a recording is made. Has the-
this low-threshold measure
wanted de-escalating effect, must
the camera can be switched off again
and the recording will start automatically
deletes.

If the desired success does not occur, it can
the permanent one by pressing the button again
Recording and storage of the
hens to be activated. In addition to the last
60 seconds is then saved for
until the camera is switched off again
will be This type of function is also op-
table made visible. However, the
legal hurdle for such permanent
Recordings high: it must be the facts
justify the assumption that the spoke
protection of police officers or
third parties against danger to life and limb
be required. Consequently, recording
men about administrative offenses or
Insults are strictly prohibited.
Recordings are also not permitted
Places that are not open to the public.

During visits by a total of three police
Fourth, a series of bodycam recordings
took a look at. Far
mostly it was situational
tion, which may be physical
attacks had preceded it. for the time-
point and in the course of the recordings

however, these have been completed in any case
and nothing indicated that by
the persons concerned specifically further
Attacks would go out or go out
could. The following examples:

In one case it was a blood draw
me: the person concerned was sitting on one
Chair and discussed with the doctor and
the officials. The blood was taken
te without resistance. In two cases
the only administrative offences
documented: once it was about "wild
pinkler”, on the other hand a verbose one
confrontation with a car
rer, who apparently didn't wear the seat belt
had created, but none of them
aggressiveness went out. In another
case a dismissal was documented,
whereby it was filmed how an official in
appropriate distance to the person concerned
son this about several minutes walk
followed. Often were the cases in which
the person concerned already on the
back-tied hands motion-
lying incapacitated on the floor; in one case
officers knelt on the backs of the
met, in the other case he was lying on his back
on the floor of a police vehicle. In
in another case the person sat with
seat belt on the back
seat of an emergency vehicle, had the co-
ne relaxed over each other and
expressed himself (correspondingly) to the effect that
to endure everything else.

In almost none of us in sight
recordings taken we saw those
legal requirements for the
dycam use, as specified in Section 21 Paragraph 6
of the Police Act (PolG) are regulated,
as fulfilled. From this it can be concluded that
many police officers of
apparently not known or at least not
present is that bodycams don't do that
are intended, any police relevant

18

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Key points To document events, rather
the legal hurdle for the use of the
body cams is relatively high. the
Video documentation of police operations
using bodycam can not on a
criminal procedural legal basis
will. The prerequisites for this
only to be considered § 100h of
Code of Criminal Procedure
lie regularly
not before.

In addition, the following arises
Problem: Some of the recordings
men inside police vehicles or
in service buildings. The wording of the
law restricts the use of body
cams, on the other hand, on police measures
"in public places". In the
relevant instructions Bodycam
it says: "This means places that actually
are essentially accessible to everyone,
such as B. streets, paths, squares, shop
passages and public transport areas". so
police station buildings and police
emergency vehicles hardly as public
accessible places in this sense apply.
Formally, bodycams are also allowed there afterwards
are not used, although
Background for the legal regulation
actually guaranteeing the basic
legally protected inviolability
Apartment (Article 13 GG) was what was on the
actually not mentioned premises
applies.

A third point, cause for criticism
there is the practical implementation of the
cancellation policy.
bodycam recording
after they have been saved
assigned to different categories,
ever
depending on the purpose for which they
are to be processed. Especially
is it about the use in a
a criminal proceeding or a proceeding
about administrative offences. Besides there
there are still the categories “Protection of private

Third party rights”, which according to match-
not relevant in practice
plays, and "no relevance". In particular-
re regarding the latter category
the law provides that the recordings
“immediately, but no later than four
weeks” are to be deleted. practical
these recordings generally four weeks
stored for a long time, which is partly because
is justified with, one wants the
Give those affected the opportunity to
assert a right to information.
In principle, this is to be welcomed.
Nevertheless, this practice leads to a
reversal of the legislative will, the
the immediate deletion ("immediately") as
rule and the longer saving ("later
testing") as an exception,
where there is one in each individual case
justification required.

In conclusion we come to the following:

Those responsible are obliged to
the police officers
officiate not only once, but re-
gelatinous, if necessary
as part of
of operational training,
in the lawful
Training in how to use the bodycam.

Task of the local data protection officer
carried is to take bodycam recordings
to be checked moderately and to intervene
fen if it is found that legal
conditions were not observed.

The use of bodycams in police
buildings and police vehicles
not permitted under the current legal situation.

The implementation
the storage periods
in practice is to be critically reviewed
fen and by internal regulations
to limit the permissible level.

19

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus Our visits and the gained
knowledge was spoken in the Po-
lick around quickly. As a result, it happened
a meeting with the Ministry of the Interior/
State Police Headquarters. That cleared it up
Interior Ministry one that the police
Practice of camera use, at least in
the cases examined by us, even after
local opinion not the legal
have met the requirements. It was
de a work-up promised,
the result of which we get after a short time
enough. In it, the state police informed us
zeipräsidium with that one extensive
Control measures to ensure
of a legally compliant camera
have caused sentences. That's how you have them
heads of local police headquarters
package of measures obliges the
includes: Clarified again
was that the Code of Criminal Procedure was not
quasi through the back door as a legal basis
position for a sole evidence-preserving deposit
set of bodycams can be used
can; this was already in the corresponding
the service instruction so specified
but probably not always in practice
so understood. Furthermore, the
prompt deletion of recordings in the
Cases where this is not for further
criminal procedural purposes or for purposes
the prosecution of regulatory offences
are needed arranged. With that
te the routine use of the four
week maximum storage period hopefully
belong to the past. In addition to
ner improved documentation and
Control obligation was determined that the
Use of bodycams in office buildings
and company vehicles are not permitted.

Overall, the reaction of the police
guide to our exam results
therefore constructive and goal-oriented. Anew
has been shown that trusting relationships
cooperation between the police

den-Württemberg and my office
tangible results on a regular basis
Sense of a legally compliant handling
with personal data of citizens
and citizens.

1.5 Data Breaches in Medical Offices

A variety of also 2019 at my
data breach report sent to the department
ments concerned medical practices from Baden-Würt-
temberg. An internal evaluation of such
Reports revealed that in a top 7 list
of the most common causes of reported pan-
the wrong postal service ran to number 1
greed, the e-mail misdelivery in 3rd place,
sending an email with an open
address list in 5th place and the fax
misdelivery in 7th place. The fact that
due to incorrect dispatch of doctor's letters, prescription
or X-ray images, often also particularly
the sensitive and worthy of protection health
patient data into the wrong ones
Hands advised gave special occasion to
thorough study of this topic.
Data breaches in which medical practices
from cyber attacks (2nd place)
the top 7 list), are the subject of the
trags "technical-organizational data
protection" under number 1.9 of this activity
performance report.

In force since May 25, 2018
che General Data Protection Regulation of the EU
(DS-GVO) regulates in Article 33
sentence 1 sentence 1, under which conditions
a data breach is reported
got to:

"In the event of a breach of protection
of personal data reports the
answer promptly and as possible
within 72 hours after the
became known last, this according to
Article 55 competent supervisory authority
de, unless the violation of the

20

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priority areas of protection of personal data
not likely to pose a risk to the
Rights and freedoms of natural persons
leads."

reports not required by law,
at least from the point of view of my department
le, not connected: Better a message
too much than one too little.

So the key requirement is
for such a report a “violation
of personal data protection”.
It follows what is meant by this
from Article 4 No. 12 GDPR:

A “breach of security leading to
destruction, loss or alteration
change, whether unintentional or unlawful
moderate, or to unauthorized disclosure
from or to the unauthorized access
leads to personal data,
which is transmitted, stored or otherwise
have been processed".

The reporting obligation under Article 33 paragraph 1
Sentence 1 DS-GVO is therefore broad.
Albeit the Baden-Württemberg ones
Physicians this far-reaching
recognize and fulfill the reporting obligation,
is this gratifying. clues for one
high number of unreported cases
cases I have - unlike my official
predecessor under the application of § 42a
of the Federal Data Protection Act in the
old, valid until May 24, 2018
Version - not (cf. the 32nd activity
Report of the state representative for the
Data protection Baden-Württemberg for the
years 2014/2015, contribution no. 7.10 information
obligation to notify in the event of data protection violations,
Printed matter 15/7990 of the state parliament of Ba-
den-Württemberg of January 21, 2016, p.
129 ff., on the website of my service
position available). On the contrary, they are
non-reportable cases to my office
been reported, for example,
that a patient owns a part
Documents in the waiting room of the practice
left behind.
Serious problems are with such

If a data breach - regrettably -
wise – has occurred and reported
I'm particularly concerned there-
rum that comparable things in the future
the will. According to Article 33 paragraph 3 book
stabe d DS-GVO, the notification must be sent
my office "a description of the of the
taken or proposed
proposed remedial measures
violation of the protection of personal
data and, if necessary, measurements
took to mitigate their possible
adverse effects”. There-
can be found in the one from my office
offered – and for use here as well
expressly recommended – form for
Online reports of such breakdowns, e.g.
the question "What countermeasures
have you already initiated which further
countermeasures are planned?”
a generous free text
field. In the event of a fax error,
sands can be entered, for example,
that the recommendations for sending faxes in
my FAQ list on data protection in the
Doctor's office in practice (again) known
made as well as with the fax dispatch
employees involved
trained and instructed accordingly
be sen. In other cases it can
be useful as a countermeasure
to introduce same encryptions and
communicate this in the notification. mistakes,
due to lack of care
are, for example, through establishments
well-structured and controlled
bare routines, clear instructions and
the introduction of the four-eyes principle for
particularly sensitive processes are encountered
the. With all measures taken to
I expect the elimination of sources of error

21

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities also that they are regularly
stood as well as event-related
their effectiveness checked and if necessary
be adjusted.

In addition, in the event of data breaches in medical
xen of particular importance to me,
whether the person affected (in many
cases the patient) is to be notified
and was notified. Article 34
Clause 1 DS-GVO requires:

"Did the violation of the protection of
ment-related data expected
high risk for personal rights
and freedoms of natural persons
consequence, the responsible
che the data subject immediately
of injury."

Such a high risk is according to my
assessment given in principle,
if health data

(in the sense of the definition of
Article 4 No. 15 GDPR:
“Personal data relating to the
physical or mental health
a natural person, including the
provision of health services
gene, obtain and from which information
about their state of health
Action")

Objects of a reportable data breach
no are. Many data breach reports that
such as the incorrect dispatch of a doctor's letter
had subject contained to mine
Surprise the statement, one looks at
the doctor's office no notification
obligation according to Article 34 paragraph 1 DS-GVO,
because the risk is considered low or non-existent
which will be considered. Such succinct
and legally unfounded statements
I have met regularly. N / A-
Of course I am aware of the fact

22

that it is from the mentioned principle of
obligation to notify exceptions
can. For example, if a
unauthorized recipient of misdirected
health data, for example due to encryption
selung and other restrictions that
Don't even take notice of plain data
could. If a medical practice stops
points for having such an
case of acceptance, she can do so in her
Data breach report under representation
of the exceptional
chen facts and their considerations
like to do.

In the case of data breaches in medical practices, it works
typically health data. So-
far about (also) genetic data or
other special categories personal
related data within the meaning of Article 9 GDPR
are affected, this applies here to health
what is said accordingly. which
other categories to consider here
are based on Article 9 paragraph 1
GDPR:

"The processing of personal data
th that make up the racial and ethnic
Origin, political opinions, religious
se or ideological beliefs
or union membership
proceed, as well as the processing of
genetic data, biometric data for
clear identification of a natural
person, health data or data
ten to sex life or the sexual
Orientation of a natural person is
prohibited."

These statements about the notification
obligation under Article 34 paragraph 1 DS-
GMOs apply with regard to health data
analogously also for other actors of the
healthcare, such as
hospitals and care facilities.

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main points Who deepens with the data protection
legal requirements for data breaches
NEN wants to deal with, for example, the
“Guidelines for Reporting Violations
protection of personal data
according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679"
the
ARTICLE 29 PRIVACY POLICY
(a [former] European consultant
body for the protection of
related data and privacy)
study the internet of my
office are available.

1.6 E-mail advertising according to UWG -

an exception in
narrow legal limits

E-mail advertising is basically only with
prior, informed consent
Affected allowed, except that all
Requirements of § 7 paragraph 3 of the
against unfair competition
(UWG) are met. This standard therefore provides
as an exception a legal one
Permission for e-mail advertising without
consent of the person concerned.
advice and complaints practice in my
authority shows, however, that it is the advertising
the company with compliance with
Requirements of § 7 paragraph 3 UWG
often don't take it so precisely - and that's why
against competition law and consequently also
violate data protection law.

E-mail advertising according to § 7 paragraph 3 UWG
only permissible if cumulatively all
requirements of this standard are met:

1. An entrepreneur must, together
hang with the sale of a commodity or
service from the customer of
have received an electronic postal address
(§ 7 Paragraph 3 No. 1 UWG).

2. The entrepreneur uses the address
se for direct advertising for your own similar

che goods or services (§ 7
Paragraph 3 No. 2 UWG).

3. The customer has the right to use
aim not contradicted (§ 7
Paragraph 3 No. 3 UWG).

4. When the ad-
resse and clear with every use
and it is clearly stated that
that he consents to its use at any time
can speak without this
other than the transmission costs
arise according to the basic tariffs (§ 7
Paragraph 3 No. 4 UWG).

To 1.: Existing customer relationship
(existing customer)

There must first be a contract between the
responsible for advertising and the
recruited customers have been closed
be. As part of this contract
the entrepreneur must provide the e-mail address
have received from the customer. Also one
free membership in one
partnership exchange leads to a
contractual relationship for a service
(OLG Munich, judgment of February 15
2018, Az. 29 U 2799/17). behaves the same way
during a trial or sniff
per subscriptions.

The customer's desire to
estimate or get a quote
Wanting is not enough here. Kick the
Customer effectively withdraws from the contract,
falls from this point in time on this legal
basis, also with a successful one
rescission of the contract. § 7 paragraph 3
UWG also does not apply (anymore) if a
Consumer contract (§§ 312g, 355 BGB)
has been effectively revoked.

23

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus on 2.: Self-promotion for similar
goods or services

table".

The person responsible is allowed to send e-mail advertising
for own - i.e. not advertising for third parties
te or for products or services
Third parties - similar goods or services
do-gen perform. The email advertisement
must therefore be closely related
with the purchased product or the received
ten services – in practice
the hardest point.

Section 7 (3) UWG is therefore regularly not
ne legal basis for sending
of a general company news
letters with offers about the whole
Assortment or range of services of the company
company. The "similarity" is rather
within the meaning of this exception provision
to protect customers from unsolicited
ner advertising to protect.

But what is meant by the term "similar"
to understand? To this end, the Thuringia
ger Higher Regional Court (judgment of 21 April
ril 2010, Az. 2 U 88/10): “The
resemblance must refer to the
purchased goods relate and the same
typical use or need
correspond to the customer; possibly it is still
permitted, accessories or supplementary goods
to apply."

An interchangeability, as stated by the Chamber
requested by the Berlin court (decision of
March 18, 2011, Az. 5 W 59/11), so to speak
the highest level of similarity, is legal
of course true, promotionally
but (for both sides) rather less
ressant: It hardly makes sense just for that
to be allowed to advertise a specific product, that
the customer has just bought (and
therefore usually not necessarily a 2.
times required). Hence the law speaks
also of "similar" and not of "identical"

24

Taking into account the above legal
language and relevant literature
opinions and for the purpose of
development of a manageable design
is from the point of view of the state representative
a resemblance of

• advertised goods regularly then

give if

◊ these of the typical application and
Possibility of using the purchased
Goods corresponds or

◊ it is a classic accessory or
Spare parts for the purchased goods
acts or

◊ it is in a narrow application
connection to a traffic
supplementary goods to the purchased
th goods.

• advertised service regularly

then given if

◊ this the typical performance goal of
service provided
or

◊ These are classic accessories too
the service provided
delt or

◊ these are customary additional
or supplementary services
the service provided
del.

Of course, the con-
concrete individual case. The more often a customer
Company different goods and
services, the more comprehensive
Of course, the advertising opportunities are richer
ability.

Examples of goods and services
you can find it in the attachement.

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus on customer evaluation or customer satisfaction
e-mail inquiries, which are always sent as
Advertising are to be classified – and also
then when these requests immediately
after a product purchase and together
be sent with the invoice
(Federal Court of Justice, judgment of July 10
2018, Ref.: VI ZR 225/17) - do not fall
under § 7 paragraph 3 UWG (because of a complete
lig other purpose) and are therefore without
prior consent always data protection
repugnant (but unfortunately widespread).

To 3.: No existing advertising
statement of the customer

The customer may not accept the e-mail advertising beforehand
not according to Art. 21 Paragraph 2 DS-GVO
the-have-spoken. The customer must
special have the opportunity of this
promotional use of his e-mail address
already at the time of collecting his
E-mail address, i.e. during the
ordering process in the online shop, to object
speak. This is required by Article 13 paragraph 2
the Privacy Policy for Electronic
Communication. You can find out more about this
in the activity report 2014/2015, p. 156 f.

Regarding 4.: Reference to objection at any time
option to claim at normal rates
(opt-out option)

Each promotional e-mail must contain the easily
findable and legible information
ten that and how advertising at any time
be objected to at normal rates
can. At this point, the
offered an unsubscribe link.

It depends on the similarity: § 7
Clause 3 UWG is not a license for general
ne product and service advertising.
For every single customer
must depend on previous purchasing behavior
(shopping cart) checked and clarified

be, for which similar goods and
Services may be advertised.

1.7 The right to information

Article 15 paragraph 1 letter c
DS-GVO: Full transparency for
those affected too
data transfers

The right to information according to Art. 15 DS-GVO
belongs to the central rights of
met. Only if I know which da-
the person responsible saved about me
chert, for what purposes he uses them
processed and where it transfers the data
mediates, I can exercise my rights under
tel III of the GDPR effective and fully
assert initially. Yet there is
companies that have
fenen claim to be able to choose whether
in the case of data transmissions, the specific
Recipients of this data transmit or
recipient categories only.

Especially when the person in charge
transfer personal data to third parties
communicates (e.g. in the course of address trading
rented or sold), the business grows
drive with the person concerned, no longer Mr./
Being a woman about your dates increases that
Risk of no longer knowing who everything is in
owns his data. The person concerned wants
therefore know exactly where which data goes
were given.

With regard to data transfers re-
Article 15 paragraph 1 letter c GDPR applies:

(1) The data subject has the right
a confirmation from the person responsible
to request information as to whether they
process personal data
be killed if so, she has a
Right to information about this personal
related data and the following information

25

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main points:
(...)
c) the recipients or categories of
Recipients to whom the personal
personal data has been disclosed
are or will be disclosed, in particular
especially for recipients in third countries
or at international organizations;

Complainants have often complained that
that requested companies in their
in the case of data transmissions only
abstractly the categories of recipients
name the data, but not specifically
the companies would list, too
not upon further inquiry. You mis-
always rely on their statutory right to choose,
either the specific recipient or
just name one recipient category
to be allowed. Partly, such as an address
dealers, the recipients would too
not documented.

The State Commissioner rejects this view
carried off decisively, she is with the DS
GMO not to be agreed. The name alone
Identification of categories of recipients (e.g.
Car dealerships, credit agencies, online
line dealer) hardly helps the affected person
further and has also with the greatest possible
nothing to do with transparency.
If this is a question of voting rights at all
would go, this would stand as well
only to the concerned as it is in this
section of the GDPR for their rights
goes.
It is crucial, however, that it is from the
Principle of transparency out as well
not because of the wording of the regulation
is at the discretion of the person responsible,
how specifically he answers the information.

Insofar as data has already been transmitted to third parties
have been made, these must be specifically
to be called. Are transmissions
seen, it suffices the categories of these

to list third parties, insofar as these
are cash; but this would have to be
from the data protection information according to Art.
13, 14 GDPR.

The right to information according to Art. 15 DS-GVO
is, so to speak, the "royal right" of the
met. Here applies to those responsible
greatest accuracy when providing information
and completeness. This applies in particular
which also includes the concrete and
exact designation of the recipients of data
ten (Article 15 paragraph 1 letter c DS-GVO).
As soon as data transmissions have taken place
have the, the concrete places are closed
name to which data was transmitted.
In the case of planned transmissions, information
about the recipient categories.
A maximum of transparency – as well
in Art. 5 paragraph 1 letter a, Art. 12 DS-
GMO stipulated – is here for the ver-
responsible thus the need of the hour
– and can be massive at his injury
result in fines.

1.8 Art. 15 GDPR im

employee context

Through the DS-GVO, the data subjects
extensively expanded rights. Special
The law is important here
information and the right to a copy
Art. 15 DS-GVO, especially in employment
context, too. The right to information
is a fundamental “hinge”
for the further assertion of the remaining
gene rights of data subjects. Only the one who
knows the processing that affects him,
can in a second step
assign his right to erasure (Art. 17
DS-GVO) or correction (Art. 16 DS-
GMO) effectively implement. At the same time
any requests for information from employees
many employers, especially long ones
length of service, above all
challenges.

26

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities 1.

right to information

Art. 15 GDPR contains three independent ones
Claims that flank each other.
According to Art. 15 Paragraph 1 DS-GVO there is
next the right of the person concerned, from the
responsible body to find out whether they
relevant personal data
be worked.
Furthermore, the person concerned can
future with regard to legal
correct information, such as purpose
processing, categories of processing
personal data, recipients
ger or categories of recipients of
data or origin of the data
(cf. Art. 15 paragraph 1 lit. a to h GDPR).

In addition, according to Article 15 paragraph 3
DS-GVO the right to "copy of personal
personal data that is the subject of the
processing are".

a)

Data in the context of employees

In the employment relationship there are
Numerous data processing, which of
(internal) notes, assessments up to
enough for correspondence. to note
is that the employees
in addition to Art. 15 DS-GVO also labor law
the right to inspect their personal
file according to § 83 BetrVG, which
however, is not as far-reaching as
Art. 15 GDPR - GVO. The right to information
is therefore responsible for checking the legal
of data processing, also in the
work context, essential.

b)

right to copy

From the regulatory
technical control procedures and advisory
questions, it has become clear that
especially that in Art. 15 Paragraph 3 DS-GVO
standardized "right to copy" special

meaning and this from work
pursued with particular vigour
becomes. It should be emphasized that on the part
of the LAG Baden-Württemberg too
decision that received a lot of media attention (LAG
Baden-Württemberg, Urt. 12/20/2018 -
17 Sa 11/18) in favor of a comprehensive
sufficient interpretation of the concept of
pie" was hit. So he has
Employer the stored personal
related performance and behavior
ten available to the employee
place. First of all, the concept of
"Performance and behavioral data" in the
employment relationship very open and
hardly any limitations, on the other hand
played the decision in front of
due to internal investigations
lungs, so that even
long and anonymity of whistleblowers
were affected. The revision is currently in progress
at the BAG under file number 5 AZR
66/19. It remains to be seen whether the BAG
the protection of the whistleblower because of Art.
15 paragraph 4 DS-GVO takes precedence over the
right to information is granted or
follows the opinion of the LAG.

c)
 

scope and limits of
Right to copy

In practice, on the other hand, primarily general
vague requests for information, in particular
particular small and medium-sized
take on great challenges.
Especially in the employee context
after many years of operation
extensive personal
gene data on a wide variety of
gears accumulated. These records
but are subject to a legality con-
don't troll in the first place, only with that
Reference to the large scope of the
standing databases are withdrawn
the. Systematically flanked and supplemented
Art. 15 paragraph 3 paragraph 1 and nor-

27

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities in paragraph 4 expressly states the
stop the interference of “rights and
freedoms of other people”. if you put it
the above-mentioned goal of legal
Eligibility control of data processing
and this system at the bottom, so will
one in principle of a comprehensive
the right to information and the right to a copy
can go out, which only after a
Weighing the conflicting "law
rights and freedoms of other persons",
possibly through blackening, his
finds limits. Responsible bodies
and addressees of requests for information
must therefore, before the disclosure
and making available the copy
s and weigh up whether rights to
of those people, so if necessary also
the rights of other workers
outweigh the disclosure or you
(temporarily) oppose. Also the
Reasons for consideration of the DS-GVO represent a
Interpretation aid to the side. So should
in accordance with sentence 5 of recital 63
DS-GVO the right to information no "Ge-
trade secrets or intellectual property rights
property and in particular the original
copyright to software”.
Again, responsible bodies
before providing information, consider whether your
own trade secrets of
information outweigh. This pre-
however, must be traceable
be documented and must not
result in any information being
scarf is denied.

The right to information and a copy
according to Art. 15 DS-GVO is a basic requirement
for the assertion of further
ren rights of data subjects. The LfDI BW as well
other supervisory authorities and consumers
organizations have for those affected
therefore developed patterns for orientation,
which are available on the websites
are (e.g. at www.baden-wuert-

temberg.datenschutz.de). some
requests for a future place in particular many
le small and medium-sized companies
enormous challenges. The LfDI will
therefore also in the future, both for companies
men in the case of advice, as well as those affected
persons in the event of a complaint, the respective
accompany requests for information.

1.9 Technical and organizational

privacy

Our technical department has in 2019
a total of more than 25 on-site control visits
che and countless written control
procedure carried out. Some of the largest
ten data breaches in Baden-Württemberg,
which is also reported in the media
was - such as the hacks of the State
aters Stuttgart and the State Fair
Stuttgart - were and will be through that
Technical report revised. through the
large number of data breaches we could
gain interesting insights and
identify specific attack patterns
which will be reported below.

Current Threats

Spear phishing and malware

Malware that spreads via email
is unfortunately still a big pro-
problem in practice. Meanwhile there are mails
done so "well" with pests
that it is very difficult for recipients
to realize that this is one
attack. The emails are always
targeted, with correct salutation
see and supposedly come from it
from senders with whom the victims in the
actually been in contact with the past
the. In this connection one speaks
also related to "spear phishing". One of
best-known representatives of malware, the
uses this type of attack, the extremely

28

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus dangerous "Emotet", mostly in combination
with other malware such as "Trickbot"
and "Ryuk".

On a machine infected with Emotet
not only the address books of the
affected e-mail clients, but also the
E-mail content read out and on a
Server copied by the attackers. With this
these further targeted attacks
lead that with the real email content
appear deceptively real. after one
Emotet incident it is therefore imperative that
all e-mails for sensitive personal
personal data, such as health
data, bank details, application data, etc.
be searched and these contacts
a corresponding notification
a data leak (according to Art. 34 GDPR)
approaches The notification should
if not simply done by e-mail. to
often such emails are classified as spam emails
classified and do not reach either
their recipients or just won't
observed. An email notification
does not represent a suitable form of
notification. Affected persons should
via an alternative communication
way to be contacted: telephone, letter,
etc. Regardless, at one
Emotet infestation always displays an ad at the
Central contact point for cybercrime
be reimbursed by the police.

For malware distributed via email
Word and Excel docu-
ment with macros. as
first security measure should be a
Raising awareness among employees
be led. E-mail servers should also
be configured to potentially
harmful (e.g. macro-compatible .docm,
.xslxm etc.) and obsolete (e.g. .doc, .xls
etc.) Document formats directly from the
refuse delivery. As a further remedy
femeasures comes into consideration, both

E-mail clients as well as Office programs
in containers or virtual machines
operate. In general, it is therefore advisable
that e-mail clients do not
ten management systems
for sensitive
personal data are used
the. I.e. emails, and especially emails
with sensitive personal data
ten, should after the entrance from the
e-mail client in a suitable filing
be pushed. A suitable repository is
e.g. an encrypting document
ten management system or at least
an encrypted file storage. Also with
a continuous end-to-end communication
coding can reduce the risk
that sensitive data after a
successful attack, e.g. B. with Emotet, too
a data breach involving personal
data become.

Attention: Become regular (sensitive)
personal data between companies
companies, medical practices/clinics or
hear, etc. exchanged, so corresponds
E-mail without end-to-end closures-
not state of the art anyway.

The malware surrounding Emotet is
also so dangerous because this mal-
ware has additional functionalities.
This is how closures often occur
development of the affected system and
pressure by the perpetrators: either pays
the person responsible for the ransom, or
he no longer has access to his
no data. In this connection one speaks
menhang also from “ransomware attack”.
It is not uncommon for those responsible to
neither no backup of their data at all
created or the backup was made at the
Attack also completely encrypted
rare So there may be a loss
the availability of personal data
and those responsible make a decision
sometimes also to pay the ransom

29

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main points (so were with a similar campaign
using the malware "Gandcrab" in one
2 billion dollars stolen annually). Also "small
ne" companies can
according to the failure of theirs, sometimes lasting several weeks
IT network and the resulting wage
costs, lost orders, penalties
lungs due to missed appointments,
loss of reputation, fines, ransom
demands of the hackers, costs for special
specialized IT companies etc. from a minimum
at least five to six figure damage
go out. The careless handling
with e-mails can therefore quickly exist
become trend-threatening.

Attackers try in an infestation in
usually access to central systems
how to obtain domain controller and the
Malware subsequently on all
spread in closed systems.
Therefore, these must be special and with
other access data can be secured
the. The same applies to backup servers:
Try grab before encrypting
the data first all backups unusable
to make cash. Therefore, backup servers should
ver not to central authentication
services such as Active Directory hanging and
use a different operating system. cli
ents shouldn't have a way of doing that
Destroy or overwrite backups
ben. Increase regular offline backups
the security.

Recommendations:

• Users should be made aware
(it should refer to the current dangers in
reference to spear phishing
will). In the best case, the Nut-
then do not destroy any malicious attachments
more. If an attack is successful
takes place, but users should not
Fear of consequences and her
should report the incident immediately.

30

It is important that there is a functional
reporting chain there and infested
Systems immediately disconnected from the network
and (in the case of Emotet) afterwards
completely new
to be installed.

• If e-mails with sensitive data are
ben, then these should promptly
be deleted from the mailbox,
so that there are no data protection pro-
comes.
trouble

by malware

• Backups must be separated from the rest of
be separated and backup ser-
ver use their own authentications.
Backups should also be available offline
so that in the event of a
case not be encrypted with . It
should measures be taken
to prevent malware from building up in the internal
network can expand further. From-
macros should be
moderately deactivated.

The BSI has very good recommendations too
provided to this topic.

Inadequate protection of the long-distance
maintenance access

Surprisingly often in 2019 data breaches
NEN reported that about not or not
adequately secured remote maintenance
additions were made. surprising therefore,
as these remote maintenance accesses are permanent
were active and some of the
gangs passwords saved with or
protect access from brute force attacks
were protected. You can do it easier
ultimately not make it possible for an attacker.
Compliance with the base requirements
from the module OPS.2.4 remote maintenance
of the BSI
IT baseline protection compendium
2019 would have prevented such attacks.
Among other things, the following is required: “The

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus of the

initiation
remote maintenance access
MUST be done from within the institution
gen. The user of the remote administration
ten IT system MUST allow remote access
explicitly agree.” and “[It] MUST
all communication links
completed remote access
(Deactivation).". The state of the art
requires that those responsible for the fulfillment
fulfillment of the obligations according to Art. 32 of the GDPR
not for comfort reasons the risk of one
permanently active (and open) remote
ment access. But not only
Those responsible must take this into account
also processors who, for convenience
set up their customers such a
suggest easy access commit here
a breach of Article 28(3).
Letter f and Article 32 of the GDPR.

Insufficient notification of
responsible by service providers

If a processor reports a violation
tion of the protection of personal data
data, he reports this immediately
the person responsible. This requirement
from Article 33 paragraph 2 of the GDPR
te probably known to all processors
be. Less well known is how this Mel-
appropriate for the purpose
can be led. The responsible
should be able to
relevant measures according to Article 33 f. DS-
seize GMOs and take appropriate countermeasures
to be able to carry out measures. Can
a message about the otherwise for
e-mail distribution list used
measure? No! Should one at all
Use email for notification
become? At least not alone. A
additional call, fax or registered mail
ensures that the message
responsible also really achieved and
ensures that the processor
appropriate notification of

responsible can also document.
It should be in the data processing agreement
be regulated, who and how at a
data breach should be notified.

Hacking of online accounts
by celebrities and politicians

At the beginning of January 2019 it was announced that
several online accounts of German politicians
and celebrity hacked and thereby im
December 2018 lost a lot of private data
were made public ("doxing"). In a
Survey list were 994 politicians and
Celebrities were mentioned overall
but the contact details of much more
people affected. "Hacked" only
a mid double digit number on Social
Media profiles of those affected. Since many
but their address books to the
provider of the social media platforms
loaded, the attacker had access
to the contact details of around 40,000 people
sons. In addition, the attacker has numerous
che private and intimate messages or
Conversations Affected on the
Platforms have led, as well as various
Documents from cloud storage service
published. Among them were
in addition to private letters, bills and
Photos partly also illustrations of
reference documents.

These documents were primarily
various platforms on the Internet
public, relating to the spread of
specialized in illegal content
ben. We were able to partially delete it
of this data also in non-European countries
reach abroad. standing in the room
the high fines were there – too
overseas – often a good argument
for the hosting providers, the platform
get drivers to delete; Further
procedures are still ongoing. Some cases have
out of responsibility to other European

31

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities submitted to the supervisory authorities, al-
however, so far with no showcase
cash result.

The case shows several pro-
blem areas on: That's how sharing is
of address books for social media platforms
forms to be viewed very critically. This
Platforms usually use the data
also for own purposes, for example
for profiling. Is the use of the
platform not exclusively for personal
chen or family activities, is the
Transmission of the address books clearly
within the scope of the GDPR and
requires a legal basis. There comes
usually only the previous, voluntary, active,
separately declared, informed and revocable
consent of those affected - i.e. all
ler contacts in the address book – under consideration.
And usually nobody has them.

Hacker attacks are often carried out
weak or reused passport
words relieved. Our notes on
have secure handling of passwords
we already found in the activity report 2018
thinks. A two-factor authentication
can significantly increase protection. To-
everyone should think about which ones
documents he saves on which platform
chert

Oldies but goldies?

In addition to the "new" samples mentioned above
we also met lemen in the year of the check
back to "old acquaintances", i.e. weak
put those already in previous years respectively
were an issue. Some examples:

Destruction of files/data carriers

Even in times when even discount stores
Office shredder with particle cut (P-
4) offer, there are data breaches

with insufficiently destroyed files and
data carriers. DIN 66399 has been in force since January 1.
October 2012 (see 31.TB) and
still have some responsible
Provide the disposal concepts and
status contracts apparently not adjusted,
which may lead to corresponding fines
drive leads (see also section
"News from the fine office"). loading
special finds were several
Hard drives from the flea market that are neither
were still deleted and send
sible data contained, as well as insufficient
shredded bank records.

After encryption of storage
media to the basic protective
measures heard and the consequences of a
Loss of data in the form of a possible
general data abuse mitigates, should
ideally always be encrypted.
This is necessary if only because
depending on the design or malfunction
no longer residue-free or not
can be recoverably deleted
and thus only the physical destruction
tion as a last resort.

processor)

According to Article 32 paragraph 1 data protection
basic regulation (DS-GVO) has
responsible body (and the possibly
existing
under
Consideration of the state of the art
appropriate technical and organizational
Measures to protect personal
to meet drawn data. As a measure
For example, the encryption is personal
called related data. The encryption
processing of personal data has for
the responsible body and/or the
processors have further advantages
le: If a reportable "data
panne” is present, those affected must also
immediately in clear and simple language
be notified if a high
hes risk to personal rights and

32

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities freedoms arises. A notification
of the person concerned is, however, pursuant to Article
34 paragraph 3 letter a DS-GVO in case of
loss of a data medium on which the data
state-of-the-art
ciphers were usually expendable.

locking technology

During on-site inspections, we
mer again on second key and in
cabinets, IT racks (without special
ßung), in storage rooms (sometimes still with
fire load such as paper/cleaning agents), missing
protective fittings and non-locking
ne doors that just pulled shut
became. The case of an IT robber was curious
mes, whose electric door opener specially
via a code lock for access control
trolley was actuated, its lock latch
(coll. snapper) but also with a larger
can be opened with a paper clip
could.

Keys that are not handed out personally
and thus under sole
are under the control of the recipient
stored so that no unauthorized persons
can have access to it. In doing so,
sen storage type and location dem
correspond to the protection requirements of the key.
In general, missing or insufficient
Key management procedures
add to. The logging of the key
self-pickup and return is recommended
len.

multifunction devices

For multifunction devices, the
Storage of the data locally or on
Network drives as well as those via browser
accessible interfaces checked. Part-
way, files on shared
simply printed out on a network drive
be used, although these are not provided for

were. The found storage
of print jobs over a longer period of time,
was not proven over the years
compels. The web interfaces of printers
and multifunction devices were mostly
from the standard workstation computer via
Browser responsive.
Unnecessary exposure of the devices should
always be avoided. precondition
for the data protection-compliant operation of the
devices is that the security settings
gene is also activated and sensibly configured
will. That means passwords too
to set or change standard passwords
are and the web interface via
Filter rules, e.g. for the network coupling elements
ment only for dedicated administrative
computers are accessible. If device
possible on the other side, is the transport
activation. Besides, that should
Device undergoes regular safety checks
and updates can be integrated.
Documentation of the
chose configuration, so that for example
wise easily checked after an update
can be checked whether all desired security
security options are really still activated
are.

Fines for technical violations

Particularly noteworthy is from viewpoint
of the technical department the fact that
the first GDPR fine in Germany
(still in 2018) due to insufficient
corresponding data security was imposed
("Knuddels" case). Missing data backup
heit is also the reason for in 2019
a large part of the
le imposed fines. This should be as
Signal seen for those responsible
be that data security through the
DS-GVO has gained enormous importance
has and can no longer be neglected
may!

33

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main areas of focus Overall, this year we also
determined that in particular service
ter – to the smaller sub-
take, clubs and e.g. medical practices
are dependent – far too often neglect
sig in terms of data security
ren. Through a series of data breaches
Service providers experienced large outflows
personal data of data subjects
and in some cases also to damage
gen with those responsible, which the
used service providers. View
of the technical department, there are
rich very large need for improvement.

advisory

In addition to the control activity and the processing
processing of data breaches was the technical
nik department also in the consultation and the
Development of orientation aids active.

Creation of a data protection
assessment (DPFA) for the e-file BW
 
The obligation to electronic
according to current legislation
Version effective January 1, 2022: From
then according to § 6 paragraph 1 EGovG
BW the authorities of the country their files
to be managed electronically. With the e-file BW
goes electronic data processing
accompanied by a large number of personal
drawn data includes and insofar for
is an important topic for the LfDI.
Last but not least, the LfDI also has to go to one
switch to electronic filing. loading
very early on, the LfDI was
position "Project Uniform E-File"
of the Ministry of the Interior in the examination
nes security and data protection
integrated. This exam was
now largely completed.
There are still open points
(e.g. logging vs. employee monitoring
but these are subject to an introductory

e-File BW initially not in return
gene.
In addition, the LfDI will
data protection impact assessment (DPFA)
for
the e-file BW created. This DPIA is intended as a
Templates used by all authorities
be able. It does not follow from this that all
can use the same DPIA. There-
for are the procedures and type of personal
son-related data in the individual
authorities too different. But the one from
LfDI created DPIA will probably mostly
as a template for the authority-specific
procedures are suitable. As soon as the DPIA is finished
is provided, this should also be made public
be available and can be used as a pattern for private
Companies serve (similar to the BayLDA
Sample at https://www.lda.bayern.de/
de/thema_dsfa.html). The DPIA orientated
conform to the ISO/IEC standards of the 27000
and 29100 series (ISO/IEC 27001, 27002,
27005, 29100, 29134, 29151 and 31000).

When creating the DPIA and the
with associated exchange with the
individual project groups has become exemplary
shown that a DPIA is a very useful
les procedure for identifying risks
and their treatment is. One must have his
Knowing values to make them appropriate
to be able to protect. A suitable one is here
Quoting Bundy McGeorge (U.S. National
Security Advisor): "When we check our dental
brush and diamond with equal zeal
protect, we lose less toothbrush
ten and more diamonds.” (Originally:
“If we guard our toothbrushes and dia-
moons with equal zeal, we will lose fewer
toothbrushes and more diamonds."). con
Specifically, this means that with the creation of the
DPIA for the E-Akte BW risks identified
however, problems were also
implementation of individual remedial measures
took. And only if a DPIA before the
Project start is carried out, can
these findings useful in the project

34

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 1. Priorities

Practice

In practice, the
DPIAs submitted to the supervisory authority rarely
an “Assessment of Risks to Rights
and freedoms of the persons concerned".
as set out in Article 35(7)(b).
c of the GDPR is required. Also the
according to Article 35 paragraph 7 letter d of
DS-GVO required remedial measures
with those of the “rights and entitled
Interests of the data subjects and
other affected parties into account
will" find hardly any recognition in practice
tion. Most of the submitted DS-
FAs a risk assessment and remedial action
took for confidentiality, availability
and integrity, i.e. the “classic” goals
from information security. One
Assessment is therefore usually made from the point of view
of the company - a consideration from
Unfortunately, the view of those affected does not take place
instead of. However, this is precisely what the data
protection just requested.

Video surveillance and doorbells

The advertising says it all: the homeowner
enjoys his life and can
deo transfer and smartphone app off
remotely open the door for the postman
or the alleged burglar
made it clear that he was caught on video
is drawn. So what can be done here?
go wrong? Unfortunately, the security
the video transmission to the smartphone
ne often left much to be desired. Will
asked the manufacturers about the problems
chen, these remain impressive
left - after all, the manufacturers are
not those responsible within the meaning of
GDPR. The person in charge decides
about the purposes and means of processing
processing of personal data and

this is the operator of the camera
ra – and not their manufacturer. Whether the
deotransfer by uncertain (pre)
Settings or errors in the software
thereby publicly available or to servers
be transmitted in third countries is
are the responsibility of the operator.
The operator of the camera must also
be careful not to close any public spaces
capture. Are pictures from public
Rooms transmitted to the Internet and for
every retrievable, this has a fine due
result in the supervisory authority.

What can the responsible person do?
Pay attention to the safety of the product,
do your research before you buy, inform-
be careful during operating hours
possible vulnerabilities and install
you software updates. Disable
the transfer to the smartphone when
you do not necessarily need this function
gen. If you do need this function
If possible, you should contact us
connect to your home network with a VPN
the and only about it with the camera. Of the
Camera should not connect to the
be allowed on the Internet. So silly yourself
that may also read in 2019. See also TB
2018 Chapter 3.2.

Video image resolution, the DIN EN
62676-4 (or DIN EN 50132-7) and
the question of whether video surveillance
per se personal data
be recorded

With the technical data of the Vi-
this question cannot be answered
respond. The answer depends
also from the accompanying circumstances of the vi-
deodorant intake, d. H. the available
standing additional information. To-
but next to the technical data: (1)
image resolution of the camera, (2) distance of
Camera to captured person, (3) angles

35

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main points between the camera and the captured person
son and (4) lighting. For evaluation
the personal reference of video recordings
we proceed from ideal
al conditions, i. H. the person
is captured frontally by the camera and
the lighting is ideal. The above
mentioned points (1) and (2) can be considered as
Summarize "point density" and
that usually comes with video systems
the unit mm/pixel, pixel/meter or pi-
xel/16 cm (face) indicated. examples
from DIN EN 62676-4 are in the table
can be seen in the appendix (images based on
ge from https://www.gov.uk/cast-resource-
ces-for-the-crime-prevention-industry).
It can be stated that from
a point density of 16 mm/pixel, i. H.
one pixel in the image is 16 mm
of the captured object, the represented
Person only with additional information identical
can be verified.

DIN EN 62676-4 therefore defines from which
ter point density monitors people, de-
detected, observed, recognized, identified
or can be examined. As in
the table with the illustrations
is specified in DIN EN 62676-4 from a
point density of 8 mm/pixel a detection
acceptability of persons. So-
far to the technical data. With addition-
know, for example, the site manager on a
video-monitored construction site, the boss in the
office, etc. can also be used at 16 mm/pi
xel comparatively simply a person
reference can be made. If you lead this
Thoughts continue, so is also with
lower resolution, a case-by-case examination
required to determine whether a person
reference can be made. to
care must be taken that a multitude of
number of additional information, such as exterior
appearance, items carried,
unusual behavior and/or
by a combination of place, date,

Time, etc. but a personal relationship
can result. If the case-by-case
conclusion, however, that no
additional knowledge is available,
half a dot density of 16 mm/pixel
of a video surveillance without persons
be assumed.

1.10 More data protection also means

more Europe!

The European staff unit was
year especially in the area of fundamental
questions expanded and strengthened. Next to
the area of European cooperation
men work who is involved in the collaboration in the
Committees of the European Data Protection
committee and the coordination of
cross-border administrative
driving are now also the basic
sentence questions in the national area in the
Affiliated to the Europe department. For the
LfDI is the staff unit the central coordination
ing point of these questions, which the
Uniform application of law within
and secure outside the home. There-
besides she represents the LfDI at lectures
and specialist events.

European cooperation

1.
 
With the validity of the GDPR, the domestic
international cooperation in data
protection to a new level. A-
common administrative regulations
are just as important here as the efficient
efficient and coordinated processing
cross administrative procedures.

a) Participation of the LfDI in the
 
 
 

working groups of
European data protection
committee

At European level we are in the
Working Committees of the European Data

36

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities of the protection committee. the European
ische Data Protection Board (EDPB).
the independent European body
for the uniform application of the data
data protection regulations throughout
European Union contributes and the
cooperation between the EU data
protection authorities. The EDPB exists
from representatives of the national data protection
authorities and the European data
Protection Officer (EDPS). Germany
has a seat there. this one
The seat is currently occupied by the Federal Commissioner
te for data protection and information
tion freedom (BfDI) true. The choice of
Deputy, according to § 17 paragraph 1
Clause 1 BDSG head of the
supervisory authority of a country, was until
not yet successful by the Federal Council
carried out. Because this deputy that
right to vote in matters in which the countries
who alone has the right to legislate
ben, or which the facility or that
relate to procedures by state authorities,
should perceive, this choice is for the
effective representation of the interests of
countries are essential – which is why the
deceased election by the Bundesrat
serious and worthy of criticism
represents default.

In the working groups of the EDPB, the
LfDI a permanent position as country representative
in the Social Media Expert Subgroup,
carried out by the European staff unit
men will. This coordinates the position
taken by the German supervisory authorities
and brings the agreed points of view
on a European level. Next to this one
fixed coordination function
LfDI currently in several workspaces
the position as simpler or
the reporter true:

In the Social Media Expert Subgroup of the
EDSA is the LfDI together with the French

Czech Data Protection Agency (CNIL) fe-
the lead rapporteur in an
material subject area. For the creation
of guidelines in the field of
I have work in Cooperation Expert
Subgroup also the lead
reimbursement accepted.

A simple reporter creation has-
I te together with the Hamburgian
commissioner for the creation of an inter-
a paper in the Social Media Expert
subgroup inside. I also share
Schleswig-Holstein in the area of basic
sentence questions such a position in the Key
Provisions Expert Subgroup.

As chairman of the working group
deomonitoring of the data protection conference
I have, with the help of the statistic
by the Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information
"Guide line 3/2019 on processing of personal
nal data through video devices”.
and these issues at European level
addressed.

The already networked in 2018
investigations initiated by vehicles
were successfully continued this year
guided. Also in this area
I had the German and European
colleagues temporarily as rapporteur
ter supported.
Guidelines and Opinions of the European
Data Protection Committee can be found at:
https://edpb.europa.eu/edpb_de

b)
 

border crossing
administrative procedure

Are cross-border
carried out, it applies without
according to Article 60 DS-GVO the
operating principle, according to which priority is given by
cooperation, a consensus can be reached

37

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priority areas. But also informal communication
tion mechanisms may in their importance
tion for European cooperation
not to be underestimated. About the platform
form of the Internal Market Information System
tem (IMI) all cross-border
tending administrative procedures and also
handled informal requests that
Exchange of experience between the supervisory authorities
enable that. My authority was 2019
at 123 transactions conducted in this system
driving involved. We have seven of them
as the lead supervisory authority
leads. We were affected in 116 proceedings
ne supervisory authority, of these procedures
48 entered our house and
were with the European authorities
divided. We currently list approx
15 inputs coming over in the near future
the system with the European colleagues
to be shared.

2.
 
 

Coordination more uniform
Viewpoints on European
and German level

At the German level, I represent the interests
ressen of Baden-Württemberg in the committee
the independent German data protection
supervisory authorities of the federal states and the
Federal, the Data Protection Conference (DSK).
It has the task of data protection
to uphold and protect fundamental rights,
a uniform application of the European
ic and national data protection law
to reach and together for his
to enter into further development. The data-
protection conference generally meets semi-
annually in meetings lasting several days, whereby
since the GDPR came into force, several special
and interim conferences per year
be led.
You can find the results of the work of the DSK
under:
https://www.datenschutzkonfe-
renz-online.de/

The decisions of the DSK are carried out
Working groups prepared. the business
regulation of the DSK ensures that the
Country representatives, of which the supervisory
authorities of the countries in the european
Working bodies are represented, also in
the thematically identical German
working groups are present. in the
They are part of their European work
to the positions and decisions of the
DSK and the results of the working groups
bound. Is there a uniform
dot on a topic
so this according to the procedure
Section 18 paragraph 2 of the Federal Data Protection Act
(BDSG) are formed. According to § 18
sentence 2 sentence 4 BDSG is in doubt
the simple majority of votes
pale. Through this procedure
uniform positions of the Germans
supervisory authorities and therefore consistency
secured at German level.
 
3.
 

consultations and training
the EU department

After the European Office of the LfDI
numerous participants in 2018
has trained participants
the need for lectures on the new
Data protection law under the GDPR as well
not demolished in 2019. Within the
reference period, 39 schools alone
ments of the European staff unit also in this
many interested people again this year
sensitized to the topic of data protection
equipped with expertise. To-
which now also the European
jurisprudence on the subject
set apart (Fashion-ID verdict
dated July 29, 2019), was one of the
score points on training courses in social
Media area and the question of whether and how
social media in compliance with data protection
can be used. Through our active
ve Participation in the Social Media Expert

38

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities data protection officer of the aforementioned
positions and thus obtains the opportu-
heit, everyday problems in the
Implementation of the GDPR and state or
area-specific laws in public
chen sector to discuss and together
with the other participants
to develop full practical solutions.

And last but not least, of course
in our own house again and again
not only the (new) specifications
in accordance with the DS-GVO
put and meet, but also the
current developments on European
level or at the other supervisory
listen to watch in Germany and
flow into the advisory work of the LfDI
to eat. For this reason offers
the European staff unit is also ongoing internally
fend in-house training for your own
Employees in which, on the one hand
possible changes and new
new insights into fundamental issues
of data protection practice.
In this way, uniform standard
Points developed within the LfDI and
especially the new employees
familiar with important issues
power.

Subgroup of the European Data Protection
Committee (EDPB) we can valuable
Work results on the practical questions
gene around the use of Twitter and
Co. and hand them over to the responsible
verbatim in Baden-Württemberg
give. Another focus was the past
year in the non-public area at the
Training for clubs based on
their often small size and manpower
who at the organizational level in the
feld great concerns about the
Realization of the data protection law
had requirements. Through targeted
events in this area
LfDI tries to dispel these fears
gain weight. In particular, our practice
advisor “Data protection in the association according to the
GDPR" (https://www.baden-wuerttem-
berg.datenschutz.de/praxisratgeber-da-
tenschutz-in-the-association-after-the-ds-gvo/)
should, through its specific explanations
gene and clear examples practicable
Show ways how data protection in the
association can be designed.

The public area was
Office for Europe also continues
more trained. He quickly turned
get out that straight in the public domain
often indications for a lawful and
above all practicable implementation of the
data protection regulations
were missing.
Therefore, numerous events
gene specifically for authorities of our country
carried out in which the special
Regulations and needs of data
protection of public bodies
became. Is particularly valuable in this
also the cooperation between
schen the LfDI and the ministries as well
Regional councils of Baden-Württemberg
within the framework of the
set up working groups. In particular in
"Data protection working group" exchanges ideas
the LfDI regularly with the authorities

39

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main points 1.11 News from the fine office

From January 1st, 2019 to October 31st, 2019
a total of 196 new ones at the fine office
fine pending. The number
of monthly new arrivals has
in comparison to the relevant pre-
period of the year (beginning of June to the end of October
tober) increased by an average of 20%.

obtained search warrants, whose
completion is imminent. In addition
the fine office carried out several checks
len by those responsible, in two
cases led to fines.

(takes into account new entries after the effective date
of the GDPR by the key date of the respective report
went.)

The one from the Regional Council of Karlsruhe
old cases taken over could
be completed in time. To
as before, fines will not apply to everyone
Data breach imposed, but
primarily in the case of more serious violations.
Overall, the fine office imposed
between the beginning of January and the end of October
Fines in 19 notices in 2019
amounting to a total of 242,140 euros plus
Fees totaling 12,107.00
Euro. The fines were aimed at
in the case of both natural persons and
also against small and medium-sized ones
Company. fine proceedings against
large companies are still located
in the investigation stage. In a multitude
of cases, the fine office Ver-
testimonies of witnesses and victims
through, passed in several proceedings
Court orders and with the assistance of
Police seize evidence and

isolated cases

Imposed by decision of April 12, 2019
the fine office a fine in the amount of
EUR 80,000 against a medium-sized company
financial services company. The-
when disposing of sub-
gen, the personal data of two
Customers included, not the required
Diligence to maintain integrity and
Confidentiality of information in terms of
ne of Art. 5 Paragraph 1 lit. f GDPR
to let. So the papers were
previous anonymization by shredding
or blacking out accidentally in general
disposed of my waste paper, where the company
were discovered by a neighbor and
have been sent to my authority. Unfortunately
is the improper disposal of
documents, some of which contain sensitive personal
contain related data, not an isolated case.
Rather, there were several in the year under review
Penalty proceedings for violations of
the integrity and confidentiality of the data
according to Art. 5 Paragraph 1 lit. f GDPR
pending, the majority of which with a

40

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main points of fine notice have been completed.

By decision of May 9th, 2019
the fine office imposed a fine for the first time
money against a police officer. Dem was
based on the fact that the official was too private
purposes and using
ner official user ID
the license plate number of a car
dates of a chance acquaintance
asked. With these owner data made the
Officials filed a so-called SARS request with the
Federal Network Agency, thus obtained the
phone number of his casual acquaintance
and then contacted them. The-
This procedure represented a so-called excess,
which the office of the police officer
ten was not attributable. That in § 28
LDSG standardized ban on prosecution regarding
public authorities was not including
gig, because neither was the department for
responsible for the violation, nor was that
Civil servants as independent public
to look at. Rather, it was
to a violation that the official as
Private individual using official
access rights committed. His acting
was therefore to be evaluated according to the GDPR
and was fined moderately
fined in the amount of 1,400 euros. the
Decision shows that officials
public places, as well as employees
non-public bodies, for unauthorized
action in breach of data protection sanctions
can be ned.

Imposed by decision of October 24, 2019
te the fine office a fine in the amount
of 100,000 euros against a medium-sized
Indian food handicraft company
men because this is the personal
Data of his applicants negligently not in
sufficient scope against access
protected by unauthorized third parties. That
company had one on its website
Applicant portal set up, via which

Interested parties their application documents
could submit online. However, that offered
Company neither an encrypted
Transfer of the data to, still done
the storage of the applicant data
encrypted or password protected. In addition
were the unsecured applicant data
with a link to Google
hen, so that anyone with a Google
Research of the respective applicant names
come across their application documents
and these without access restrictions
could call.

fine concept
 
The work of the fine office of my service
place, together with the legal department of the
Federal Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BfDI) and the
data protection supervisory authorities of the countries
Berlin and Hesse, led to the development
of a German fine concept for companies
company, which on 16.10.2019 from
published at the data protection conference
became. The concept is provisional
until the adoption of European guidelines and
intended to harmonize the German
sanction practice and transparency
and traceability for the responsible
serve literal passages. Since the fine
83 paragraph 1 GDPR in each
effective and proportionate to the individual case
and had to be deterrent
a concept to be developed which
both the concrete facts and
also the so-called perpetrator-related characteristics,
i.e. in particular the economic
the respective responsible persons
takes into account. A catalog with fixed
responsible for certain violations
with off. The published concept
bears the economic circumstances
already in a first step calculation,
in which the companies – similar
the WpHG fine guidelines II of the BaFin

41

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus - sales-related according to size classes ka-
to be categorized in a next
Step a basic economic value
to build. At this sales-related
Company categorization is the
functional corporate concept
Recital 150 GDPR to be used. in one
further step, this core value will vary
according to the severity of the crime with a fact
gate multiplied and then in a final
th step based on further aggravating
or favorable criteria, including
also the profitability and profit of the
company, depending on the
fits. Previous practical experience
have shown that the concept on the one hand
those of the European legislator
intentional increase in fines
Comparison to fines under the BDSG
a. F. causes. On the other hand, they reach
Fines but not unreasonable
heights and may be subject to
most companies understand
will. The future developments
will show whether and, if so, to what extent
fine concept is to be adjusted.

The practical experiences of the first 18
Months since the GDPR came into effect
show that it is worthwhile to
to accept offers from my office
and to implement legal requirements
to avoid fines. As far as fine
proceedings were initiated, appeared in
many cases due to the good cooperation
tion with the fine office and the prompt
ten implementation of any requirements
no more imposing a fine
necessary so that the procedures
could be provided. The previous
but experience also shows that in such
cases in which sanctions are
ten is the violations with significantly higher
Fines are imposed as under the
old national legal regime.

1.12 Bye Bye Twitter

On December 30 of this year had to
I bid farewell to social media
announce dia platform Twitter. Since
tweeted there at @lfdi_ in November
bw the only German data protection
supervisory authority with an official
count about own news, commented
the
current data protection events,
exchanged in some intense, but
always relevant discussions
the data protectionist swarm on Twitter
out and was also available for immediate questions
responsive.

Since November 2017, the LfDI has been about
3,000 tweets from, the number of followers
of the account grew to 5,500 in the end.
I reached with my short messages
several within the last two years
million Twitter users and received thousands
multiple feedback with suggestions,
Assessments of our work - please
Fortunately, the friendly response outweighed
clearly. At the same time, I used
brisk and above all fast communication
on this platform to join me at the 150
Persons and instances to which I myself
followed, about current data protection issues,
Court decisions and national like
international political-parliamentary
to keep events up to date.

Already with the Facebook fan page decision
decision of the European Court of Justice
5 June 2018 (C-210/16) Eclipsed
the image for users of social media:
The ECJ ruled that the
Operator of a fan page next to the platform
form operator himself as the person responsible
to be considered in the sense of data protection
is - and thus in data protection
no longer bump into the platform alone
refer to their operator and his
can wash hands in innocence. In addition

42

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities was thus made clear that between
the two jointly responsible
a contract is to be concluded (cf. Art. 26
DS-GVO), in which the perception of
Obligations towards those affected
be regulated in a transparent and unambiguous manner
got to. And such contracts were and are
gene until today in a data protection
fair form. That was since the middle
of the year 2018 at least for public ones
and private operators of Facebook fan
pages clear that they - completely independent
from the question of whether the platforms
from members and non-members
process lawfully – their social media
formally unlawfully maintained
whether this legal situation also applies to other
re platforms than Facebook has been
controversially discussed below
in view of the increasing con-
vergence of social media offers (their
Functionalities are becoming more and more similar
the underlying business models
"Economic exploitation of personal
related data of the users" are identical)
however, can hardly be disputed.

Even more precarious – and even clearer –
the legal situation was determined by the
decision of the Federal Administrative Court of
September 11, 2019 (BVerwG 6 C 15.18),
that by way of a preliminary ruling
adopted by the ECJ in June 2018-
ne position in the German legal area
transferred: This was not only the
data protection responsibility
confirmed by the fan page operator, but
at the same time the supervisory authorities
granted at electoral discretion,
of violations of the law during operation
the platform optionally on each of the
responsibile - so also on the user
access: "Even in the area of data
protection it can be the requirement of an effective
active and effective hazard prevention
justify the person responsible

chen to use, its duty
can be affirmed without further ado and the
effective means of stopping the violation
be available.”

The Federal Administrative
according to the court on December 10th
2019 published decision
de the possibility of a “regulation to
the corner”: The supervisor can
adverse data processing on the platform
form also access the user and
him with measures such as warnings
or substantiate orders. Whether you do that
now selective discretion, hostage-taking or
calls pawn sacrifice is secondary. In the
thing is always about one not
reachable disruptors – the platform operators
ber - via an accessible interferer - the
Account operator – to put pressure,
comply with applicable law.

And why are most operators of
successful and far-reaching platform
form operators "not available"? Thereon
There's a two-part answer: First
once the GDPR ensured that
the new uniform data protection law
Europe is also implemented uniformly
(Keyword coherence method between
the supervisory authorities) and has
the so-called one stop shop
provides that for each data processor one
and only one supervisory authority responsible
is and makes the announcements. In case of
Facebook, Twitter and Co. this is the
sche supervisory authority, which with the
other government agency of the Republic of Ireland
country shares the reputation, particularly
and to act in a business-friendly manner. fact
is that it's Irish counterparts to date
has not succeeded, even one effective
Regulation towards the platform
to meet drivers. That means: others
European supervisory authorities are allowed to
Platform operator not effectively controlled

43

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 1. Priority areas, but the competent authority provides
no effective control for sure. With that
conditions that the Bun-
of the administrative court on the condition of
exercise of supervisory powers
opposite from places using the platform
has made. This could be considered
Warnings to users (Art. 58 para. 2
lit. a DS-GVO), later also to management
ments or even orders, their ac-
limit or close counts
(Art. 58 para. 2 lit. b and d GDPR).

It's not "beautiful" of course: it's essential
it would be more obvious and "fairer" to
stop violations of data protection at the source
len - especially since the users of the platforms us
assure with great regularity, no
exert any influence on the operators
can (which we can well understand
nen). Nevertheless: It is the users who
these platform operators as service providers
use to their public relations
with the greatest possible range and re-
to operate sonanz (as I do too
previously via Twitter), and thereby
the users zen the basic condition for
that many interested parties click on the social media
slide platforms are lured - and there
their rights may be violated.

Intermediate question: But act now
the platform operators unlawfully,
so treat user data against the
Provisions of the GDPR? For this is to
next to state that there are tasks
be the Irish regulator, this
to identify and evaluate. If this
but does not happen effectively, the allowed
remaining supervisors hands not
sit back and have to – ahead
against the background of social media
tion by responsible bodies, via
which they exercise supervision themselves – a
Get a picture of the legal situation. Thereafter
sees it based on the available

information, in particular the data
declarations of the platform operators,
and subject to other knowledge
the competent supervisory authority
looks like this:

Almost all of the common social media
dia platforms are currently not data-
usable in a protective manner. Many platforms
collect data from registered users
and non-users, on their own
Website, in your own apps and on
Third Party Websites and Apps. you submit
at its own discretion data to third parties
and also reserve the sale of all
data before.

The processing will neither
in terms of the technologies used,
nor the affected data types, processing
processing purposes or recipients specifically
and finally mentioned.

The processing is extensive
without legal basis: one informs
voluntary, prior, active, for the specific
ten individual case and separately explained as well
consent that can be revoked at any time
ligation is not queried. Instead of this
you have to agree when registering
that the data protection guidelines "apply
th". Other legal bases (Art. 6
Paragraph 1 subparagraph 1 lit b-f GDPR) are open
obviously not relevant.

One way, as a platform user, as
Third-party website or third-party app operator
an agreement regarding the
joint responsibility (Art. 26 DS-
GVO) to conclude with the platform
often not apparent.

The conclusions from these
first of all, the responsible
draw yourself and be clear about it
whether they belong to the people they

44

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Focus closes? As compensation for the then lost
A bundle is ideal for a wide range
communicative measures: We will
our quarterly newsletter
strengthen, set up your own podcast
and check if we're using a daily
Email Info Service
those feedbacks
previously addressed directly via
Twitter could be given one
Circle of subscribers to our mail ser-
vices can continue to ensure.

So: Even after Twitter, the LfDI will be like this
communicative, creative, responsive and
stay as spontaneous as possible.
We make it!

ten purposes under these circumstances
cial media platforms even further
can zen. It goes without saying
that public bodies subject to the reservation
subject to the law and in particular
re have constitutional ties,
much faster and stricter here
have to go as a non-public body
len, as companies and associations that
on these platforms mostly from
are traveling. The LfDI will
therefore first the authorities of the country,
with whom we have been intensive since mid-2019
conversations are held, their behavior
address them and try to engage in dialogue
to improve the situation
wear. Whatever the positions of the
authorities are involved: the way it is now,
there is no way it can stay.

This also means that the question of alternative
ven addressed - and there it does not see
particularly comfortable: A data
protection-compliant alternative to Facebook
is far and wide not in sight, Facebook
is at least in Europe a kind of monopoly
list, which has a negative effect on their change
willingness to pay. at
There is one on Twitter with Mastodon
functional competitors with
data protection compliant decentralized structure –
however, it still lacks range.
Otherwise there is just in the public
sector the opportunity by building up a
a self-sufficient state platform
and create legitimate alternatives.
Initially, such counter-models
mer a bit awkward – but that has to be
don't stay like that. And towards public
The legislature could
Mandatory use of the public platform
arrange and thus for enough "traffic"
worries.

How is the LfDI going to continue if
he opened his Twitter account at the end of January

45

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Priorities 46

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 1. Main areas of internal security
2.
2.1. cell query

The Code of Criminal Procedure (StPO) sees in
§ 100g paragraph 3 among those mentioned there
Prerequisites the possibility of im
As part of preliminary investigations all in
traffic data accumulated in a radio cell
to raise.

Under traffic data within the meaning of the
Communications Act (TKG) understands
the data that a telecom
nication arise, for example the
number of the connections involved
such as the time and place of a conversation. In the
Radio cell query require investigators from
the telecommunications providers all
traffic data relating to a specific
ten period in the area of certain func-
cells were registered to offenders
identify. Doing so regularly
unavoidable also traffic data of third parties,
Namely those persons raised who
themselves – without being accused or
times - in the queried radio
cell with her mobile phone
to have. § 101a paragraph 6 StPO sees a
Obligation to notify the parties
ten of the affected telecommunications
before. However, reference is made to the
options according to § 101 paragraph 4
StPO. § 101 paragraph 4 sentence 5 StPO
with the case that the ideas
ity of a secret investigation
person affected by the remedial measure
is known, so a notification
practically can only be done if before
through appropriate research
their identity is established. With that
does the standard not refer to a
denied, whose identity at this stage
of the investigation is already known
is, but on a coincidence of the
mediation concerned, not

suspected third party. Regarding the-
This group of people can investigate
gen the encroachment on fundamental rights both for the
target person as well as for other participants
deepen The legislature therefore has
provided for in Section 101 Paragraph 4 Sentence 5 StPO
a decision to the investigating authorities
transferred, especially since the identity of
affected persons often only with high
hem effort can be determined. Regularly
appeal to law enforcement agencies
to this and waive the notification
due.

In Berlin you can now go here
another, more privacy-friendly one
Path. Citizens should through the introduction
better informed of a transparency system
be mized when their phone data in
investigation procedure was recorded
the. This "cell query transparency"
renz system" (FTS) works in such a way that
one at a specially at the senate
administration for justice, consumer protection and
anti-discrimination information
mation place his mobile phone number in
an "opt-in list" (list of interested
declarations, cf. fts.berlin.de) deposited
can. After registration received
the mobile phone user a notification
about capturing his number if
these as part of a radio cell query
ge by law enforcement agencies
Cellular operator was queried. the
However, you will be notified via SMS
only when the preliminary investigation
has ended, i.e. either charges are increased
or the proceedings have been discontinued
became. The notification contains i.a.
Information about the date, the time, the
approximate place and the basic legal
lay the radio cell query.

47

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2. Internal security From a transparency perspective, I think so
AGV for extremely innovative and recommendable
urgently, the introduction in Ba-
to examine den-Württemberg seriously.
First contact with
Ministry of Justice gives rise to certain
Hope. From there I was given
shared that they first wanted to experience
report of the Berlin Senate
wait and then “if necessary
in association with the other state judiciary
administrations” to decide. This one
restriction is expected
to a postponement of the deployment
lead the never-ending day. here
I demand more courage from the state government,
to put yourself at the top and in the spirit
a progressive, citizen-friendly one
management to set an example.

2.2 Eurodac

Not only at federal level and at
ne of the countries have security authorities
Files with personal data.
Also at the European level
various purposes information system
teme created the basis for
effective cooperation between
competent authorities in each individual state
form the

That dealings of national authorities
with personal data in the European
cal context also needs to be checked
as with purely domestic processing
gene, is obvious. In certain
the European legislature is sufficient
regular checks by the national
len data protection supervisory authorities explicitly
required. This also includes the
supervisory authorities of the federal states are affected,
as far as the use of these databases
ken goes through the respective state police.

In order to comply with this control obligation,

my office has first of all
European
fingerprint identification
ment system Eurodac.
To help identify the
Responsibility according to the so-called Dublin-III-Ver-
ordinance that regulates which Member State
the EU for the implementation of an asylum
responsible for driving, was established in 2000
the establishment of the fingerprint data
bank Eurodac decided the 2003 den
started operation. The two EC regulations
the Eurodac procedure
were regulated in 2013 by the from the
Regulation (EU) No.
603/2013 of the European Parliament
and Council of June 26, 2013 on the
Set up Eurodac for matching
fingerprint data for the purpose of
effective application of the regulation
(EU) No. 604/2013 determining the
teria and methods for determining the
Member State responsible for examining a
by a third-country national or
stateless person in a Member State
applied for international protection
is responsible and above the security
and law enforcement requests
Security and Law Enforcement
authorities of the Member States and Europol
on the comparison with Eurodac data (OJ
L 180 p. 1; hereafter: Eurodac-VO).
The primary purpose of the Eurodac Regulation is to
determining the identity of persons,
who have applied for asylum or who
galen crossing the external borders of
EU were picked up and to determine
ment, whether a third-country national or
Stateless person residing illegally in a
member state is already in another
applied for asylum in another Member State
Has. In Eurodac are essentially
Fingerprint data saved. On to-
question can the information be given whether
the requested person is already in one of the
Member States submitted an application for asylum
would have.

48

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2nd internal security 2015 became the scope of the
Eurodac-VO extended so that
also the law enforcement authorities
Access to the Eurodac database
Purposes of criminal prosecution and
defense was made possible, as far as it is
to terrorist offenses or otherwise
serious criminal offenses (Article 19
sentence 1 in conjunction with Article 1 paragraph 2
Eurodac Regulation). In individual cases, the
ask a reasoned request that the
formal and content-related requirements
of Article 20 Paragraph 1 of the Eurodac Regulation
Fulfills:

• Formally, other data must first
(national fingerprint data
vi
queried

share
tenbanks,
sa information system)
("query cascade").
 

PRÜM research,

 

• The content must be about terrorist or
other serious crimes (1),

•  the

adjustment

got to

concrete

be required (2) and
 

 

• there must be sufficient reasons
genes, which allow to assume that the
soon become essential for prevention,
uncovering or investigating any of the
contribute to the offenses in question (3).

The existence of these conditions
is the responsibility of the data
protection supervisory authorities (Article 30
sentence 1, Article 32 paragraph 2, Article 33 paragraph
sentence 2 Eurodac Regulation).

As part of our exam, we let ourselves
from the Baden-Württemberg State Criminal Police Office
save the (standardized) requests
Eurodac research from 2018
submit. It is a total of
16 operations. In neither case did they arise
for us indications that cast doubt on the

are the legal requirements for
would have justified the database comparison:

• In all cases was before the application
the
Run through "query cascade".
been. In terms of content, it worked in all cases
to law enforcement measures.
 

• The requests

lay

the following
based on: Participation in a
ner
Union,
terrorism, gang theft, human
trafficking and homicides (1).

criminal

 

• The comparisons were made on a case-by-case basis
genes, with sufficient reasons
de passed for the assumption that
the comparison provide information
that might be essential to the pursuit
of these offenses would contribute (2).
.

• Finally, in all cases, the
justified suspicion that the
assign a person category
arrange goods by the Eurodac Regulation
are recorded (3).

The result was the handling of the police
with this information system therefore
not to complain about.

2.3 Insulting songs in the

Football stadium

Anyone who watches football matches on TV
looks, gets next to the actual
play on the lawn regularly
also a glimpse into the spectator
behavior – in picture and sound. stadium
viewfinders are so far for an unlimited
Generally recognizable and
in case of doubt also identifiable. image and
Sound recordings of sporting events
are an integral part of the offer
public and private television stations.
No stadium visitor would think

49

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2. Internal security such transmissions under the
from the point of view of data protection in question
to deliver. But sometimes it is different
then seen when a club
dionhappens optically and optionally
also acoustically documented, or if
this is done by the police. It says
the not unjustified concern in the background
reason that these recordings are
case disadvantageous for the person concerned
measures are used. So too
in a case where we deal with a
difficult had to deal with, in which it was about
the image and sound recording of "slander"
sang" in the stadium of a football club
the 1st Bundesliga went.

A Baden-Württemberg football association
one managed in the past too
because of the financial commitment
a private person promotion to the 1.
Bundesliga. This was repeated in the
criticism and leads to massive hostilities
of the patron by fans of guest
one who engages in foul insults
expressed. Neither the club nor the
Addressee of the insults wanted this
continue to accept. In order to prefer
hen, were image and sound recordings that
during the game with appropriate
technical facilities of the association
were made, used. For this must
you know that the German football
bund the clubs of the 1st and 2nd Bundesliga
as well as the 3rd league and the regional leagues
Provision of a video surveillance system
ge committed in their stages, which of
Police made available for use
must become. Not mandatory and
Microphones, on the other hand, are not common. That
one in the present stadium
is installed appears to be related to the local
some special features together. like that
be it, in any case it came with a foot-
ball game back to the - unfortunately usual
- foul insults. The police took

this for the occasion, from the video recordings
of the guest fan block individuals who
participated in the insults
pick out and their data both
the club as well as the injured
to share. The club then imposed
Stadium bans and the injured posed
prosecution for insult.

It is a matter of data protection law
the image and sound recordings for personal
name-related data. For personal
zug it is sufficient that a person whose
specific identity is not (yet) certain,
by linking with additional information
functions can ultimately be identified
can. In the present case, the police
individual people from the guest fan block,
which can be seen in the insults
involved, with the help of so-called scene
other visiting club officials are investigating
could. Participation in the insults
gene could be detected by
the sound recordings with the lip movements
were compared. The club and
the injured person then received the information
from the police so that they can
could assert claims. Of the
Personal reference of the image and sound recordings
here for all three responsible
chen be accepted as they each
had legal means at their disposal that
allow the persons concerned
based on additional information about the
Third party (officials or police with knowledge of the scene)
decreed to have it determined (on this:
ECJ, judgment of October 19, 2016, C-582/14,
Celex no. 62014CJ0582, paragraphs 47, 49).

For the question of data protection law
Justification of this data processing
the following was determined by the police
to deliver:
The police take on both tasks of
driver defense and criminal prosecution
true. In one case, the basic

50

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2nd internal security for data processing according to the
Police Act, in the other case according to the
Code of Criminal Procedure. In individual cases
dual-purpose measures
the (recognizable) reason or aim of the
police action and, if
if to determine its center of gravity,
whether the disputed measures of
security or law enforcement
served. In this case, that was something
complicated, which is because the police
show law at football events though
basically image and sound recordings
leaves, but only for the purpose, in
to be able to intervene in good time in the event of
to ward off the danger. Now was-
de on the part of the police but admitted, at
Insults during football game
not wanting to intervene immediately
as this increases the risk of escalation
hold. The sound recordings were pure
criminally motivated. on the police
law as the legal basis for the sound
so you couldn't take it
appointed. Rather, the extent to which
Investigation general clause of § 163 of
Criminal Procedure Code (StPO) turned off, the
according to the police also fundamental
ge can be for sound recordings. This is
not without controversy, but could of
are not completely excluded from us.
In particular, from our point of view, the
Special regulation of § 100f StPO (acoustic
cal surveillance outside of residential
space) not relevant here, since it, as
the diatribes were recorded, yet
no accused in the legal sense
no. However, since the initial
suspicion of a criminal offense (insult) im
room was against § 163 paragraph 1
Sentence 2 StPO (“Investigations of any kind”) as
Basis for the sound recordings nothing
to remember. The (optical) video surveillance
Investigation as such, on the other hand, could refer to § 21
Paragraph 1 sentence 2 number 2 of the police
set (PolG) ("if on

due to the type and size of the event
genes and accumulations according to experience
significant dangers to public safety
safety can arise").

On the part of the association was of the following
to go out:
According to Article 6 paragraph 1 subparagraph 1
Letter f of the basic data protection
ordinance (DS-GVO) is processing
lawfully if they are to uphold the
legitimate interests of the person responsible
chen or a third party is required, so
far not the interests or fundamental rights
and fundamental freedoms of the persons concerned
son, the protection of personal
Data require prevail. Here came
we came to the conclusion that the association
was required, image and sound recordings from the
dion happen to produce and from the
police to collect the names of those
who violate the stadium regulations
had.

The club has the domiciliary rights at the stadium
on site to. It includes the power
to decide who is in the stadium
on area stops. The owner of the
right is therefore entitled to its
safeguard necessary measures
seize, d. H. to refer interferers and
them entering for the future
state that a house ban
speak. An observation on perception
Agreement of domiciliary rights serves both one
preventive as well as a repressive one
Purpose by firstly violating
the house rules or even criminal offences
the area by deterrence
hinders and on the other hand the persecution
civil claims or the criminal
tracking by evaluating the recorded
footage taken for the purpose
be made possible for the preservation of evidence
(OVG Lüneburg, judgment of September 29
2014 – 11 LC 114/13 –, juris).

51

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2. Internal security The interest of the association in being
Being able to exercise house rights can
recognized as legitimate in this sense
will. According to § 11 number 7 letter
d of the General Ticket Terms and Conditions
ments (ATGB) of TSG 1899 Hoffenheim
are (among other things) obscenely offensive or provocative
offensive slogans are prohibited. ver
The association can object to this in accordance with §
11 sanction number 9 and 10 ATGB,
up to a stadium ban. By-
Setting the domiciliary rights requires the
Processing of personal data in
a form that is appropriate to the proof
to obtain legal certainty of the infringement
bring. So it is crucial
the result of a balancing of interests
on. It should be said that the interest
especially of those who intentionally
lich against those known to them and by
terms and conditions accepted by them
violate it, in the event of a violation
against sanctions
to remain, rather to be rated as low
ten is. That image and sound recordings on
take place on the stadium grounds, § 11
Number 8 ATGB pointed out; this is the
known to every stadium visitor
attributable. Also, the fact that
video surveillance in football stadiums
takes place, generally, but at any rate
regular visitors to football matches
len, are assumed to be known
(Recital 47 of the GDPR). To the
to others, the insults are
public and for an indefinite circle
perceptible, which incidentally
is intended and in this respect leads to a
general reduction in the need for protection
leads (cf. also: BVerfG, decision of 9
October 2002 - 1 BvR 1611/96 -, BVerfGE
106, 28-51; ECJ, judgment of 04.05.2017,
C-13/16, Celex no. 62016CJ0013). In addition
are insults criminal
did. The fundamental rights to privacy and
Privacy are not a cloak, under

basically follow the violation of the law
loose could be committed.

The injured person was also there
to assume that he has the data of those
against whom he has filed a criminal complaint for insults
wanted to ask, on the basis of
Article 6 paragraph 1 subparagraph 1 letter
be f DS-GVO could legitimately raise.

The power of the police to name the
the club or the injured party
ten, we took §
475 paragraph 4 StPO or §§ 406e, 385 paragraph
Clause 3 StPO.

Ultimately, we came to the conclusion that
none of those responsible
has acted incorrectly under intellectual property law.

2.4 Checking the implementation of
divisions of the prosecutor
about the outcome of the
according to § 482 StPO
(MiStrA No. 11)

Since the storage of personal
Data in police files in proceedings
rens settings regularly subject
data protection checks
is our authority and we in the
past in the context of case-by-case
several times data storage
ments in the police information system
POLAS were able to determine the due
the public prosecutor's office
disposal should have been deleted,
we decided to use the police
security and deletion practice of such
Procedure based on random samples once
to look at more closely.

Case files should be included in our examination
are included, which are
authority according to § 170 paragraph 2 of the penal

52

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2nd internal security code of procedure (StPO) because of proven
innocence or were hired because
because no criminal offense was committed. To
§ 482 paragraph 2 sentence 1 StPO informed
the public prosecutor's office the police
en who dealt with the matter
about the outcome of the proceedings. On-
Based on this notification, the
Police on further storage in
police information system POLAS. the
Storage of data from investigative
however, moving in POLAS is only permitted
if a suspicion is justified
can. This is not the case when fact-
suspected by the public prosecutor
decision has been cleared.

For the storage of data from
mediation procedure is primarily § 38 of the
Police Act (PolG) is decisive. In from-
Sentence 2 says there: “For preventive purposes
Combating criminal offenses is the
protection, modification and use of
personal data up to a period of
he required two years if on
Reason actual evidence of
there is a suspicion that the person concerned
son has committed a crime. Such a
There is no suspicion if the affected
ne person in criminal proceedings legally binding
acquitted, the opening of the main
proceedings against you incontestably
refuses or the proceedings are not only provisional
fig is set and himself for the reasons
the decision shows that the affected
fene person does not or does not commit the offences
committed unlawfully.”

files sent to government offices
However, there are also procedures that follow
§ 170 paragraph 2 StPO were set,
but because the factual
unlawfulness or guilt
could be proven. Since in this
sen cases of suspicion that the offense
was committed, usually not
is cleared and a residual suspicion according to §
38 paragraph 2 sentence 1 PolG
can, with this type of setting is a
Storage of the data for a period of time
allowed for two years. If actually
There are indications that the
continue to commit a crime in the future
is, the data according to § 38 Ab-
Clause 3 PolG also stored
be cherted.

Since we are from a public prosecutor's
finally sent procedural files
were terminated on the grounds
were det that factual,
unlawfulness or guilt after
were instructable, we demanded of this
another ten more files with the
hiring justifications to be examined
after. A few were among the
from the other prosecutors
sent files but also procedures,
due to a procedural obstacle
have been set, e.g. B. because no penalty
application has been made or is already
tion had occurred. A procedure was
according to §§ 374, 376 StPO due to lack of
the public interest on the private
dismissed.

For our test we requested
a total of five prosecutors each
ten case files from the area
of the general departments that are in
the months of September to November
2018 most recent (overall and final)
terminated for the above reasons
became. Among the officials

We decided not only to
finally based on our test criteria
speaking events at the police headquarters
sidien to ask, but us incidentally
also see how the police in the
whose operations with regard to a further
ren data storage had decided.
Of the 60 sent

53

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2nd internal security driving files we closed in advance but 16th
Cases out because the criminal charges are not from
the state police but by others
authorities or private individuals directly
the public prosecutor's office were sent
the public prosecutor's office itself
had initiated treatment procedures or because
the investigative procedure only
directed towards unknown persons
te. With regard to the remaining 44 procedures,
we turned to a total of six
liceipraesidien with the request to provide us with information
about existing data storage
these processes as well as the respective
to give storage modalities.

Among the 44 requested procedures,
29 cases were found, which due to
dismissed innocence or therefore discontinued
were noisy because the displayed behavior
the public prosecutor no criminal
stood had fulfilled. From these procedures
were only total on the part of the police
18 operations by means of a criminal complaint
presented to the public prosecutor,
ter also three traffic offences. In the
other procedure was apparently already
assumed by the police
that no criminal liability of the accused
or there was no criminal offense and the report
only in the form of a report by the public prosecutor
shank submitted, so no at all
data storage in POLAS
became. Traffic offenses are
additionally not saved in POLAS.

Fortunately, we were able to
that none of the requested investigative
procedure, which is due to the operative part of the
public prosecutor’s recruitment
cannot be stored further
allowed, was stored in POLAS.

For other reasons for hiring
ment procedures were
mainly data storage in POLAS

against which there are basically no objections
de could be collected. However, fell
also here again that sometimes too long
ge storage periods were assigned, in particular
special if the preliminary investigation
in the compound file "Kriminalaktennach-
white” (KAN) were saved. About the-
We already had this problem in ours
34. Activity report related
with the control of the allocation of the
lung support note "HWAO"
reported. For the cases now identified
a ten-year storage
frist fixed thing in view of here
underlying facts and
especially due to the statements in
the public prosecutor's office
disposal was disproportionately long. So
became e.g. B. in the case of a displayed cor
perjury offense in the hiring
stated that not
could be made whether the accused
attacked or just against one
attack defended. In another
case was the accused of extortion
solution has been reported. In the
the cessation order informed the state
to ensure that the news
would have contained hints that
indicated that the accused had
may attempt to recover the injured party
to blackmail or at least to force
however, the content of the messages is not
been clear. In another case
for aggravated extortion
the public prosecutor stated
that the statements of those involved
verbal and the information of the business
some of which were not credible.
Due to the underlying material
behave and in particular the formulation
We see the public prosecutor's efforts
a ten-year storage period in these
cases as disproportionate. In the
Decision about the storage period must be made
always consider the individual case

54

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2. Internal security was provided with reasons. The one from the
files sent to the public prosecutor's office
we could see that in most
th procedure an MAV with reasons
the police were ordered to
are in the still saved cases
but only then a justified
there was a court order if the order
affidavit in paper form. In the
majority of the procedures
only sent electronically and
a setting abbreviation is transmitted, which
ches in the cases concerned
reason for the position "procedural obstacle" or
“Factuality, illegality
or guilt cannot be proven". le
only in one case was it reported that
in addition to the electronic MAV also an in
paper form was received.

Our examination has shown that at the
Implementation of the MAVs no fundamental
problems related to the
temporal storage in POLAS and
the preliminary investigations that are due to the
public prosecutor’s recruitment
addition no further storage authorization
were also deleted from POLAS.
 
However, it turns out again and again that
for determining the storage period each
individually evaluated and checked
whether the specified storage period
based on the special circumstances of
is really proportionate on a case-by-case basis. in the
Doubt should be
order of the public prosecutor
was not transmitted, this requested
and included in the decision
will.

even if for extortion de-
likes according to § 38 PolG i. V. m. § 5 paragraph 2
Number 2 DVO PolG basically one
ten-year storage period would be permissible.

We informed the two responsible police
zeipräsidien our view regarding
of the selected storage periods with and ba-
about the allocation of storage periods
to be critically examined again. a butt
license head office has already informed us in writing
that it shares our opinion and
a reduction in the storage period
let have. The written reply of the
their police headquarters is currently standing
still out.
The cases mentioned show that
the storage of procedures by the part
be hired by the public prosecutor
often also the justified adjustment
disposal may be relevant to at the
determination of the storage period
to maintain moderation. The transmission
a reasoned hiring order
on the part of the public prosecutor's office, however
not intended in every case. In § 482
Paragraph 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that the state
administration: "She informs the police
hear in the cases of paragraph 1
the outcome of the proceedings by
division of the decision formula, the
outgoing body and the date and
the type of decision. The Übersen
the notification to the Federal Central
gister is permissible if required
also of judgment or one with reasons
provided hiring decision.”

The question in which cases the transfer
reasoned hiring instructions
tion appears necessary is open. in the
We were interested in the context of our examination
therefore whether the MAV on the part of the state
administration electronically or in paper form
sent by the public prosecutor
was and whether the hiring order

55

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 2. Internal security 3. Video surveillance
3.1 Everything ready for the inspection? –

video surveillance in fitness
studio

There are numerous recurring
complain about cameras in gyms
bye. Even in changing areas
which still have cameras attached. the
written control five randomly selected
selected companies confirm the impression
a comprehensive monitoring of the
Hobby athletes, however, only partially.

Already in the 33rd activity report we
in detail about the legal framework
monitoring fitness studios
directs. The high number of complaints
gave the impression that in almost all
Studios surveillance with cameras
takes place. were checked without cause
now five randomly selected studios and
different size, position and orientation
tion.

Three studios told us no over-
use surveillance cameras. in one
small gym in a rural area
with only four full-time employees, a large part will
of the training area is permanently monitored.
Whether the monitoring of recreational athletes
is also required is not yet clear. the
Reasoning, after which a waiver
on the cameras an additional personal
workload of up to 560 hours per week
would arise and ultimately the
drive would have to be adjusted, could
not convince us. Is privacy for
the operators a foreign word? - Whole and
not at all. The exchange with the data
protection officer shows that
one feels very comfortable in the small company
dealt with the new law
Has. There may be a mis-

56

understanding of range
the traffic safety obligation. For protection
the customer from any inconvenience
safety and every imaginable misfortune
Neither do gym operators
obligated. So always be careful
yourself when you exercise!
At the fifth controlled studio,
if it is a franchisee
with 24-hour operation. First had
we wrote to the franchisor.
Their lawyer referred us to the
franchisee. Contractual requirements
with regard to a possible video
guards would not be made. If a
franchisee of his client video
use cameras or not, don't lie in
the sphere of his client. The answer
the franchisee is still pending. It
wouldn't surprise us if we
soon a letter from an old
would get to know: The one already mentioned
Lawyer, this time under the letterhead
a data protection Gm-
bra. According to the website
is the data protection officer
borne by the franchisee.

The GDPR includes the framework for fines
data breaches increased significantly.
This appears to be happening in the fitness industry
but not yet to have got around-
ben. We continue to receive complaints
those of athletes who use video surveillance
in changing rooms. One
Surveillance reaches into the private sphere here
the athlete one, which is why it is one
of the most intensive interventions in personal
property rights. The ones worthy of protection
The interests of those affected prevail
these areas. A data processing
is therefore also in the case of documented
guardianship interests unlawful.

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 3rd video surveillance Even if there are still many complaints
received, show the already carried out
ten checks: the operators of fitness
studios are in terms of data protection
not all top fit, but capable of learning. we stay-
ben on the ball.

has mostly not taken place. mostly are
Information signs available. However
these do not usually address the
demands of the supervisory authorities.

Result of the written checks:

3.2 Our daily bread –
video surveillance in
bakeries

There have been complaints about the for years
Video surveillance of employees in
bakeries with us. have this year
we took a closer look: at controls
on site and in writing.

We were unannounced in 26 bakeries
on site. At fifteen companies we have
written checks carried out. When
is surveillance allowed? a
buyer explained it to us as follows:
"I always thought it was for safety
may be monitored. But if
I'm being mugged now, then help me
not that either. This is way too slow.
It's always like, 'You have to
sign that now'. But I think-
I don't have to. But what
should you do it at work? I
always say: trust is part of it.”
With that she summarized the most important aspects
short and concise together. Detailed
and in technical language you will find more about this
in our publications on video
monitoring.

Result of the on-site checks:

The purpose of the surveillance
was mostly unclear. the behavior
and performance monitoring and education of
employee theft was only
cases expressly stated as the purpose
give. Information for employees

Almost all establishments that use cameras
want to use the recording
investigating crimes committed by employees
ren or pursue. Documented
starting points for a specific suspicion
have not yet been able to
be rejected or are completely inadequate
according

Smaller bakeries often do without
Cameras – even if the
boss is not always on site. a
buyer explained to us: “We don't have any
Cameras and we even need them
Not. Our boss trusts us. We have
a great boss.” For lack of
for a violation we have the content
Unfortunately I didn't get to know her. if its
Employees speak of him like that, he has to
be a very happy person.

In some establishments with many branches
regular monitoring of employees
right system. A company in the field of
Security technology is on surveillance
specialized and has several branches
alkettes to its customers. Instead of his
Customers explained to us the manager
the necessity of its products at the
lefon: "Simple housewives should
don't reach into the cash register. Frequently
the one left by the man. If
If you have children, you have to think about
whether you buy the milk for 1.10 euros or for 80
buy cents. These are people who are financial
need. They take money out as best they can
goes. She thinks: It doesn't hurt anyone
the boss comes with the Porsche anyway-
hazards. When it comes out, excuse me-

57

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 3. Video surveillance usually occurs and it doesn't come
to be reported.” The statement presented here
general suspicion against all employees
run into the businesses of his customers
is of course anything but that
legally required to document
the indications for the justification of
a suspicion. And out of responsibility
are the bakeries with a position
action by the security company, of course
Not. Responsible in terms of data
General Protection Regulation is and will remain the
bakery itself. As far as an order
processing agreement has been submitted,
are also here very important
gene left open: technical-organizational
rical measures to protect the data
- None. The controlled establishments
must assume that we are with
not be satisfied with such answers.

Some customers draw consequences.
A customer informed us as part of her
Complaint with: "For several weeks
I will not buy from this bakery again
a. Before that I was there almost every day.”

While many small, owner-managed
can do without supervision,
relies on a whole series of branch
operated on questionable business model
le of security technology. employees
are under general suspicion for no reason
placed. We counter this with supervisory
legal measures and in some
Cases also with fine proceedings.

3.3 Legitimate Interests

Prepared for operators of video cameras
it rarely troubles an interest in
to monitor people
wear. Do you often want to
breakage, theft, vandalism or
protect against attacks. Many operators do
find it very difficult to

legitimate interest towards the supervisory
authority to justify and
to explain.

A requirement of a lawful
video surveillance is that the
security measure of maintaining a
legitimate interest of the person responsible
chen or a third party. under consideration
here comes the protection against burglary,
theft, vandalism or assault.
These are common goals of a video surveillance
watch. As a legitimate interest
for the operation of a video surveillance
investment ideal, economic or legal
can be of a nature, these interests are
also generally worthy of protection. Justified
is a surveillance interest only
then, if lawful, sufficient
clearly formulated and not purely speculative
is (cf. Opinion 06/2014 of the Arti-
kel-29 data protection working group on the concept of
legitimate interest of the processing
processing of those responsible in accordance with Article 7
of Directive 95/46/EG (WP 217), p. 32,
p. 70.). The Federal Administrative Court
leads in its judgment of March 27, 2019
(Az. 6C 2.18, Rn. 28) from:

“The viewpoints of prevention and
Investigating criminal offenses generally requires
legitimate interests within the meaning of § 6b paragraph 1
No. 3 BDSG old version (editorial notes
kung: The legitimate interest is found
now in Art. 6 Paragraph 1 Letter f DS-
GMO). You can set up video surveillance
but only then as objectively justifiable
justify if a dangerous situation
exists, which over the general
risk goes beyond. Such a hazard
can only be derived from actual
nits yield; subjective fears
or a feeling of insecurity
not from."

For video surveillance operators

58

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 3. Video surveillance means the following: damage,
Incidents in the past or others
Events that constitute a dangerous situation
can justify tiv, must opposite
be proven to the supervisory authority
the. Such evidence can only
from a specific description
speaking incidents arise. At least
should include the nature of the event, the location,
the timing and frequency of
cases to be specified. A description
exercise should be as accurate as possible
for example with date and time.
Also specifying the amount of damage, a
description of the damaged object,
Damage reports to an insurance
tion or reports to the police
the importance of one's own
to justify surveillance interests and
for example compared to mere trivial
delimit crimes. Concrete Incidents
do not have to be with the monitor
themselves have taken place. in certain
ten cases, a dangerous situation can arise
also result from the fact that - with certain
temporal connection - comparable
incidents or assaults in the immediate
close proximity have taken place
ben. Here are incidents to prove from
which a temporal, factual and
local connection to own surveillance
development interest. Only in exceptional
case is evidence of a purely abstract
dangerous situation sufficient. For example
if there is a situation which after all
common life experience typically
is dangerous. For example in shops
shops that sell valuable goods
(e.g. jewellers) or those with regard to
property crimes, especially
are endangered (e.g. petrol stations).

Subjective fears or a feeling
of the uncertainty justify
no legitimate interest in a
ner video surveillance. As a feeling, "Si-

security” incomprehensible. Feelings can
cannot be quantified or empirically
point. A person can join one
certain places feel unsafe, though
a danger does not actually exist or
is rationally justified. The one who is unsure
cher “feels” cannot be automatic
the right to be granted, quite real
encroach on the personal rights of third parties
fen. Would an immeasurable feeling for
such an intervention might suffice
Monitoring measures continuously
sharpens and video surveillance boundless
be extended to public spaces.
The right of data subjects to information
self-determination would almost
evaluates. A sentimental assertion
would be enough to limit it.
The interest, the felt security
increase, can therefore only
materially justifiable interest.
For the same reason also justifies
an apparently deterrent effect
taken by video surveillance
men no permanent and occasional
encroachment on the rights of third parties.

A legitimate interest in a video
monitoring must be concrete and
be demonstrably justified. incidents
events and damage are therefore
to be documented (date, type and place of the
incident, amount of damage, etc.). criminal record
gene and insurance notifications should
to prove the monitoring interest
be kept.

3.4 Guidance on

video surveillance

The operator of a video surveillance
is obliged to comply with the
to comply with data protection regulations. The legal
Testing of an installation is case by case
different and not necessarily easy.
The operator must have indefinite legal

59

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 3. interpret video surveillance terms, documentation and
Observe transparency regulations, alter-
Check native measures, protect
identify the interests of those affected
and this in individual cases with his own
balance surveillance interests. Around
the operators to comply with legal
cher regulations to facilitate and them
ways to use it legitimately
video cameras, publish
and revise the supervisory reports
constantly hear guidance on the
different topics. Especially
the nationwide working group on video
surveillance – under the direction of Ba-
Württemberg stands - delivers in its
constantly new in a work area
and updated information material.

Video surveillance by public
Jobs in Baden-Württemberg

graffiti on the town hall wall, a damaged
park bench or a littered school
court. Improper Conduct or Vanda-
ism causes costs and is – often
also for residents - annoying. To dem
to meet, is often and quickly the in-
installation of a video surveillance system
considered or even in general
so decided. "What's that talking?
versus? Cameras monitor us too
otherwise at every turn.” like each other
decision makers think.
A public body must
be aware that they are equipped with video surveillance
genes in fundamental rights of filmed persons
intervenes. This intervention can only
be done cheaply when a data processing
the requirements of a legal basis
ge fulfilled. In Baden-Württemberg since
June 2018 the admissibility of a video
surveillance of publicly accessible spaces
regulated in § 18 LDSG. The norm gives way
in some places from the previous
write off. On our website we have

an orientation for the application of the regulation
published. She supports
public authorities in the process of
monitoring in accordance with the
according to the DS-GVO and § 18 LDSG
judge. The rules are explained
the requirements of a transparent
Information signs shown and on
technical and organizational protective measures
took pointed out.

Use of bodycams by private individuals
security company

Prepare private security companies
their employees now with mobile
common body cameras, so-called body
cams off. Lead as surveillance purposes
they protect employees from over-
seizing or obtaining evidence
for civil claims. vi-
le hope for a deterrent or
de-escalating effect of the cameras. Of the
private use of bodycams entails
some privacy risks. at
use in public places
there is a risk that those affected by their
fundamental rights only to a limited extent
make need. In addition, passers-by have to
detailed film or sound recordings
fear if equipped with bodycams
te security forces patrolled on a
to do in a well-visited area
or crossing a crowd.
Depending on the attachment and use of the
Camera can also covert it
data processing and monitoring
measures come. The use of a
Bodycam by private security company
accept is Art. 6 paragraph 1 letter
f GDPR to measure. What from the point of view of
supervisory authorities in the case of such
set of body cameras should be noted,
you can in our guide
read. This is on our website
released.

60

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 3rd Video Surveillance Guidelines of the European Data
Committee on Video Surveillance
watch

At the European level, the European
sche Data Protection Committee in July 2019
a guideline on video surveillance
taken. After the procedure for
Public participation completed
is, the content of the guideline will be
monitoring systems throughout Europe
turned. The guideline becomes the interpretation
the GDPR
for video surveillance
have a significant say. The document
is published on the website of the data
reference
(www.datenschutzkonferenz-on-
line.de) published.

video surveillance through
non-public bodies

To the European guideline on video transmission
wachung will change in the coming year
Release of an updated Fas-
the orientation guide "Video transfer
monitoring by non-public bodies"
connect. The guidance will
the regulations of the BDSG, the DS-GVO
and current court decisions
thematically and practical hints
wise for examining the legal facts
give stocks. She will beyond
a large number of individual cases
included and the requirements of a
video surveillance in employment
handle.

61

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 3rd video surveillance 62nd

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 3. Video surveillance 4. Traffic
4.1 Traffic

In the field of transport is mainly after the
Introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation
tion (DS-GVO) an immense increase in the
Complaints about fine procedures
been listed. Sensitized by
the DS-GVO have not a few bur-
asked for the first time whether the
authorities against data protection regulations
lungs violated when they affected
by means of speed monitoring
record locations or if the municipal
che enforcement service for illegal parkers
License plate photographed.

The data processing of the fine
le is done for tracking purposes
and punishment of administrative offenses
in this area is not the data
tenschutz basic regulation, but the
Directive RL (EU) 2016/680 relevant,
which, unlike the GDPR, does not immediately
applicable, but only in domestic
had to be properly implemented. the
was set by the state data
Protection Act for Justice and Fines
hear (LDSG-JB) from May 15, 2019. The
State data protection law for the judiciary and
Fines regulates that particular
Federal or state legislation
country. The administrative offense
procedure is special in law
on administrative offenses (OWiG)
applies and this in turn refers to the
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In-
provided that the fine authorities and the
Employees of the regulatory office similar
powers such as law enforcement
the. You can identify a fact
and gather evidence.

As annoying as the nodules are, don't
any data acquisition that the citizen does not want

collection by the fine authorities
also a data breach. the radar
speed measurement controls
and also the photos are of illegal parkers
through the investigative principle of fines
monetary authorities covered.

4.2 Authorities rely on postcards

The driver's license office of a district office
probably sent mail for reasons of cost
cards to applicants. on this post-
cards were not just the file number
and the name of the clerk at the
driver's license office, but pre-printed
and to tick which sub-
were still available at the driving license office
to put on This ranged from medical
Certificates of Eyesight
up to other medical certificates
genes and expert opinions for granting or
Renewal of driver's licenses
the driving license regulation. handwriting
Lich could still open fees and
further notifications to the applicants
to be entered.
It was particularly piquant in the case that most
Ner authority was reported that the
Applicant handwritten on the post
card was informed that he could not as
Accompanying person for accompanied driving
be entered.

Through the open postcard, the
confidential transactions between
citizens and the administration
processed in a way that
Acknowledgment of uninvolved third parties
enabled by this procedure. With that
de the confidentiality and integrity of
particularly sensitive health
data violated. The regulations of the data
General Protection Regulation state that
only process data in the manner
tet may be the one appropriate
Security of Personal Information

63

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 4. Traffic guaranteed. This means that
measures to be taken are ahead of a
unauthorized access to the data
te protects.

It is actually obvious that
confidential information in public
return in principle in closed letters
envelopes to be sent.

My authority has not in this case
asked for an opinion, but that
District office immediately instructed that
communication of administrative processes
from now on only before the
carried out protected against third parties and
for notices to stakeholders in one
administrative procedure closed
NEN envelope to use as well as from the
Refrain from sending open postcards.

The district administrator immediately implemented this instruction
set.

4.3 Development of Artificial

Intelligence (AI) in the field
Traffic

The first data protection impact assessment
who accompanied my authority, found
lots of traffic.
An automotive supplier developed for its
ne customer algorithms for the autonomous
Drive. However, in order to train
are real driving and traffic conditions
required. Otherwise it comes to
System errors, resulting in fatal errors
of autonomous vehicles
can.

In our case, video data from Au-
tos taped out. be here
inevitably personal data
summarizes, be it people on the sidewalks
and to traffic lights, cyclists or others

Road users, as well as license plates
chen. Although an identification of the
sons or the car owner at all
is wanted, the data collection cannot
without a legal basis for the data
collection take place. The admissibility of
Data processing arises in this
special individual case from an interest
sen or fundamental rights and freedoms
prevailing over the data subject,
legitimate interests of the automobile
supplier within the meaning of Article 6 paragraph 1
Subparagraph 1 letter f GDPR.

In the balancing of interests in favor
of the automotive supplier found many
gates into account, such as
the personality relevance, the temporal
and spatial extent, an only small
authorized group of people that the
data will not be given to third parties
the as well as the technical ones used
and organizational measures. important
tig for the weighing of interests was still
that the rights of those affected are protected
den by using the recording vehicles
Camera icon and information about
are identified to those responsible.
In this way, the affected traffic
participants of their right to object
make use of on site by the Se-
can be deleted directly in the vehicle
the. The deletion of the video data is also
afterwards when specifying the place and time
possible.

The implementation of a data protection
assessment is also included in the
include food considerations.

The development and research of
new technology should not affect data protection
fail, however, is the development and
research is also not a free ticket, because
data protection principles and rights
managed to throw overboard. Will

64

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 4th traffic data protection principles, which
comply with the General Data Protection Regulation
pretends to us, heeds and they are part of the
research project and process
(Privacy by design), then this can do that
confidence of citizens in
strengthen new technology and become one
not to be underestimated competition
lead advantage.

65

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 4th traffic 66th

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 4th Traffic 5th Justice
5.1 How do notaries fulfill their data

intellectual property information
and documentation requirements?
- Control campaign

To find out how responsible
verbatim with in the basic data protection
ordinance (DS-GVO) contained information
information and documentation obligations
deal with, my department has
of an unprovoked control campaign
No in May 2019, so after almost one
year since the General Data Protection
ordinance, twenty selected at random
notaries are asked to
instruct how to fulfill their information obligations
compared to that of a data collection
Data subjects pursuant to Articles 13, 14
comply with the GDPR and on the other hand,
their record of processing activities
to be submitted in accordance with Article 30 GDPR.

Procedure of the control campaign:

The obligation to my department
requested documents on request
increase, results regarding the directory
se of processing activities from the in
Article 30 paragraph 4 GDPR expressly
mentioned obligation to submit and regarding
Data protection information according to the
Items 13, 14 GDPR from the general
Obligation to support § 26 state data
tenschutzgesetz (LDSG), which also includes notaries
obliged to cooperate.

As already mentioned, the
mentioned information and documentation
duties at the beginning of the control action
on for almost a year. Think
department is therefore assuming
gene that the notaries - the organs of
Administration of justice and carrier of a public

office are – the relevant documents
already months before the control action
created by my office, so that
them to mine without much effort
Department can send and this
due to their, my department against
over existing support and
do the obligation to submit.

In fact, fifteen of the twenty
Notaries within the of my service
set a three-week deadline or
a few days later the requested documents
submitted.

Of the five other notaries, three have
within the deadline for a deadline extension
tion requested, but only in one of these
Cases were the documents within the
submitted an extended deadline.

Two of the notaries responded to the request
tion of my office at all
reacted and had to get to work
be inner, which then in one of
both cases also took place immediately.
Even in early November, so more than
5 months after the first request
my office, despite several
liger memories recalling the
Obligation to support in two cases neither
the data protection information according to the
Articles 13 and 14 GDPR nor the
record of the processing activities
according to Article 30 GDPR and in one case
only the list of processing
activities.

Regardless of whether the delayed pre-
depended on it in the individual cases
can be traced back to the fact that the notaries
according to the General Data Protection Regulation
existing information and documentation
mentation obligations or "only" most
ner office compared to existing
No obligation to provide support or submission

67

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 5. judiciary, it is a question of
in the event of significant violations of data
protective obligations. Since against
Public bodies according to § 28 LDSG none
fines can be imposed,
against the above-described violations
data protection regulations
individual notaries as bearers of a public
chen office and judicial body
no administrative offences. There a
such behavior is not acceptable
table, I have both the Ministerial
for the judiciary and for Europe as supreme
Supervisory authority of the notaries as well as the
Chamber of Notaries Baden-Württemberg
calls for ensuring that the
Notaries in future both their information
and documentation obligations as well as the
to my office
meet the obligations.

Content control of data protection
information for data subjects in accordance with
Articles 13 and 14 GDPR:

The circumstances outlined above, that
the notaries the requested documents
late or even months after arrival
demand by my office yet
had not submitted, and thereby
resulting delay have
leads that so far only the content
Review of data protection information
ions for those affected under Article 13 and
14 DS-GVO could be carried out,
the examination of the directories of the processing
work activities that are very extensive
are, but only in the course of 2020
can be done.
The information obligations of responsible persons
Bodies pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 GDPR
GMOs that go far beyond the previous (national
nale) go beyond the legal situation, form the
Basis for exercising the data subject
property rights. Only if an affected person
son knows that personal data

68

processed through it, it can be yours
Affected rights, such as B. your information
exercise properly, also sensibly and effectively.
About what to inform those affected
are, results from the collection of personal
personal data at the concerned
Person from Article 13 DS-GVO and, if
the personal data is not included
the data subject himself but with
third parties, from Article 14
GDPR.
In both cases, if none
Exceptions apply, e.g.

• the name and contact details

the person responsible

 

• the contact details of any data
data protection officer (whereby notaries
always have to order one),

• the purposes for which the data
are to be raised or raised
have been used, as well as the legal
basis for processing,

 

• if applicable, the recipients or cate-
gories of recipients of per-
sun-related data,

 

• the planned storage period or, if
this is not possible, the criteria for
the determination of this duration and about,

• the rights of those affected (right to information,
correction, deletion, restriction
and objection rights as well
the right to data portability)

be specified.

When reviewing my office
data protection information submitted by notaries
information is mainly the following
favor:

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 5. Judiciary With some of the notaries the
submitted
Privacy Information
only on the collection of personal
gener data in connection with
accessed the notary's website. Which he-
collection of personal data
the notary as part of the actual
tar activity, i.e. in connection
with the creation of draft documents,
the certification and execution of deeds
customer transactions or implementation
of consultations by the Informati-
obligation of Articles 13 and 14 GDPR
is also recorded, was in these days
data protection information, however,
spoken.
In addition, it appears mainly to
Topic data protection officer unclear
to give. So were in several
the submitted data protection information
regarding the data protection officer
only the general e-mail address/
Telephone and fax number of the notary
ats specified, so that an immediate
re contact of a person concerned
not with the data protection officer
it is possible. The data protection officer
However, te must be contactable directly.
Therefore, in the data protection information
at least one separate, directly dem
Data Protection Officer
assigned
to provide an email address.
In some cases, as a privacy
commissioner one notary colleague in
mentioned within the same law firm.
Notaries in a law firm or a
However, ro community can not
each other as data protection officers
to name. A notary as responsible
can also not in its own right as
Appoint data protection officer. This
would lead to conflicts of interest
to lead
and could not be with the function and
Task of a data protection officer
agree (Articles 38 and 39 GDPR).
Notaries in a law firm or shared office

shank are both for the area of their
Office as well as for the economic
and organizational area responsible
literal passage. A mutual naming
tion as data protection officer
in the economic and organizational
Area cause the respective active
future data protection officer at Er-
fulfillment of its duties as data protection officer
representative for one colleague at a time
also advises or controls itself.
For example, if questions about data
processing in shared data processing
working system treats or does it work
to have an implementation in common
IT system used, a member can
of the partnership/office community not free
advised by their own concern or
check. Here are independent and
technically experienced own data protection
instructed to order.

Since the control campaign was not
plans to be completed in 2019
could, but also because of already now
identified data protection violations
my office in 2020
deal more with notaries.

5.2 Implementation of the Directive (EU)

2016/680 in the judiciary

Already in my last activity report
I mentioned that the data
basic protection regulation for criminal
che and regulatory offenses
Procedure none and also in the area of
penal system only extremely rarely
tion finds, and that for these areas
instead, Directive (EU) 2016/680
contains data protection regulations.
A guideline must - unlike our
indirectly applicable basic data protection
order – transposed by national law
are set, insofar as this is not the case
carried out by federal law, by state

69

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 5th Judicial Law.
At the state level, this implementation is for
the judicial and fine authorities in particular
by the effective date of June 6, 2019
State data protection law for the judiciary and
fine authorities and by the same
amendment of the
Correctional Code takes place.

State data protection law for the judiciary
and fine authorities (LDSG-JB)

The state data protection law for judicial
and fine authorities is applicable to
the data processing of the ordinary
courts in criminal matters, the state
administrations and also for the processing
processing of personal data for
formation of administrative offenses and for
enforcement of fines by all
responsible public authorities
of the country. Contrary to what is sometimes assumed
the law applies in the area of fines
therefore not only for data protection
che offenses, for mine
office is responsible.

The state data protection law for
tiz and fine authorities also regulates the
Jurisdiction and powers of my
Office within the scope of the
law.

About the implementation of the Directive (EU)
2016/680 but contains the law
also regulations that are not immediate
serve to implement the directive, such as
e.g. B. under what conditions
Video surveillance in prisoner demonstration
areas of courthouses
is and a provision that it is in foreign
serving judicial officials under
permitted under certain conditions
Hazardous situations Devices with a
to use hearing function.

As in my last job
area, my orders were
think about video surveillance in-
arrested persons who because of a
Prisoner transport negotiation
of the correctional facility in the demonstration
le of the court, thence to the courtroom
and have to be brought back
sen, partly already in the revised
Draft of the state data protection law
for judicial and fine authorities from July
2018 considered.

At the time of the last activity
I wasn't aware of that,
that my demand was also met
men was the one provided for in the draft
Reference to the use of video technology
nik to specify in accordance with the guidelines.
In § 5 paragraph 6 LDSG-JB it is now
correspondingly expressly to §§ 55
and 56 of the Federal Data Protection Act
referenced in which the directive
(EU) 2016/680 information
and notification requirements implemented
have been.

Against the
seen legal basis for use
a monitoring function for mobile alarm devices
advise the lawyers working in the field
tiz employees (e.g. bailiffs)
should allow, in dangerous situations
their protection by means of suitable devices
to secretly make sound recordings
I also expressed serious concerns
(cf. 34th activity report, 5.1.1).
Unfortunately, the regulation is not without replacement
been deleted. Compared to the
draft version are the admissibility requirements
requirements for the production of secret
chen sound recordings in the now applicable § 6
LDSG-JB, however, has been considerably tightened
the.

70

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 5th judiciary Since both the state data protection law
for judicial and fine authorities as well
the amendment of the prison law
books have only been valid for a few months,
can - due to the little experience,
that are currently available with these laws
– no statement made about it yet
whether the change made
implementation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 or
the adaptation to the data protection basic
regulation in practice or,
whether or in which points further changes
there is a need for change.

While provided in the initial draft
was that in the presence of a no closer
specific danger to protect the
judicial officers covert sound recording
Men made on site and sent to a
control center can be transmitted, re-
according to § 6 LDSG-JB, that judicial employees
only in the case of an urgent danger to life,
health or freedom exclusively
For your protection, audio recordings at the scene
Prepare and transmit to a control center
be able. The measure may - unlike
envisaged in the initial draft - however
only be carried out covertly
if there are indications that
the purpose of the measure would be jeopardized,
if the person concerned at the beginning
or in the course of the measure above in-
would be formed.

Amendment of the Correctional Act-
book

The judiciary is carried out for the purposes of
Enforcement and/or Protection
against and averting dangers to the
public safety. In this way it serves
to which Directive (EU) 2016/680
applies. Especially about this one
Implementing it in prison was one
Amendment of the Correctional Code
necessary. Sometimes one processes
prison but also to other
other purposes personal data.
In these rare cases, the da-
General Data Protection Regulation application,
why that
Correctional Code
also to the General Data Protection Regulation
had to be adjusted.
The amendment to the Correctional Act
buchs is also - like the country
of the data protection law for judiciary and penitentiary
monetary authorities - effective June 6, 2019
kicked.

71

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 5th Justice 72nd

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 5. Justice 6. Municipal affairs
6.1 The “List of Conspicuous Ones”

Through corresponding press reports
tion, we became aware that
the city of Tübingen "creative" ways in
dealing with migrants. These were
namely, if the city hears
comes that people from this group
pe get in trouble with the law, in
a so-called "list of the conspicuous"
recorded and stored. who on the list
te stands, must expect the more frequent
having to change accommodation and at
Contacts with authorities under special
attention to stand.

In order to be able to check whether this particular
re form of data processing the data
fulfills the legal protection requirements,
we turned to a detailed
Questionnaire for the city. their position
ment was anything but gratifying
enough Not only were some wrong
Legal bases stated. As far as
appropriate to the regulation of the state
tenschutzgesetzes (LDSG) regarding the
Data processing for other purposes
(§ 5 LDSG) was referred to, this
se misrepresented and regarding
of their application requirements
aptly rated. What the facts
te is concerned for inclusion in the list
lead remained unclear what the city about
under “Hazard reports” or “Incidents
with risk potential” understands exactly.
When asked where the data came from,
it said: “It is exclusively about
Information available to the administration
gene". At one point it was stated
that disclosure of information
from the list no successes, at other
It says that the integration
nagement in the accommodations
will. On the question of whether those affected

been informed of their data protection rights
the city referred to alleged
restrictions on the right to information
"according to Art. 15, paragraph 1 lit. c) and e) [DS-
GMO]”, which does not exist at all. One
according to Article 35 paragraph 3 letter b of
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
mandatory before creating the file
required data protection impact assessment
tion was only promised.
The supposedly existing entry in the
List of processing activities
was given to us to this day, despite being asked to do so
not submitted.

In another letter we asked
the city to rely on a legal basis
to be determined and the existence of
to prove suspensions. from ours
View came at most § 5 paragraph 1 number
2 2. Alternative LDSG under consideration, after which
personal data belonging to a
specific administrative purpose
were, deviating from this, also used
may be used if this is “for defence
a serious impairment
the rights and freedoms of another
person is required". The city did
claims that the migrants included in the list
posed a danger to employees
the city. Our question went
whether there are concrete indications
for admitting that the listed persons
towards city officials ever
had become noticeable. in her answer
the city did not respond to this and
referred only to statistical surveys
genes about the probability of recurrence
in violent crimes. On our other
Questions, however, were no longer
gone After we compared that
Lord Mayor complained and on the
legal obligation of the city
had to support us in our work
zen, we received surprising news-
a letter from the mayor

73

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 6th municipal to the interior minister of the country in which
he complained verbosely about us: We
would always ask more questions
don't be for the professionals in his house
more recognizable what answers we
expected what we wanted to be legal
not permitted and not dependent on the effort
Afford. We were imputed by
the city's approach to
compliance with data protection regulations
check fonts and thus our
comply with legal mandate
we endanger city employees.

This is absurd. Rather, it is true
that to this day because of the uncooperative
ven behavior of the city incapable
are to determine specifically whether what
going on there, is legal, or the city
to be available for advice,
for lawful data processing
to make possible.

The city's attitude of denial is
not only incomprehensible, she also gives us
Reason to take further measures
according to the basic data protection
order are available. The thing
may need some clarification.

6.2 Community Network

privacy

It was celebrating its tenth anniversary
Municipal Network Privacy at the
Administrative College Kehl. The network-
werk is a nationwide collaboration
closure of municipal official data
protection officer who has been since
2009 twice a year for a conference
meet at college.

In the beginning there were only about 20 people,
there are already more than 120 members.
They come from smaller communities

74

den as well as from big cities, rural
council offices and independent authorities
such as a port administration.
Although experts in data protection have
always new data protection problems
learn and questions. They discuss these
next in a specialist group, try
chen these to solve before you contact the
LfDI turn. "Old hands" with years of experience
Practical experience can thus newcomers
help and get into the difficult
facilitate matter.

There are also working groups
at the municipal umbrella organizations.
But overarching practices meet
women and practitioners only in this
ler network. Especially the experience
exchange regardless of the size of the
Authority is very profitable.
Such a network can also serve as a model
for other organizations and
associations (clubs, schools).

Important element of networking
is the one created by the conferences-
de personal contact. That's how they swap
the members permanently via an intra-
net portal of the network. On the-
sem will be specifically information for
municipal data protection officer
in
Baden-Württemberg held ready. the
Documents come from the members
and can be uploaded by them
become the

The LfDI supports to the best of its ability
the work of this network. He gives the
Possibility of selected questions in the
circles of conference participants not
could be answered, at the LfDI
suffice. As far as possible for the LfDI
was, his authority also sent reference
and speakers at the conferences.

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 6. Municipal carrier of the network is the Kehler Aka-
demie e.V., one of the two training and
educational institutions of the university
throat.

75

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 6th municipal 76th

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 6. Municipal 7. Health and social affairs
7.1 Caution when shipping

emails

In addition to the legal question of whether e-mails
with personal data – if the
data subject has consented to this -
may be sent unencrypted,
care must be taken when shipping
of e-mails special care
is brought.

My department had
period with several complaints in
related to the delivery of
to receive e-mails from social service providers
grasp.

In one case, a job center had
on a case-by-case basis – upon express request
a benefit recipient due to the
Urgency of his matter - one
Notification via (unencrypted) e-mail
want to send to the service recipient.
Because of that email addresses
are often underlined
was made by the employee of the Jobcentre
ters an underscore in the email address
not recognized and the e-mail address
by misspelling. This "wrong"
E-mail address existed, so that a (un-
well-known) namesake of the performance
recipient received the e-mail together with the decision.
The authority concerned has the expertise
taken as an opportunity to
to issue the “Privacy Policy” directive and the
employees on the subject of "e-mailing".
inform to raise awareness of the
improve data protection.

In another case, an employee
of a youth welfare office by e-mail via
change of responsibility within
informed by a department. Unfortunately wrote
he indicates all recipients as "open" instead of this one

to put in "Bcc". So all recipients could
recognize who else received the e-mail
hold and thus also who had contact
to the youth welfare office.
Here, too, the authority concerned has
the consequence the employees regarding the
topic sensitized.

A third case was about that
a youth welfare office sent a message by email
to a parent and for information
a youth commissioned by the youth welfare office
gendhilfeträger had sent. So became
the commissioned youth welfare agency
Email address of parent known –
the parent had not consented to this
lit.

So quick and easy to send an email
is, this uncomplicatedness also
know risks. Therefore, when shipping
emails due diligence. through
E-mails can be encrypted, e.g. B.
in the case of the job center, can be prevented
that third parties
can be.

7.2 Privacy in the outpatient

and inpatient care

Home care

In the reporting period we were with the
Question concerned to what extent within the framework of
home nursing for billing
a complex wound care
sible health data such as photos of the
caring for the wound to the health
se may be transmitted. Furthermore was
to clarify whether this data is solely from so-called
"wound managers" of the health insurance
may be scored without the medical
nical health insurance service (MDK)
turn on.

77

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7. Health and social affairs Home nursing according to § 37 des
Fifth Book of the Social Code (SGB
V) includes the individual
che basic care, treatment care and
Domestic supply. on medical
among other things, the wound care
tion as treatment care by a
performed outpatient care.
The nursing service calculates the
th services then within the framework
of the contractual agreements with the
the patient's health insurance.

When it comes to wound care, however
between a regular supply to
distinguish that an average
Lich requires a lot of effort, and one
complex care that requires a time
requires intensive effort. for one
so-called "complicated wound care".
the contractual agreements with
health insurance company offers a higher reimbursement.
Accordingly, the billing
ment of this more complex service as well
a meaningful proof.

As a contractual billing basis
for the higher remuneration of a
tive wound treatment has been used up to now
concrete between health insurance and
the nursing associations
application form. This form saw i.a.
provided that an "extraordinary
vigorous representation of the elaborate
wound care as part of a
appropriate wound management”.
becomes. This has been reported by some outpatient
ten care services understood that
them along with the application form
at the health insurance as proof of a
complex wound treatment
submit extensive documents
would have to typically the care
served in addition to wound findings, wound
also log photos of the wound. For
the transmission of the "necessary

lay” the application form provided that
the nursing service from the insured
obtaining consent. The care
dienst evaluates the documents sent
Health insurance then usually with the help
by her employees, specially
trained, so-called "wound managers". One
Forwarding to the medical service
the health insurance (MDK) finds only
as an exception.

In this regard, hired us
providers of outpatient care the question
whether this procedure complies with data protection law
be permissible.
We then discussed the process
the relevant health insurance company. Our
examination led to the following essential
technical data protection considerations:
It is doubtful whether the
de Collection of social data at all
in the form of a declaration of consent
can be justified. The regulations
of § 284 SGB V regulate conclusively, in
which cases the health insurance
is required to collect social data. one over-
Going beyond data processing
the basis of consent is
against - what the national legislation
In accordance with Article 9 paragraph 2 letter
a) and paragraph 4 of the basic data protection
ordinance (DS-GVO) for special cases
categories of personal data, in particular
special for health data
can - excluded. However,
the provisions in § 284 paragraph 1
Sentence 1 number 4 and number 8 SGB V
the collection of social data insofar as
than this to check the obligation to perform
the health insurance company or for billing
with the service providers is required
is. In the case of billing of a
walled wound care requires the
Health insurance company the additional data to
determine whether instead of a regular deed
a costly wound care

78

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7. Health and social affairs was required and was carried out
with the consequence that she is the nursing service
to pay a corresponding
correspondingly higher remuneration
tet would be. The obligation to reimburse
usually results from claims
stipulations, the reason and the
amount must be available. The question in
what amount the health insurance company pays
is obliged to pay a surcharge
therefore from the authorization norms of § 284
Paragraph 1 sentence 1 number 4 and number 8
SGB V includes the provisions of
General Data Protection Regulation as a specific
cal member state provisions
pursuant to Article 6 paragraph 1 letter e) and
Paragraph 3 sentence 3 DS-GVO and according to Ar-
article 9 paragraph 2 letter h) and paragraph 4
Specify GDPR.
Furthermore, we presented to the
Health insurance regarding the scope of
data collected clear that the survey
of purely medical data to determine
ment, whether complex wound care
is present, at least not with the permission
offense of § 284 paragraph 1 number
Mer 4 and number 8 SGB V justified
could become.

In the course of our examination, it turned out that
the health insurance company if an application for
determination of a complex wound
is provided, to whose belief
liability exclusively nursing
Information on wound care awaits
would. These are statements like that
Number and extent of the wounds, the
Time required for changing the wound dressing
sel, cleaning and disinfection as well
the implementation of the wound dressing. kei
If not, she would
require information from the nursing service,
within the framework of home health
care only from the prescribing doctor or in
to assess difficult cases by the MDK
be.

Because of this, we had the
checkout abandoned in the used
Application form to clarify that they
as further information only the nursing
technical aspects of wound care
performance appraisal required, not
against further meaningful documents
about medical aspects. In addition,
we the health insurance company our opinion
sung that they have this additional information
not on the basis of consent, but
on the basis of §§ 284 paragraph 1
Number 4 and number 8 SGB V in conjunction with
Article 6 paragraph 1 letter e), paragraph 3
Sentence 3, Article 9 paragraph 2 letter h),
Paragraph 4 DS-GVO can raise.

The health insurance has on our instructions
the application form, the subject of
re contracts with the nursing associations,
in coordination with their contractual partners
changed.
The form now says-
special - which we expressly welcome
ßen – to clearly state that:

• the health insurance company to check whether a
complex wound care required
lich, no additional documents
in the form of wound protocols or even
Photos of the wound needed and that
• the health insurance under "significant
ge representation of the complex wound
supply as part of a
according to wound management” information
to the number of wounds whose
stretch, the time required and care
technical aspects such as cleaning,
infection and the implementation of
wound dressing expected.

However, contrary to the announcement
of the health insurance company on the
ten customized form still
obtaining a declaration of consent
intended. This will be the subject of further

79

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7th health and social affairs.

The procedure of the health insurance company that
basically with
her employee so-called
“Wound managers” check whether dem
Nursing service a higher remuneration for
require complex wound care
and only in exceptional cases the MDK with a
commissioned with an appraisal
Incidentally, no cause for criticism: One
Health insurance is according to § 275 paragraph 1 SGB
V although obliged in certain cases
an expert opinion of the MDK
to catch up However, it follows from this
not that they are part of the exam
question whether complex wound care
ment is required, always such a
order an opinion
would have to. The health insurance has rather
a margin of appreciation that it her
allowed the participation of the MDK on the
to limit exceptional cases in which
difficult medical questions
and the examination in
easy to carry out cases
men.

request for personnel lists
the home supervisors

An association that also represents the interests of
care facilities, has us in the
Reporting period asked the practice of
Baden-Württemberg Home Supervision
authorities to check, after which these
from the inpatient care facilities
as part of their auditing work lists of
the nursing staff working there
request their real name and qualification
other In this connection it was questionable
also hang whether the home supervisors
this kind of personnel lists not only in the
Annual or event-related
gene quality tests, but also
as part of the semi-annual
may request so-called change notifications.

80

The home supervisors have after the
Provision of § 10 of the Baden-Württemberg
German Housing, Participation and Care Act
(WTPG) including the task, the personal
and technical suitability of the in a static
onary care facility employees
to check. In order to
to be allowed to operate the facility
the operator of the facility ensure
that the number of employees and their
personal and professional suitability for the
activity to be performed by them is sufficient
(cf. § 10 paragraph 3 number 3 WTPG). So-
far this is not guaranteed, have the
Home regulators to the statutory
Order, appropriate measures after
Housing, Participation and Care Act to be
take effect, e.g. a ban on employment
pronounce

That for the home supervisory authorities
permanent Ministry of Social Affairs and
integration presented us conclusively
and convincingly show that for the tasks
compliance with home regulators
Personnel lists are required, which are not
only the initials of the employees, but
then the clear names and the qualification
of employees included. the home
supervisory authorities would have to
fung whether an inpatient facility
Requirements of the housing, participation and care
fulfilled the law, also the provision of § 4
Paragraph 1 of the State Personnel Ordinance
include. Thereafter, persons
who are in an inpatient facility
are busy, there are no facts,
which justify the assumption that they
for the activities they carry out
are personally unsuitable. Not suitable
is, in particular, who because of (in the country
despersonalverordnung described in more detail
bener) criminal offenses have been finally convicted
has been.

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7. Health and social affairs The home supervisory authorities receive over
the so-called notifications in criminal matters of the
judge or public prosecutors knowledge
about criminal convictions that the
personal suitability of employees
ner inpatient facility in question
(cf. § 13 paragraph 2 sentence 1, § 14 paragraph 1
Number 5 of the Introductory Act to
Judicial Constitution Act and No
28 of the order of the Federal Minister
about the judiciary and for consumer protection
and the state justice administrations
the communications in criminal matters of 27.
March 2019) excludes. These communications
the home supervisory authorities
then with the available personnel lists
and then take action if necessary
the necessary measures. lay the
Home supervisory authorities, however, do not
lists of the individual institutions
Clear names before, so would be an assignment
of the messages to the individual
ments or facilities not possible. Us
moreover, plausible
laid that home supervisors
an equally suitable and milder means,
to the monitoring obligations from the
Housing, Participation and Care Act according to
come, is not available.

So far, the question of whether
the Baden-Württemberg home shows
supervisory authorities are entitled to
nallists from the facilities not only
as part of the annual or
quality check according to § 17 WTPG
to request, but also within the framework of
Change notifications according to § 11 paragraph 3
WTPG representing the Ministry of Social Affairs
and integration according to its orientation
assistance for the home supervisory authorities in Ba-
den-Württemberg at least every six months
expected. In this regard, agreed
the Ministry of Social Affairs and Integration
on with the home supervisory authorities,
that these within the framework of the

show according to § 11 paragraph 3 WTPG for the time being
– that means in any case up to a possibly
speaking legal clarification in the
Housing, Participation and Care Act – none
Personnel lists with names and qualifications
on of the employees would request.

7.3 The information obligation in the case
the collection of personal
ner data at the affected
person through social security
eng: The innovations of the GDPR

The data protection law
information
on duties form the basis for the
Exercising the rights of data subjects (in particular
in particular Article 15 et seq. of the data
General Protection Regulation [GDPR]). Only
if the data subject knows that
process personal data about them
be processed, it can exercise these rights as well
exercise Or as the recital
60 of the General Data Protection Regulation
mulated: The principles of a fair and
transparent processing make it
required that the data subject via
the existence of the processing operation
and its purpose is taught. in the
Area of social law count about it
information, advice and
come anyway to the basic obligations of
Service providers (cf. §§ 13-15 of the first
Book of the Social Security Code [SGB I]).
Fulfillment of data protection regulations
Information obligations through social
therefore comes an important
importance to.

Even before the General Data Protection
regulation there were information obligations
the social service provider: It used to be
however sufficient if they have the
Purposes of the collection,
processing or use, the identity of
responsible body and, if necessary, via category

81

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7. Health and social gories of recipients informed; on-
otherwise it was only to be pointed out that
whether the person concerned is obliged to provide information
tet, the provision of information requires
for the granting of legal
share or the information is voluntary (cf. §
67a paragraph 3 of the Tenth Book of the
zialgesetzbuch [SGB X] in the up to 24.
May 2018 valid version). The one in the
regulated by the General Data Protection Regulation
Information obligations are essential
beyond the previous legal situation.

With Article 23 GDPR, the data
General Protection Regulation, however, too
opens up the possibility through legislation
exercise measures – to a certain extent
– Restrictions on the obligation to provide information
to undertake. From this possibility
has the federal legislator for the
rich use of social data protection
made, namely with the regulations of
§ 82 SGB X in relation to the information
obligation in the case of the collection of personal
personal data at the concerned
Person (Article 13 DS-GVO) and with § 82a
SGB X in relation to the information obligation
in the event that the personal
Data not obtained from the data subject
be lifted (Article 14 GDPR).

Not only the welfare agencies had
with the presented legal
to deal with innovations, also for mine
office was in the area of social
data protection, the topic of information
tion obligations (especially in the case of
Collection of personal data
at the data subject [Article 13 DS-
GMO]) since the General Data Protection
regulation a focus:

My office had several
difficulties regarding the fulfillment of
processing obligation to inform. The
So ma will definitely be in public

perceived. With the complaints
it was primarily about the fact that the
answer no information at all
had created.

In addition, the topic was one of the
Main points of two of my service
place checks carried out at a
social welfare office and at a pension office.

Dealing with the information obligation
ten showed that the creation more correct
and at the same time for the person concerned
understandable information not quite
is easy.

Because of the knowledge gained
my office therefore has the contribution
"Particularities of the information obligation
according to Article 13 of the General Data Protection
regulations for social service providers"
to those responsible for the creation
to make the information a little easier.
The article is on the website
available from an office.

On some details of the information
obligation according to Article 13 DS-GVO should
to be discussed briefly:

Article 13 paragraph 1 letter a GDPR
GMO: notification of the name and the
Contact details of the person responsible
and, if applicable, his representative
ter
 
It is the person responsible
not about the (entire) city or
District or - as partly in the of
information checked by me
was - to the (official) data
protection officer. Who Responsible
is initially in Article 4 No. 7 GDPR
defined by law. For the area of
There is also social data protection
a special provision in § 67 paragraph 4

82

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 7th Health and Social Affairs SGB X: After that is in the processing
of social data by a service provider
responsible for the service providers
(cf. § 67 Paragraph 4 Clause 1 SGB X). Important
is the regulation of § 67 paragraph 4
Sentence 2 SGB X:

costume. During our exams,
that only the "old tried and tested" regulations
were mentioned in the social code,
while the "new" regulations of the
General Tenant Protection Ordinance "forgotten"
became.

"Is the service provider a regional authority
perschaft, the responsible persons are the
Organizational units that have a task
after one of the special parts of this
carry out the Code functionally."

This can be, for example, the job center (for
the area of the second book of the social
statute) or the housing benefit office (for
the area of the Housing Allowance Act).

With the according to Article 13 paragraph 1
stabe a DS-GVO to be named representative
Incidentally, he is not the head of the
job centers or the head of the housing benefit
body meant, but the representative in the
Within the meaning of Article 4 No. 17 GDPR. This
is a company established in the Union
natural or legal person pursuant to
Article 27 GDPR was ordered. arti
kel 27 DS-GVO provides that a not in
responsible person based in the Union
cher or processor if necessary
Representatives in the Union as contact persons
names. This rule should therefore
the processing of social data
public bodies have no meaning.

Article 13 paragraph 1 letter c GDPR
GMO: Communication of the purposes for which
the personal data
are to be worked, as well as the
Legal basis for processing

As the legal basis for processing
occurs with social service providers in particular
special Article 6 paragraph 1 letter e
and Paragraph 3 DS-GVO in connection with
Provisions of national law in

Furthermore, it is important at this point
tig, the regulations in national law
(e.g. in SGB X) as precisely as possible
admit. Now there are cases where it
is not possible, in an understandable way
all legal bases in one overall
to provide information. Then you can
by way of example with the information
Article 13 DS-GVO a more general citation
wise suffice with a reference to the
Specification of the exact bases in the
forms, e.g. B. in the following way:

"Data processing by the social
office relies in particular on Article 6
Paragraph 1 letter e and paragraph 3 DS-
GMO i. V. m. §§ 67 ff. SGB X as well as on
special legal regulations. The exact
The legal bases can be found in the
individual forms.”

In the individual forms are then the
appropriate legal norms
to name.

Article 13 paragraph 1 letter e GDPR
GMO: If applicable, notification of
Recipients or the categories of
Recipients of personal data
ten

Who is the recipient is in Article 4 No. 9
DS-GVO defined by law. After that is
the notion of "recipient" broader than that
of the "third party" (Article 4 No. 10 GDPR).
In particular, the order processing
beiter "recipient" and therefore to be specified.

83

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7. Health and social issues This information also includes the
(on the opening clause in Article 23 DS-
GMO-based) special regulations
in
§ 82 paragraph 1 SGB X to be observed.

Article 13 paragraph 2 letters b and c
GDPR

Here it is recommended to always use the
applicable article of the General Data Protection
ordinance (e.g. when
right of future
person
Article 15 GDPR), so that the affected
ne person if interested even more details
can read.

affected

the

Article 13 paragraph 2 letter e:
whether the provision of personal
personal data by law
or contractually required or
required for the conclusion of a contract
is whether the person concerned
tet is the personal data
provide, and which possible
Consequences of non-provision would have

The regulation corresponds to that of
§ 67a paragraph 3 sentence 3 SGB X in the up to
24 May 2018 version applicable.

As part of our consulting work
we were also on a special
Clarification needs of the service providers in the
field of child and youth welfare
with regard to the extent of their information
made aware of their obligations. here
seemed questionable to them whether § 62
clause 2 clause 2 of the eighth book of the
cial Code (SGB VIII) their information
tion obligations conclusively regulates or whether
the further regulation in Article 13
DS-GVO takes precedence over national regulations.
The regulation in § 62 paragraph 2 SGB VIII
reads:
"Social data can be obtained from the person concerned
to lift. He is on the legal basis of

84

Collection and the intended purpose
the collection and use
to the extent that these are not obvious."
The regulation has not been changed
den, although the Eighth Book of the Soci-
al code since the validity of the data
basic protection regulation and even more so
since it was issued, several changes
experienced. In particular sees
which has meanwhile been approved by the Bundestag and
second law passed by the council
Adaptation of data protection law to the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and for
implementation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 (in
Article 129; Draft law: Bundestag printed paper 19/4674,
p. 1 ff.) only editorial changes
of § 62 paragraph 2 SGB VIII. demge
on the other hand, Article 24 of the Law
process to change the federal pension
law and other laws of July 17
2017 (BGBl. I 2541, 2558) before the
Entry into force of the data protection principle
ordinance applicable general provisions
ment in § 67a paragraph 3 SGB X a. F. (p.
to her already above) on the obligation to provide information
in the case of the collection of social data
Affected with the justification (see
recommendation and report of the
Committee for Labor and Social Affairs, BT-Drs.
18/12611, p. 102 f.) repealed that
the content of the regulation there in the future
Art. 13 GDPR applies directly. This
You could legislate to that effect
understand that the legislature by having
§ 62 paragraph 2 sentence 2 SGB VIII despite the
other changes made
has maintained the
application of Article 13 GDPR, for example
Look at the opening clause in Article 23
DS-GVO wanted to exclude.

In particular with regard to the changes
62 SGB X through the second da-
data protection adjustment and implementation
However, neither the wording of the EU law
the amended regulation nor the

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7. Health and social affairs regulated information obligations of the
high performers go a long way
ly about the requirements of the early
legal situation. This is the
Creation of correct and at the same time for
the data subject understandable
formations not easy. also is
the competition of regulations of the
zialgesetzbuchs with the regulations of
General Data Protection Regulation
at times
difficult to solve. is particularly important
In my opinion, in any case, one if possible
precise indication of the legal basis for
the data processing so that the data subject
understand fene at least to some extent
can whether the data processing by the
social service provider is legal.

Founding of the draft law (BT-Drs.
19/4674, p. 397) such a statutory
objective, the information requirements
from Article 13 DS-GVO to restrict
remove. Rather, it should be with the
Changes to § 62 paragraph 2 SGB VIII
according to the explanatory memorandum
to an editorial adjustment “to the
Definitions from Article 4 of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. To-
immediately adds the second data protection adjustment
and Implementation Act EU (by
Art. 129 no. 5 letter a bb) in § 68 paragraph
Clause 1 SGB VIII expressly a passage
a, according to which the information requirements
according to Articles 13 and 14 GDPR in the case
the data collection by assistance,
Official guardianship or official guardianship
should only apply to a limited extent, where
expressly in the explanatory memorandum
on the requirements of the opening
clause in Art. 23 GDPR for this case
constellation is received (BT-Drs.
19/4674, p. 398 f.). From this one can
reverse conclusion that the law
Generally also in the area of
Eighth Book of the Social Code of
the validity of the information obligations
General Data Protection Regulation.
In any case, there are doubts that a general
my exclusion of the information obligation
according to Article 13 GDPR by the current
Version of § 62 paragraph 2 sentence 2 SGB VIII
the requirements of Article 23 GDPR
to a permissible restriction
chen, so that's why not
by a corresponding will of the
legislator can be assumed.

Fulfillment of data protection regulations
Information requirements comes in the area
of social law is of great importance
to. The question of sufficient data protection
legal information is quite here
object of public perception.
Those in the General Data Protection Regulation

85

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 7th Health and Social Affairs 86th

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 7. Health and social affairs 8. Schools and universities
8.1 Terms of Use for the

information technology in one
school

Telecommunications secrecy versus school law.
Can a school save which pupil
who visited which website? Around
Here to avoid pitfalls should be
every school care about this issue.

I was asked whether a shoe
le may save which student or
which student is accessing which website
is looking for, so whether the Internet use
relevant traffic data (also "connection
referred to as “deployment data”) are stored
allowed to.

If a school within the meaning of the telecom
Communications Act (TKG) service
bidder, it must do so under Section 88 TKG
Telecommunications secrecy in accordance with Article 10
sentence 1 of the Basic Law. Included
it should be noted that a violation of
Telecommunications secrecy in accordance with Section 206 of the
Penal Code (in the more detailed
written forms of inspection) with a
punishable by imprisonment of up to 5 years
can be. Telecommunications secrecy
subject to the content of the telecommunications
tion and its circumstances; added
hear in particular already the fact whether
someone at a telecom
gang is or was involved. the telecommunications
secret is already at each save
affected by traffic data, in particular
so when storing the information, who
when visited which website
or – if the school teaches the students too
E-mail addresses – who assigns one to whom
wrote email.

It can be assumed that a
le then to the service provider within the meaning of
Telecommunications Act will, if
they use the private internet or e-mail
information about the school
technology allowed or tolerated. For this is sufficient
it already if they have internet access
makes the private
te use is not expressly prohibited.
At least that's how it works
partly business-like at the inheritance
provision of telecommunications services
With. For a businesslike delivery
of telecommunications services is namely
according to the Telecommunications Act
no profit necessary, otherwise
because a sustainable offer is sufficient
of telecommunications for third parties (cf. § 3
number 6 and 10 TKG).

Does a school grant the private use
or are there no explicit regulations
If this is the case at the school, the
School maintain telecommunications secrecy
and must not, in principle,
save data. Such saves
may only be carried out to the extent
when they are exceptionally exempt from §§ 96 et seq.
TKG to be approved, for example because they are part of the
development or to maintain the
lekommunikation, for payroll accounting
or to eliminate faults
are required. Are these particular
whose purposes exceptionally connect
ment data stored, may after
data protection purpose limitation
principle (Article 5(1)(b))
DS-GVO) in this data as well
can only be viewed to the extent that
than this for the pursuit of precisely these purposes
cke is required.

Now, however, the teachers are following suit
Section 38 paragraph 6 of the Schools Act Ba-
den-Württemberg (SchG) the immediate
pedagogical responsibility for the

87

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 8th school and colleges education of the students. The school-
management in turn directs and manages
§ 41 SchG the school and is subject to instructions
right towards the teachers. Out of
these responsibilities can
founded individual cases (from §§ 96 ff.
TKG not covered) educational needs
for checking communication data
arise, e.g. who when which in-
ternet site visited.

However, the school cannot meet this need
comply if they comply with the telecommunications
subject to mystery; the obligation to
Compliance with telecommunications secrecy
then rather meets the requirements
of the School Act to the school.

This dilemma between educational
Responsibility and Telecommunications Secrecy
can be dissolved if the school fails
as a service provider within the meaning of the telecom
munikationsgesetzes occurs and thus
no longer comply with telecommunications secrecy
§ 88 TKG is subject. Once school
explicitly give the students private communi-
nication is prohibited (and neither is this
tolerated), it is no longer available as a service
bidder within the meaning of the telecommunications
look at the law. As a result, allowed
the students the information
technology of the school only in the framework
use for school purposes.
For implementation towards the students
ers and students is a usage
tion required by the school, which the
private use prohibited. The
School to fall back on § 23 paragraph 2 SchG
fen and a corresponding school regulation
enacted, in which further
can be counted.

To the teachers (and others
school staff) applies with regard to
of telecommunications secrecy, by the way -
same: As soon as they are granted private use

believes or it is tolerated, is subject to the
School of telecommunications secrecy with the
consequences described above. For teachers
employees and other servants can
especially the use of information technology
not on the basis of § 23 paragraph 2
SchG are regulated; find this norm
as a general clause only for measures in
Area of "educational tasks"
and thus only in relation to students
Application. A prohibition of private
ten use towards teachers
however, by way of service instructions
take place. However, if the service
be permitted for private use,
without the school on the basis of §§ 96
ff. TKG permitted processing of the
binding data should be limited, so
it is advisable to have an appropriate
Service agreement with the staff council
hold true. It can regulate
the fact that a teacher
school technology can also be used privately,
if she assures in writing, with the
Storage of the connection data
to be understood. That would have to be settled
further, when in individual cases to which
previously defined purposes an insight
by whom in which stored connections
tion and inventory data under which
further conditions should be allowed.

Even if a storage of
Connection data (e.g. due to
end of private use in the user
regulation) is generally permitted,
are in the specific processing of
data further data protection
to comply with requirements. This is the information
Notification according to Art. 13 or 14 DS-
GMOs to consider. In addition, the
maximum storage time at the required
to the amount associated with the storage
be purpose oriented. Access to
the data may only be as small as possible
holding group of people whose

88

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 8. Schools and universities require access to achieve the purpose
relevant (e.g. school management and administrator
nesters). Access may only be
attention to data economy both in
factual (which data types?) as well
in terms of time (will be used throughout
“History” researched or just regarding
a certain "criminal period"?)
gen. The secret access is only allowed
then take place if with the open
the intended purpose was not achieved
can be; becomes the secret access
made from this point of view
men, usually has an afterthought
Notification to be made as soon as this
is possible without defeating the purpose.

A usage regulation for the information
on technique is a must in a school,
to solve the dilemma between telecommunications
mystery and educational responsibility
to dissolve the school.

8.2 Revision of the brochure

"Privacy in childcare
directions” with regard to the
General Data Protection Regulation

“Data protection is fundamental rights protection. There-
Tenant protection is child protection.” That's what it says
Slogan in the foreword of the Ministry of Education
published around Baden-Württemberg
Brochure “Data protection in day-care
facilities". The Kultusmi-
nisterium together with us and the
including for Baden-Württemberg
Responsible regional manager for
the data protection of the Evangelical Church
in Germany with regard to the new
provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation
updated.

With regard to the processing of personal
data obtained from day-care centers
our office continuously receives numerous

any requests for advice and complaints.
From this it is already clear that in
considerable uncertainties in this area
certainties in relation to the requirements
of data protection. In order to
The Ministry of Culture had to act against it
already in 2012 together with free
supporting associations, the church data
protection officer and my department
le a much-requested brochure "Da-
protection
in day-care centers”
published, last in the third edition
in 2015 (for the first edition see already
the 31st activity report of my service
stelle 2012/2013, No. 8.1.1, p. 115).

The changes that the data
brought with it the General Protection Regulation
also have an effect in the area of children
the day care centers. emphasized at the same time
the General Data Protection Regulation to many
bodies that require special protection
ability of children with regard to
data protection (see, for example, the recitals
38 and 75 and Art. 6 paragraph 1 letter f)
last clause DS-GVO). Therefore appeared
it commanded the brochure with regard to
the innovations of the data protection basic
to revise the regulation again.

The new version of the brochure retains the
proven structure in information for
Parents, information for educators
and educators as well as information for the
Providers of day-care centers
but in each case on the new legal basis
gene a.
In the new edition, the
Parents, as before, especially about theirs
Data protection rights towards children
daycare clarified:

• What personal data is allowed
raise the day care center and
when does she need consent?

89

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 8th School and Universities • When

have to

this

Data

be deleted again?

 

• What right to information about
the data of the children have the parents?

In addition, the brochure contains
training for educators
come to support their work in the
day care centers. treated
the u. the practical questions, what
in the admission or care contract
may be asked how with observation
forms and the education and
development documentation, sound and video
handle records as well as photos
is under what circumstances lists with
the contact details of the children or theirs
Parents are created and published
may and which personal
Data between day care centers
and school exchanged or at authorities
passed on to or other third parties
that may. Were newly inserted in this respect
Comments on the special categories
ria of personal data and to the
Obligations to report data breaches.

The information section for the
Daycare providers includes how
previous comments on what was recorded
me or caregiver contract
must be taken and how the carrier dem
Parents' right to information about stored
data can follow. New
Explanatory notes have been included
List of processing activities
and data protection impact assessment.

Should be particularly useful in practice
the revised templates for consent
gen (for posting, for forwarding and
for publication of photos, for publication
disclosure of other personal information
data, for the collection of data for
and development documentation

as well as to audio and video recordings)
be. With regard to the obligation to
in particular from Article 13 paragraph 2
and Article 14 paragraph 2 DS-GVO
day-care centers also a newly
worked sample leaflet for information
about rights under the General Data Protection
regulation provided.

The brochure is electronic and in pa-
pierform via the pages “Kindergartens
and other day-care centers in Baden-Württemberg"
available from the Ministry of Education.

Data protection and pedagogy complement each other.
Both in data protection and in the
pedagogy stand for the dignity of
according to Article 1 of our Basic Law
(GG) and the free development of the
personality according to Article 2 GG in the center.
Therefore supports the newly released
Brochure the day care centers
and the educators at
data protection and thus also offers set-up
stuff for the pedagogical work with the
Child.

8.3 Revision of the administrative
regulation on data protection
through in public schools
the ministry of culture
Baden-Württemberg and their
implementation

After the country the country data
protection law to the basic data protection
regulation, could do that
Ministry of Education the administrative
writing about data protection to public
rework schools. According to § 26
Paragraph 2 of the LDSG, the Ministry of Education
rium involved in good time. While
I the revision of the administrative
regulation and the inclusion of my
Office of the Ministry of Education

90

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 8th school and colleges basically welcome, are from my
Nevertheless, there are still significant deficits
in the implementation of the administrative regulation
and especially in the scope of the
Schools to comply with data protection
legal requirements available
determine resources provided.

With the enactment of an administrative regulation
about data protection to public
Schools (hereinafter: VwV) supported
the Ministry of Education the schools by
it the data protection regulations in
Reference to public schools specified
and thereby standardized their actions
as well as simplified. Most recently, the
Ministry of Education the administrative regulation
effective January 1, 2015
(cf. the 32nd activity report
2014/2015 of my office, No. 8.1 /
p. 141 f.). The entry into force of the
basic protection regulation and in its
Follow the new version of the country data
protection law brought the necessary
of a revision of the administration
regulation with itself.

That's the Ministry of Culture with that
Decree of the 4 July 2019 new
administrative regulation, in which
sen draft it me properly
has integrated, complied. Of the
The need for change was considerable; only 
as an example, significant new
enumerated:

• The explanations about
the information obligation in the data
survey (number 1.2 VwV). A
Most of the master data is already
upon admission of the students
students raised. The newly created
ne Annex 2 to the administrative regulation
gives the schools the template for this
a school admission sheet to the
Hand to which the schools refer

Number 2.2.1 (penultimate sentence) to
have orientation. There are located
Statements on the fulfillment of the
data protection law
information
duty, which is still by a separate
– also newly developed – feature
sheet “Rights of the Affected” is added.
The pattern also pre-
pictorially identified, too
what information the parents of the
are obliged and which investors
are only to be made voluntarily.

 

• Fundamentally revised or re-introduced
the notes on the
Admissibility of data processing
(Number 1.1 VwV), for processing
special categories of personal
gener data (number 1.4 VwV), to
Data Erasure and Restriction
processing and data transmission
(number 1.5 VwV) and for
right of future (number 1.6 VwV).
 

 

• They receive helpful explanations
schools by the administration
also write to the directory
of processing activities (number
mer 1.8 VwV) including a
listing of regularly at least one
to be carried
computer programs
(Number 1.8.3 VwV), for the necessary
capacity and implementation of a data
protection impact assessment
(Number
1.9 VwV) and to report data
break down (number 1.10 VwV).

 

• I consider them to be particularly important
arrangement of a regular
teaching of the entire college of
School on data protection, which after
Number 1.7.2 VwV once a year
must follow. To prove the
tion, a form will be sent to the schools
Appendix 3 to the administrative regulation
provided.

91

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 8th school and universities However, I see the implementation
improve the administrative regulation
potential:

• As stated in the administrative regulation (Number
mer 1.11.3 and 1.11.5 VwV) mentioned,
is it public according to Article 37 GDPR
union bodies prescribed, one
to appoint a data protection officer
and to report this to me, whereby the
le z. B. use my online portal
can. Unfortunately, however, an
rating that I only from a good 800 public
public and private schools such
reports are available, with around 3800 public
public and about 720 private schools
in Baden-Württemberg (Statistics
State Office, General Education Schools
or vocational schools, overall
view school year 2018/2019). That is a
very small proportion and becomes control
actions of my authority.

 

• The data protection declarations of
verse websites of the schools
do not contain information according to article
13 paragraph 1 letter b DS-GVO to
Data Protection Officer. Such
gave in the Internet appearances of
However, schools could also
increase data protection in schools
hen, v. a. as this allows me to
that of parents, students or
better with students or teachers
the data protection officer together
could work. By specifying
the contact details of the data protection
can order on the website
also those affected more easily
contactable with the data protection officer
contact the school
which, being closer to the school, frequent
quicker than I could understand the data
can fix problems.
 

 

• Already in my last job
2018 I am in chapter 8.1 on the
missing human and financial
Resources when ordering from
Data Protection Officer
received
(Activity report 2018, p. 111).
In the position plan of the supplementary budget
2018/2019 of the Ministry of Education
(Chapter 0404 State Education Authorities
Title 422 01) there are now 26 new ones
Place
for data protection officers,
which are located at the school offices
should be. About new positions for
I am pleased to be the data protection officer
very. But assuming that
the school authorities for around 3100 public
schools are responsible (statistic
State Office, general education
Schools, general overview of the school year
2018/2019; for grammar schools and professional
che schools are not the school authorities,
but the regional councils
responsibly), is an average of one
this data protection officer for approx.
120 schools responsible if none
data protection officers from the
legium of schools were named.
 
If the data protection officer takes
ne tasks according to Article 39 GDPR
seriously, he must call the teachers
sen around 120 schools on data protection
sensitize, advise and protect
and compliance with the data
General Protection Regulation and others
school privacy policy
monitor and he must be in early
all with protection personal
data related questions
to be involved. In addition,
persons affected by him, d. H. here
Parents, students and
Teachers at these around 120 schools
to all persons involved in the processing
related data
take a guess. Such a load of work

92

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 8th school and universities is from the currently ordered data
cannot be managed by the protection officer.
 
With a large number of schools in
the responsibility of a single
data protection officer therefore exists
a contradiction to Article 38(2).
DS-GVO, according to which the person responsible
the resources required to fulfill
must provide sources.
 
For the sample that is still available here
Lematics of the conflict of interest (cf.
Article 38 paragraph 6 GDPR) for the
Employees of the school authority in the radio
tion of the data protection officer
school I refer to chapter 8.1
nes activity report 2018 on p. 111.

The data protection administrative regulation
public schools facilitates school
the implementation of data protection. Al
However, the schools have to continue
significantly more resources for implementation
be made available so that
especially those required by law
data protection officer effective
employed
can become.

93

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 8th School and Universities 94th

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 8. Schools and universities 9. Private data protection
9.1 Temporary employment –

Processing on behalf?

Order processing in accordance with Art. 28
DS-GVO is between responsible
often agreed (unfortunately) to
supposed requirements of the GDPR
to comply, even if specifically
Case no order processing at all
present. If employee data from
different companies raised or
transmitted, with a view to the
employ data protection the data processing
particularly sensitive and precise
regard.

As part of an inspection visit,
nes personnel service provider described us
the company data protection officer
subsequent problem that we at the
Correct the on-site inspection immediately
could:

The business model of the responsible
such place is the so-called "personnel leasing",
i.e. as a "lender" the employee
leasing of temporary workers
according to the employee transfer
sungsgesetzes (AÜG). In the course of the
of temporary workers at other
other companies, the "borrowers".
often in the past
working agreements in accordance with Art. 28
DS-GVO on the part of the hiring company
been sent in order to
property rights requirements of the DS
GMOs against the background of labor
to suffice. According to Article 88
GDPR i. V. m. § 26 Paragraph 8 No. 1 BDSG
are employees within the meaning of the law
“workers,
including temporary workers
and temporary workers in relation to
borrower". This is to make it clear that loan

not just towards employees
your employer, but also against
about the company they work for
are used, under data protection law as
employees apply.

This is due to the fact that it
to a variety of processing, between
transfer to the "lender" and "borrower".
the temporary workers come and
both therefore adhere to the prerequisites
88 DS-GVO i. in conjunction with Section 26
sentence 1 BDSG. That means
but also that order processing
agreement in accordance with Art. 28 GDPR
not at all popular with “personnel leasing”.
question comes. The "Lender" processes
no personal data on
sung, under control or for purposes of
Borrower, as required by Art. 28 GDPR
would put.

The opposite is the case: “borrower” and
"Lenders" process the personal
drawn data temporary workers
mostly for their own or common
me purposes and intentions and thus straight
de not on behalf of or on the instructions of
other contracting party. "Lender" and
"Borrowers" are thus themselves
responsible persons or
jointly responsible.

For the implementation of employee
leasing of temporary workers
comes an order processing association
28 DS-GVO between
“Lender” and “borrower” out of the question.
The companies involved must
(intended) processing of personal
personal data of employees
independently for their legality
check and take appropriate precautions
meet gene

95

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9. Working environment 9.2 Parking space surveillance by

private companies

A within our area of responsibility
resident company monitors federal
as far as compliance with the usage
regulations of private parking lots and
parking garages. Keep turning
Persons who, because of a “parking violation”
used by this company
be taken to our authority because
they see this as a data protection violation.

Such a complaint is fundamental
technically permissible. However, we can
Matter only data protection law
check over. Whether the - alleged - Forde
tion of the company is justified,
may have to decide the civil courts.

The surveillance company can
Vehicle owner data one in his opinion
illegally parked vehicle
the Federal Motor Transport Authority or the
get a job. To do this,
be held liable that the owner
of the parking space may be a legal claim
in connection with the operation of
vehicle. The surveillance
company may use this information
or let it be used in order to – supposedly –
lichen – to enforce claims. That is
permitted under data protection law.

In the event that a person has been proven
"wrong" parked, the un-
take a reasonable time this
Process even after completion of the cost
save the collection procedure in order to
Severe sanctions if repeated
to take or from goodwill decisions
to foresee. But it has to do that
Art. 21 paragraph 1 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation
regulation in case of contradiction of
data subject prove that this
actually one managed by the company

has wrongly used the tenth parking space or
that damage has occurred as a result.
The driver of the vehicle can
gel can only be used
when he's driving into the parking lot
Terms and Conditions that
a contractual penalty for unlawful par-
ken provide, has tacitly accepted.
The existence of a claim against
the owner who does not own the vehicle
turned off, presupposes that the internal
holder of the parking space according to §§ 861,
823 paragraph 1 of the Civil Code
there is concrete damage caused by the
seat confinement" of the parking lot arose
the is.

Can the driver or the holder
such claim cannot be proven
den, their data are after termination
of the recovery procedure in the file,
on which the employees
of the monitoring company for processing
handling such cases
able to delete. The continuation of
Storage for a reasonable time
room is only allowed if the claim
was founded and the company itself
has reserved, in case of recurrence one
to demand a higher contractual penalty or
to refrain from making a goodwill decision.

Notwithstanding, the company
committed even after the final
Completion of the process the data still for
a reasonable documentation period
locked, because the EU data
protection law distinguishes between data
erasure and data destruction. Latter
is only permitted if there are no queries
or legal disputes due to the
data processing are to be expected
or national storage regulations
no longer provide the information
prescribe. However, these may then
only be stored in such a way that

96

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 9th Working Environment
responsible data protection officer
can take hold of. The information may
then only for the tax office, for
data protection controls or for expected
de judicial proceedings are used.

These cases show that companies
not prohibited by data protection law
claims to which they are entitled
to enforce in civil proceedings, but that
data collected for this purpose
additionally no longer processed
may be allowed if the procedure
finally decided. The mooring
"Black lists" is through the EU data
prohibited by data protection law.

9.3 Data Protection Laws

responsibility

In practice, more and more original
the responsibility of the person responsible
transferred to external service providers.
Difficulties often arise
with regard to the delimitation of
verbalities. The data protection law
Responsibility of a service provider for
Document shredding is not inevitable
to deny.

the purposes and means of processing
of personal data
det (cf. Art. 4 No. 7 DS-GVO). violates
he violates the GDPR, so he cannot
only addressee of fines and other
sanctions (Art. 83 and 84
DS-GVO), but is liable to the
or the persons who are
hits a tangible or intangible
ellen damage (Article 82 paragraph 1
GDPR). This claim for damages
is directed primarily against the responsible
literal, but may in some circumstances
also meet the processor, too
if his liability is based on Art. 82
Clause 2 was restricted:
Any person involved in processing
responsible is liable for the damage that
by a non-compliance with this regulation
speaking processing was caused
en. A processor is liable for the
caused by processing
damage only if he uses his spe-
specifically imposed on the processors
ten obligations from this ordinance
complied with or under non-observance
compliance with lawfully issued instructions
of the person responsible for data processing
verbatim or contrary to these instructions
acted.

cause for renewed debate
with this topic was a data breach
message asking whether
a document shredding service provider
when setting up a throw-in container
must check for himself that this ver-
closed is placed or whether it is always
it is the customer's responsibility to
to check the container.

Addressee of the General Data Protection Regulation
tion is primarily the person responsible, so
the natural or legal person,
hearing, institution or other body that
alone or together with others

For the question of liability, it is therefore
dend whether a person responsible or a
carrier caused the damage.
There is no possibility of an exemption
finally the processor of-
fen. Although the processor
clear in principle from the person responsible
is to be separated, can be in borderline cases
quite difficult delimitation questions
place.

Processor is according to Art. 4 No. 8
DS-GVO a body that
ne data on behalf of the person responsible
processed. According to Art. 29 DS-GVO, a

97

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 9th Working Environment Processor
personal
Data only on the instructions of the person responsible
process. The up-
carrier only a very limited one
Freedom of design in a data transfer
work available. Basically
the order processor is not given the
assigned task, but only
an auxiliary activity. Therefore, the processing
processing activity of the processor
in principle to the person responsible
expected. This arises in particular
also from Art. 28 DS-GVO, which
those responsible for checking the suitability
safety of the processor.

Common prime example of existence
an order processing is the addition
contracting a service provider for the filing
destruction. The deletion of magnetic
physical and optical data carriers (e.g.
magnetic tapes, diskettes, CDs, DVDs,
sticks) or the destruction of data
gladly of all kinds, especially of no more
required paper documents, represents a typical
picical data processing. Since
When the GDPR comes into effect, there is a
increasing number of service providers, which
DS-GVO-compliant document destruction
to offer. In particular, it is
that "everything is taken care of".
Small and medium-sized companies in particular
accept understand this offer
Luckily, in order to at least
no worries about data erasure
to have to do more. will be forgotten
doing that the person responsible even then
responsibility for compliance
data protection regulations carries if he
a processor with the destruction
of data carriers with personal
Genetic data commissioned (Article 5 paragraph 2
GDPR). He is responsible for checking and
Compliance with the requirements of the GDPR.
He only succeeds in doing this if he
given clear instructions regarding

of deletion, but also regarding the
Interim storage and transport (up to
for destruction) as well as place and time
of destruction (e.g. on site at the
responsible or in the business premises
of the processor). Are
this information with the service provider not
or difficult to negotiate, must itself
let the person responsible ask the question
whether there is still an order processing
may be spoken and whether he
select a suitable service provider
Has. The less is to be noted here
well-known Art. 28 Paragraph 10 DS-GVO:

Without prejudice to Articles 82, 83 and 84
a processor in breach
contrary to this regulation the purposes and
means of processing, in
access to this processing as the responsible
more.

A service provider who independently
decides how to destroy the data
tet, stores and/or transports, embarks
himself in the position of a responsible
chen. He can feel responsible
ness even if
formally an order processing contract
is closed, but in reality
is not "lived". Such a contract
may put a legal bill though, that
speaks for order processing
but not constituent. Means: Man
cannot use this contract to
create a carrier that actually
none is – but the role of the
has taken responsibility.

The facade of the prime example of
carrying processing is crumbling.
In the meantime
there are some indications that no longer
the service provider also “only”
worker is. What matters is who
actually the type of to be performed
Data processing and handling

98

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment with the personal data to be deleted
new data. The less influence
the company or authority
has the service provider, the less can
one speaks of order processing
chen. That this trend is quite critical
can be seen is obvious: the principle
vialloy for data transmission from
Company or authority on the
Service providers would be omitted, it is therefore necessary
an independent legal basis.
Possibly would even be a joint
Responsibility (Article 26 GDPR).
think. The LfDI advises clear regulations
to meet and these for both sides
to avoid unfavorable legal situation.

9.4 Data protection at the

property management

Property management companies process a variety
number of personal data both
by homeowners as well as by
tenants. Especially with regard to the
community of owners
reigns
administrators often have the view that
Owner data generously passed on
should be, because in the housing
community of owners no data protection
right. This view is incorrect.

Sharing of data within a
homeowners association

The homeowners association
established between its members
civil law obligation with
mutual rights and obligations. Since the
homeowners because of this
contractual legal claims
can arise against each other
they will be able to precede each other if need be
to sue in civil courts.
Every apartment owner therefore has one
legitimate interest, the names and
summonable addresses of all others

obligated,

to find out about co-owners. The administrator
is due to his with the apartment
community of owners
closed
Administrator Agreement
each
Co-owners upon request a list
the names and addresses of the others
to provide co-owners.
No consent is required for this
the individual co-owners one more
decision of the owners' meeting.

The situation is different with the e-mail ad
ress and other contact details of
apartment owner. These are
for
legal disputes between
not to the members of the community
necessary. The transfer of this data
ten by the administrator is therefore neither
to fulfill the management contract
to protect the legitimate interests of
co-owner required. The administrator
must therefore not without the contact details
consent of all concerned owners
pass on.

This also applies to forwarding
E-mails in the context of discussions
and disputes within
homeowners association
U.N-
ter participation of the Administrator. When a
Owner email the manager
draws attention to a grievance, dem
he remedy or in the owner
meeting is to be discussed, so
the question arises as to whether the administration
ter this e-mail to the other co-owners
mers, disclosing the identity of the
may forward the sender after
result of the balancing of interests
Article 6 paragraph 1 subparagraph 1 lit. f GDPR
GMO. Even if the forwarding
be of the non-anonymized email text
should be permissible in individual cases
Transmission of the e-mail address itself in the
Doubt without the consent of the person concerned
owner illegal. Here, too,

99

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th world of work sen the property managers very carefully
look.

Telephone number stored for this purpose
readily required.

Disclosure of data to external parties
Make like artisans

In practice, the property manager often
fig also contact data to external bodies
further, especially to craftsmen. To this
way to ensure that the
ser with the apartment user, be it a
Owner or a tenant, promptly one
repair date can be arranged. Frequently
however, if the transfer occurs to the affected
fenen person to displeasure, about because this
although would have agreed
by telephone, but not by e-mail
craft business to be contacted.

The transfer of contact details takes place
their legal basis regularly in Ar-
article 6 paragraph 1 subparagraph 1 lit. b DS-
GMO, i.e. the transmission must be for the
Fulfillment of a contract, the contractual
party the data subject is, required
be lich. Is it the affected
Apartment users around the owner, so
the administrator contract comes into play for this
costume. So that the administrator in accordance with the contract
initiate a timely repair
he gives the phone number of the egg
owner to the craft business
which he received from the owner at the start of the contract
received for this purpose. in the
within the framework of its information obligations
Article 13 DS-GVO, the administrator must
Owner already when collecting the
Telephone number on the possibility of
Passing on to craftsmen for association
notification of repair dates.
On the other hand, the administrator, if he is in
E-mail from the owner over time
receives, whose e-mail address is not without
the consent of the owner
Craftsmen pass on, because such
Passing would be given on this

The problem becomes clearer with the
Rental Management. The prospective tenant shares
the lessor, who
broker or to whom the tenant
election preparatory house manager often
a variety of communication data
with, in order at all in the selection of tenants
to be taken into account. is that coming
The tenancy is then established
Administrator owned each of the official
and private landline and mobile numbers
mer of the tenant and his e-mail address
resse and, if applicable, the fax connection number
his parents. Will be in the apartment
Repair due, the administrator chooses
unfortunately often "on target" that contact
tum from under which the tenant concerned
is hardest to reach or him
completely dispenses with the selection and
immediately gives all contact details without
agreement of the tenant.

Here too, passing on a contact
datum required, namely for fulfilment
of the between tenant and landlord
concluded rental agreement. Is required
but only the contact date, under
which the tenant can be reached and reached
want to be cash. If the manager has more
previous contact details, he may not use them
all forward but must focus on
the limitation necessary for the purpose
know On which of several of the
walter available contact details this
applies, he has by virtue of his
liability under data protection law
determine. For this purpose it recommends
himself, simply to ask the tenant under
what contact date he for craftsmen
wants to be reachable. Only if the administrator
ter to this question in a reasonable time
does not receive an answer, he may
divorce what contact date he dem

100

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment handicraft business transmitted. the information
Notification according to Article 13 GDPR applies
also towards the tenant.

The property manager has the transfer
of contact details of the apartment users
Principles of Necessity and
consider data minimization.
 
Appointment of a data protection officer
carried by an apartment owner
community
 
Property managers offer the
affiliated apartment owners
communities at times, for you next to
the administration of the residential complex also the
Tasks of a data protection officer
to take over. The resulting ones
costs should then be fully
be imposed on community. This pre-
walking requires critical consideration.

A homeowners association
is regularly not to name a
nes data protection officer committed.
In particular, in the community in
usually just not ten or more
People constantly using the automated
processing of personal data
busy what according to § 38 paragraph 1 sentence
1 BDSG trigger a designation obligation
would. This should also usually be the case
then not be the case if the
owner has not appointed an administrator
have, but the common
manage property yourself.

Orders the condominium community
schaft, however, an administrator, so is
this self-responsible person in the data
protective sense. Neither will he
as a processor for the community
active, because the administrator is subject
according to the usual contract design
the instructions of the apartment owner

community and is also supported by it
not monitored. The administrator is processing
personal data therefore not in the
Mission of the community for this,
under their own responsibility to carry out
running his own business.
For example, due to the number of
usually constantly with the administrator
the processing of personal data
ten persons employed the naming
required by a data protection officer,
this obligation does not apply to the housing
community of owners, but the
walter himself.

An administrator who, due to legal
appointed a data protection officer
called to ensure compliance with data protection
zes in his company,
therefore has no reason whose actions
activity towards the homeowners
to be declared as a service for them
and they stand out from the community
to be compensated. Neither does
it seems appropriate if the administration
ter other expenses that the
compliance with data protection regulations
serve as part of its business activities,
of the community as a privacy service
billed.

The homeowners association
should always check whether they themselves
appointment of a data protection officer
is obliged.

9.5 Data protection in the

credit industry

Photocopies of ID cards
credit institutions

The practice of credit institutions in which
opening an account the identity card
to photocopy the customer
len for a long time for irritation. The-

101

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th world of work this procedure is also not included
Application of the GDPR lawful.

By having the bank
and keep the copy, process
use the ones printed on the ID card
personal data. By article
6 Paragraph 1 lit. c DS-GVO is such
processing lawful, among other things,
if they are to comply with a legal
obligation that the person responsible
succumbs, is required. The authoritative
legal obligation is the money laundering
schegesetz (GwG). credit
According to § 2 paragraph 1 no.
1 GwG to the bodies, the obligations
subject to the Money Laundering Act.
According to § 10 Paragraph 1 No. 1 and
Paragraph 3 sentence 1 no. 1 the contractual partner
when establishing the business relationship
to identify. The verification
verification of the identity data in accordance with Section 12
Clause 1 Clause 1 No. 1 GwG based on an official
identity card, such as in particular the
identity card. § 8 paragraph 2
Sentence 2 GwG makes it clear that the bank
has the right and the obligation to
pien of the identity verification submitted
to prepare identification document or it
fully optically digitized.
The copies are according to § 8 paragraph 4 sentence 1
to be retained for five years.

In this context, not
should be mentioned that § 11 paragraph 4 No. 1
GwG names the data that is used within the framework of the
collect identification of the customer
are. Some of the ones on the identity card
information printed on it, e.g.
per size and eye color, as well as those for
the use of the online function at
access number required under
don't listen to it. It is therefore often pointed out
pointed out that the complete copy
of the identity card without
tongues of individual unneeded information

102

the principle of data minimization
Article 5 paragraph 1 lit. c GDPR contradict
che. This objection is correct, but it stands
as a result of the applicability of Section 8
Paragraph 2 clause 2 of the GwG. That is
enjoys the General Data Protection Regulation
including the principle of data
minimization fundamental application
priority over regulations of the
national right. The obligation to copy from § 8
However, AMLA serves to implement
article 40 paragraph 1 lit. a of the Fourth Money
cal directive (2015/849). Adjust accordingly
the Member States that credit institutions
a copy of the identification
tion of the documents received by the customer
make and store. Since the ideas
tification based on an undarkened
identification document has taken place,
with even just a full copy for
the fulfillment of the retention obligation
under consideration. Article 40 paragraph 1 lit. a of
Fourth Money Laundering Directive is to that extent
in relation to the basic data protection
order a priority special regulation.
The bank therefore does not need any redaction
individual details in the ID copy
accept. Although it is from the point of view of
not gratifying that companies
also such personal
store identification data that is used for your
business activities are not readily
are required. In view of the aforementioned
legal situation, the data protection
but the complete
Copy of the identity card
Banks as part of the identification
accept under the Money Laundering Act.

At the beginning of the transaction, bank customers must
business relationship accept that the
bank a complete copy of their personal
national identity card prepared and stored.

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment credit checks in the
insurance industry
Just like other companies are too
Banks and insurance companies entitled
before completing a financially risky
contract with a credit agency for a bonus
to obtain information about your customer.
The existence of the corresponding risk
However, the location must be checked carefully.

Get an insurance company one
credit report on a customer,
to draw from his financial performance
ability to persuade, that's how it processes
personal data worthy of protection
Data. Such processing is after
Article 6 paragraph 1 lit. f GDPR lawful,
if they are used to protect the legitimate
interests of the person responsible or one
Third party is required, unless the
interests or fundamental rights and fundamental
freedoms of the data subject who
Protection of personal data required
other, predominate. A legitimate internet
esse of the insurer comes regularly
only considered if this is through the
Credit check before a credit check
wants to protect against the risk of default, i.e. if he
he wants to create his own
sustainable performance not without sufficient
prospect of receiving consideration
customers. The relevant
che performance of the insurer not only
payment in the event of damage. Much more
the abstract insurance
protection from the start of the contract period
performance of the insurer, independently
of whether there is a damaging event
and as a result to a claim for damages
performance by the insurer.
A predominant protected
interests of the policyholder
is usually not given.

There is a risk of financial default
but not the insurer if the

policyholder his premium payment
payment fully in advance. This is
usually the case with liability insurance
security for mopeds. Here the insurance
Protection only for one year. the insurance
policyholder receives for this period
an insurance indicator, whose
Validity already on the font color
be clearly recognizable. Should the
collateral taker therefore after expiry of
insurance period without liability
insurance ride a moped, like that
liability of the insurance
company not considered. Whose
financial risk is therefore due to the im
Premium payment paid in advance
covers. Under these circumstances, the
insurer no legitimate interest
remember to get a credit rating from a credit agency
information on the policyholder
call.

The data protection supervisory authority will
Obtaining creditworthiness information for
continue to critically accompany future bureaus.

scoring

According to the findings of the consumer
it is central in times of low interest rates
apparently widespread to buy on credit
fen and to get into debt. This
attitude brings the risk of massive
ven over-indebtedness. That again-
order prompts the companies to step forward
Contract conclusions by obtaining a
Score of the creditworthiness of the
to convince the contractual partner. This
should use a complicated calculation
something about the future
Payment behavior of the data subject
statement.

Art. 22 paragraph 2 DS-GVO allows that
Decisions about the conclusion or
the fulfillment of a contract is excluded

103

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment on the basis of an automated
calculated score values are met
the. Also can score values together
with other parameters for extraction
such a prognosis can be used
if for such a procedure in concrete
ten case a legitimate interest i. p. des
Art. 6 paragraph 1 lit. f GDPR exists.
The calculation or use of a score
rewertes is lawful only if the
Data protection regulations both at
the bodies that calculate the score,
with those who have this information
transmitted, as well as with the
responsable, which ultimately determines the score
use, be complied with or
have been held. That's why the
Inclusion of unlawfully processed
data and such whose storage
between has become inadmissible, basic
additionally not allowed. This applies in particular
special highly personal information i. s.d
Art. 9 GDPR. The information must also
be correct in terms of content. is problematic,
whether data from social networks
may be included. This is al-
if necessary, to accept information
which the data subject himself "for
dermann accessible” on the internet
or the authorities and courts
could publicly announce
(e.g. list of debtors of the full
Extension courts according to § 882 f paragraph 1
Sentence 1 No. 4, Section 882 g Paragraph 2 No. 2 ZPO,
Decisions in insolvency proceedings e.g.
B. § 30 InsO).

For the calculation of the score value
fen only data are used that are necessary for this
based on a scientific
ly mathematical-statistical
rens demonstrably significant and suitable
are. The procedure must be consistent with
the state of the art for the analysis
se whether the data subject due to their
Characteristics of a specific comparison

group whose creditworthiness is known,
be fit. The statistical
cal comparative values must be up-to-date. Further
must have sufficient factual
position for the prognosis exist.

The determination of the probability
value must not be decisive on so-called
font data. Meant are the
Characteristics of the residential building (age
and type), as well as the payment history of the
residents of the street and the building,
where the affected person lives.

If a responsible person makes an automatic
ted decision i. p. of Art. 22
Clause 2 lit. a GDPR, i.e. exclusively
based on a score value, the
affected person according to Art. 22 paragraph 3 DS-
GMO the review of the decision
including the used Sco-
rewertes under statement of their own
position by a natural person
to demand.

Otherwise the following applies:
With regard to credit agencies, the
affected persons according to Art. 15 paragraph 1
DS-GVO, recital 63, require
to be informed about which data
ten for the calculation of
the score values are stored and where
since the company has received them
(Article 15 paragraph 1 lit. g GDPR). Included
can the credit agency not deal with
suffice, merely the category to which the
belong to stored data, to name
(cf. Art. 15 Paragraph 1 lit. b DS-GVO).
After the in accordance with Art. 22 paragraph 3
DS-GVO standing, so far for scoring
case law of the Federal Court of Justice
there is a right to information which
specific individual data are stored,
thus erroneous information even before her
Usage corrected and misunderstanding-
se can be enlightened, what at the

104

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment mere disclosure of data categories
that would not be possible.

According to recent case law,
also value judgments a verifiable,
apt core of facts.
To do this, the digits, the score values
calculate or use, at least
state which circumstances are relevant
were that the person concerned was not considered
rated "unconditionally creditworthy".
became. Also is on request about it
to inform what dates in already
calculated score values received
have, to whom so far which score values
have been transmitted, which is why the
stored or used information
should be suitable, a realistic
to determine score value, and which
legitimate interests for use
information from social networks
ken should exist.
According to Art. 18 Paragraph 1 DS-GVO, the
data subject the right against which
saved for the score calculation
th data at the credit agency objection
to raise and demand that this
be checked for accuracy.
The credit agency cannot verify their accuracy
prove the information must either
corrected according to Art. 16 DS-GVO or after
Article 17 paragraph 1 lit. d GDPR deleted
will.

Due to Art. 21 Paragraph 1 DS-GVO
the data subject can process
object to the processing of their data. Does she want
that in connection with a
value calculation, she must counter-
substantiated about the person responsible
present matters worthy of protection that
the calculation and transmission of a
Score value can be violated or
became. A score violates the personality
right of a person or his
Right to exercise freely

of his profession according to Art. 12 GG, if the
Rate the inaccurate impression
conveys that the person concerned is not
unqualified credit, although it
no grounds for such an assumption
are. The data subject can claim
make that calculation result
evidently incorrect or that not
current, incorrect, objectionable, for
the calculation is inadmissible or inappropriate
specific information or previously illegal
processed data are used or
have been. The score value
invoice the factual basis is missing if
insufficient data to
available or if important relevant
te facts, e.g. B. Freedom from debt - au-
stay or have stayed or
if (partial) value judgments, estimate data and
Blanket valuations are not viable
facts are based. Furthermore, a
be contacted, the credit agency is missing for
the processing of knowledge
the social networks the justified
interest or it would
giving too much weight to data
be sen. Last but not least,
be gene, act in the calculation
it is a fantasy product because the
Credit agency don't see themselves in a position to do that
Coming into existence of the calculation after
to explain fully. In case of an
such objection, the responsible
literal according to Art. 21 paragraph 1 sentence 2 DS-
GMO refuting the objections
prove that there are acceptable reasons for
the contested score calculation gives,
which the interests of the persons concerned
son predominate.

The data protection supervisory authority will
be very careful in the future
that the requirements of the EU data protection
basic regulation when calculating and
use of score values should be observed
the.

105

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9. World of work 9.6 Consent texts and data

protection instructions using the example of
Raffle tickets and prize
play on websites

The practice of the supervisory authority shows
that many sweepstakes unfortunately often
to collect personal information
data are used. According to Art. 6
Clause 1 letter a DS-GVO is used for the
Collection of personal data
also in sweepstakes
consent of the person concerned required.
Therefore, the sweepstakes will also be held in
usually with the consent to advertising
advertisement, e.g. directly on a postcard,
printed.

Obtaining consent in accordance with Art. 7
DS-GVO is based on the
principles of Article 5 with EG 39 as well
as Art. 12 GDPR. The starting point
thus forms the transparency of the data
processing. Furthermore, by means of
neter technical and organizational
Measures according to Art. 24 and 32 GDPR
consent to advertising is sufficient
from the consent to participate in the
win game be delimited. ideally
The customer can choose which ones
Topics he on what ways advertising
want to receive.
The sweepstakes and consent must
therefore meet certain requirements
len, so that the consent to advertising
according to Art. 7 Paragraph 2 DS-GVO
can be generated. It must be in understandable
cher, easily accessible form and in a
clear and simple language as well as trans-
parent and understandable.
In the checks carried out and
numerous inquiries in the context of
winning games are the following data-
problem areas relevant to intellectual property law
noticed:

Return in an envelope:
Once personal data on
a lottery ticket that is about
the bare address should get out that
lottery participants clearly point out
be pointed out that data protection
an envelope for legal reasons
should be used to
authorized inspection of the address and
the other personal data
of the competition participant
other Of course, it's better to have one directly
return envelope for the one to be returned
attach answer.

Font size:
In the regulatory
checks are also numerous
che consents and sweepstakes
a font size in the millimeter range
noticed. Instead, the consent
commitment to advertising transparent and
take place regularly. This includes
of course an appropriate one – even without
Magnifying glass readable – font size. According to the
DIN 5008 standard, it is in favor of reading
even useful, in the body of the text none
font size smaller than 10 points
turn around. A clear contrast and a
sufficient sharpness, i.e. a black,
clearly visible writing, are for readers
availability just as imperative. At least in
The font can be used on the internet
increase by hand.

Consent to advertising and raffles
sung, simultaneous consent for
the entire advertising space on all
Contact ways:
The separation requirement was made by a judgment
of the BGH (1.2.2018 - Az. III ZR 196/17)
unfortunately canceled recently. previously
te man (mandatory) between the individual
n contact channels and advertising fields
Select. Nevertheless, should also after new
Legal position of the lottery participants

106

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment have the opportunity to
tion channels and individual advertising fields
be able to swipe or select individually
to. Often the consent should
ment for advertising at the same time for SMS,
Calls to landlines, calls to the
Mobile phones and advertising mails are carried out.

Consent to Advertising and
Raffle, legally binding:
If the consents on the postcard
for the sweepstakes from the consent in
data processing for advertising purposes
are not clearly separated, according to Art. 7
sentence 2 sentence 2 DS-GVO this consent
ineffective. One way to win
to separate the game from the advertising consent
are different boxes that
ticked by the contest participant
can become.

Consent to advertising is
voluntarily:
The GDPR understands "consent".
in accordance with its Art. 4 No. 11 each freely
willingly for the specific case, in inform-
way and unequivocally
given declaration of intent in the form of a
statement or any other unequivocal
confirmatory act with which the
affected person indicates that they
with the processing of the data concerning you
consent to personal data
is. Art. 7 f. GDPR is decisive,
recitals 32, 33, 38, 42, 43,
65 and 171 as well as §§ 27, 51 BDSG.
A consent is therefore only effective,
if they are based on the free decision of the
data subject is based on the
the purpose of the collection, processing
or use and, insofar as after the
states of the individual case required or
upon request, the consequences of refusal
the consent was pointed out
(So already on the old BDSG: OLG Frankfurt
am Main, 01/24/2018 - 13 U 165/16). the

Consent must therefore always be for the con-
specific case and with knowledge of the facts
be granted (Federal Court of Justice, judgment of 25.10.2012,
I ZR 169/10, juris para. 24; to the old
right) to be effective.

Transfer of data to third parties:
Should the consent be extended to other
men are extended, these must be in
the declaration of consent with names and
address must be listed explicitly, otherwise
– especially with a large number of favorable
companies – the possibility of
withdrawal of consent at any time
inappropriate to the advertiser
sen is limited (OLG Koblenz, Urt.
v. March 26, 2014, 9 U 1116/13, juris para. 39
m.w.N.; to the old law). flat fee
declarations of consent meet these requirements
at least not demands. Also the
number of beneficiary companies should
remain manageable.

Privacy notices for
Sweepstakes:
As part of the data processing for
Implementation of the competition meets the
responsible body already at the time of collection
of the personal data the information
13 DS-GVO. Hence
must read the privacy notices alongside
of consent are printed. Leaves
This is about due to the scope
not show on a postcard is a hint
refers to the data protection notices on the
Website of the provider (e.g. as a link)
by way of a so-called "media break".
fundamentally conceivable in today's opinion.

It should be clear to the customer
what happens to their data and when
these are deleted again. The data-
protection notices for the sweepstakes should
its own section in the general
data protection notices of the responsible
verbatim received.

107

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9. World of work 9.7 On the high seas

In order to draw attention to health problems
agree to a cruise prepared
be, a tour operator wanted to
inquire about the state of health of the passengers.
The search for a legal basis for
this processing was more difficult than
waits.

A Baden-Württemberg travel company
company that offers, among other things, cruises
tet, wanted a few months before the departure of the
ship a questionnaire to the
greed ship on the different
answer questions about the state of health
should be spoken. The questions were
partially openly formulated, for example
flat rate after operations and inpatient
ren treatments in the past
five years and after regular medication
comment intake asked.

The reason given was that the
Cruising to remote waters
lead and a medical evacuation
tion (e.g. by helicopter) for days
could be impossible. Therefore it is necessary
agile, the state of health of the
to be checked in advance and any precautions
to meet. Also must before departure
of the ship to be checked whether special
medication must be carried.
Since health data to the particularly
sensitive data according to Art. 9 DS-GVO
len, both had a legal basis
according to Art. 6, as well as according to Art. 9 DS-GVO
present. Art. 9 paragraph 2 DS-GVO offers
here are different options:

• The processing is for the purpose of
health care on the basis
location of the European or German
(excl.
s
further
or

necessary
Requirements),

To the right

• the processing is to protect life
important interests of the person
and the person can be physical
or legal reasons currently no
give consent, or

 

• there is consent.

In addition, there are other regulations for
different cases, but none here
role played.

Our examination revealed the following:
Processing for the purpose of health
health care was certainly present here. Al
however, no (European or
find German) law that allows travel
prescribes the health
to check the condition of their customers. Also
Inquiries at the maritime medical service in
Hamburg and a shipping company surrendered here
no further insights.

Although the travel company is obliged
tet, its customers “in trouble […]
to grant assistance" (§ 651q BGB), this
does not mean, however, that this
there is already an obligation for the customer,
disclose health information. sufficient
It would be much more appropriate if the customer
before the start of the journey has the
willing to provide certain information.

The second option wasn't here either
applicable. It might be possible
comment that processing for
Protection of vital interests needed
would. However, the passengers are
able to give consent
ben (if you want it) because you
are neither unconscious nor a particular
their legal situation. A be-
special emergency, in which one
So this is where consent could go
not before.

108

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9. World of work The only legal basis remained
with the consent according to Art. 9 paragraph 2
Letter a DS-GVO left. The travel
company has agreed to do so
implement.

Finally, it should be noted that
Travel companies should pay attention to
their customers in advance about possible
to clarify health risks and help,
advice or other support
to offer. Whether and to what extent
takes up this offer, stays
but then leave it to each individual.

If a travel company in front of a
Cruise Health Data of the Passover
greed comes as a legal
basis currently only a voluntary and
informed consent (Article 6 paragraph 1 sentence
1 letter a in conjunction with Art. 9 Para.
sentence 2 letter a DS-GVO) in question.

the transmission of a responsible
in the EU to a processor
ter in a third country (Decision 2010/87/
EU standard contract for order data transfer
arbeiter LINK) are transitional
until modified or revoked
the Commission continues to apply (Art
46 paragraph 5 sentence 2 DS-GVO), record these
However, this constellation is not. Instead of this
do they presuppose that a responsible
cher in the EU a processor
in a third country directly
applies. For a permit-free
Transfer of personal data in the
it is the constellation described at the beginning
therefore required that the responsible
In the EU, the processors im
third country commissioned and with these
– if necessary represented by others
Processors in the EU - the standards
standard contract for contract data processors
completes.

9.8 News from the area

international traffic

The DS-GVO supplements the already from the
instruments known to date
for a transfer of personal data
to countries outside the EU (third-party
der) about new approaches and instruments.
Themes from previous years settled down
continues, such as the EU-US Privacy Shield.

We still reach us again and again
Consultation requests for the following constellation
tion from the field of international
Order data processing: A responsible
literally in the EU or the European
European Economic Area (EEA).
a processor in the EU or
the EEA, which in turn has a sub-contract
processor in a third country
want to switch. The standard contract
clauses of the European Commission for

For the interpretation of the case groups of the Arti-
Article 49 of the GDPR (e.g. third-country
transfer based on consent
ment of the data subject or to safeguard
compelling legitimate interests of
those responsible) meanwhile exist
a working paper of the data protection
committee that provides valuable information on
of Article 49 (Guidelines
2/2018 on the exceptions under Article 49
of Regulation 2016/679).
 
Binding internal data protection regulations
ten (binding corporate rules or
BCR) are enjoying ever-increasing numbers
Popularity as a tool for transfer
personal data in third countries
within a group of companies.
The GDPR stipulates that BCR in cohesion
procedure by the data protection
Committee of all European
be dealt with by the supervisory authorities. Around
to take this into account, the

109

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 9th Working World Long-agreed informal procedures of
adapted to mutual recognition.
All data protection supervisory authorities
and the Secretariat of the European Data
Tenant Protection Committee now receive
the draft of the BCR with the
already available for content review
Opening of the actual coherence
driving The state representative for
Data protection and freedom of information
In the reporting period, Baden-Württemberg
raum as the lead supervisory authority
and as a co-examiner at several BCR
drive contributed.

The GDPR provides in Article 46 paragraph 2
lit. e and f with approved codes of conduct
regulate and approved certification
mechanisms new instruments for one
transfer to third countries, which the European
sche data protection committee currently
the creation of corresponding work
still full of life. On January 23rd
In 2019, the European Commission
Involvement of the Data Protection Committee
an adequacy decision for yes-
pan enact. The third common
review of the adequacy
Application for the USA (EU-US Privacy Shield)
by the European Commission and the
American side with the participation of
European regulators in the fall
this year has made progress on the one hand
result - so find about on the part of
American supervision increasingly
independent controls at the (self)
certified American company
men instead - on the other hand there are others
numerous open questions and significant
need for improvement. For example, the EU
European side so far no access to
all information and documents
ten that make a reliable statement about that
functioning of legal protection mechanisms
allow for those affected from Europe
would.

The coming year just promises
in relation to the international data
transfer to become exciting. late 2016
had one Irish and two French
Civil Rights Organizations Complaints
gene the adequacy decision
the EU Commission on EU-US Privacy
Shield raised. During one of these
meanwhile rejected as inadmissible
assigned (Digital Rights Ireland, Az.
T-670/16), La Quadra-
ture du Net (Az. T 738/16) still attached
gig. Also 2016 brought the Irish
data protection supervisory authority
standard contractual clauses of the EU Commission
for contract data processors before the
permanent Irish court (High Court). Of the
In mid-2018, the High Court presented the European
ical Court of Justice (ECJ) questions on the
Standard contractual clauses before (preliminary
Divorce request dated May 9, 2018, file no.
C-311/18). These relate to the
Use of Standard Contractual Clauses for
Data transfers to the United States. Also in
this procedure is in the foreseeable future
with a verdict that may go far
far-reaching statements on the admissibility of the
Data transfers to third countries included
will to count. not unlikely
that all parties involved have a "Safe Harbor II"
threatens…

The March 2018 by the US Congress
passed the so-called Cloud Act
does it allow US criminal prosecutors
authorities under certain conditions
stipulations, disclosure from outside
customer data stored in the USA
to require US providers. The European
sche data protection committee on 10.
July 2019 a first statement and
legal assessment of the effects
of the Cloud Act on data processing
tion in Europe. After that lie
for challenges based on the Cloud Act
demands that do not lead to an effective

110

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment with international agreements such as
a mutual legal assistance agreement
can, the conditions for a
Third-country transfer according to Chapter 5
of the GDPR and the general data
protective requirements for the
lawfulness of data processing,
in particular according to Article 6 DS-GVO, al-
if necessary in exceptional cases.
Data transfers to third countries
with risks for the informational self-
determination of those affected.
Therefore, data processing agencies should
len carefully check whether they have benefits in
claim that with a trans
transfer of personal data to countries
outside the EU and the European
economic area are connected.
In any case, we recommend at one
Transfer to third countries urgently for which
technical and organizational security
measures to the highest standards, e.g. Legs
strong encryption
and data protection declarations on Art
and manner and scope
ner data processing in third countries
to read carefully. Remain open in this respect
Questions, we advise against using such
offers from.

111

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - 9th working environment 112

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - 9th Working Environment 10th From the office

10.1 From the office

In the last activity report, I presented the challenges that this
Effective date of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and entry into force
of the State Data Protection Act for the agency as such and in particular
entailed for the employees. We've pretty much gotten along by now
consolidated and able to work in all areas.
But that doesn't mean we can sit back and relax. Next to
the still high number of cases in the specialist departments, which need to be processed in a timely manner
demanded everything from the colleagues, was also in the areas of personnel, household and
Organization of 'business as usual' no mention at all.

My goal is to ensure more staff turnover so that my colleagues can too
get to know the world outside of data protection and, in addition to personal
development, including the requirements for taking on management
creating functional functions was fulfilled more quickly and extensively than expected. That
is certainly also related to the fact that data protection in times of digitization
tion has meanwhile acquired a different status – and probably also with
our better "visibility". So it's no wonder other bodies are looking to us
and our work - and try to use our know-how (and
unfortunately also to participate in our excellent "staff"). deputy
to federal ministries and administrative courts, as well as transfers
Universities and other state authorities show that there is a change in mentality here
the other public bodies, but of course also among the employees of the service
place has occurred. As much as I hate to let my colleagues go - for them
Of course, those affected also make me happy, and I see it as an opportunity for our here
disseminate the acquired data protection competence by means of such multipliers
gen – a 'win-win situation'!

Like the state administration as a whole, we are also feeling the development
ments on the labor market, in which the public service and the economy around the
best minds competed. However, this shows that the interest in the topic of data
protection, not least fueled by the General Data Protection Regulation, some
but leads to lucrative private offers in favor of an exciting and responsible
eloquent task in a socially relevant area of the public
Turn right – the department was able to hire eight new employees in 2019
register. And with that we are completely occupied.

With a view to the fact that the state parliament of my department with the double budget
2020/2021 again awarded 10 positions, for which I am extremely grateful,
I am optimistic that I will find more colleagues to work on this task
to be able to
Speaking of the budget: My wish, which has been expressed many times, that my department for

113

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - The modest material resources available from the agency are to be further structurally increased
Parliament now complied. The approach was increased by EUR 75,000 for the years
2020/2021 also increased by an additional EUR 20,000 each. It does this now
possible to make urgently needed investments on a reliable basis.
Furthermore, personnel expenditure budgeting was introduced, which
ral budget responsibility extended to the area of personnel expenses and additional
creates opportunities for flexibility. We will use that intensively.

In addition, with a view to the move to new premises in 2020, we
opportunities are adequately covered with appropriate material resources. With that they can
Service and event rooms in the new domicile are modern and employee-friendly
to be equipped. This certainly contributes to increasing the motivation of colleagues
agree, especially with the space situation created by the constant increase in staff
has now reached the limit of what is reasonable.

A lot has also happened in organizational terms. In preparation for the introduction of
national E-Akte BW in the office, the introduction of the national
uniform filing plan as a prerequisite for this. The implementation that now
in January 2020, also accelerates the processes in the registry of the service
position that is particularly burdened by the high number of cases. Their relief by
Changes in the process organization, in particular through digital measures
men, was another focus of the work in the organizational area.

All in all, digitization does not stop at my office. the
Participation processes internally have been converted so that they can be paperless,
Telework has been institutionalized and expanded, and most recently mobile work too
introduced. Furthermore, the range of electronic administrative services
expanded on the department's homepage and initial preparations for the migration
the IuK of the Baden-Württemberg IT department (BITBW), which will take place in 2020
begin and should be completed by Q1/2021.

The office of the state administration has also turned to other things and is taking
at the existing interministerial working group meetings on cross-cutting issues
part. I find the exchange very profitable and would like to take part in it
thank the ministries for making the agency and its staff so
were openly admitted to the circle of the supreme state authorities. We will
contribute constructively and helpfully to these positions as well.

You can find our agency statistics in the appendix.

114

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - From Department 10.2 Press and Public Relations

My office for press and public relations also provided information in the reporting
on the one hand, those interested in data protection and freedom of information about current and
publicly relevant topics. On the other hand, it is the central point of contact for jour-
nalists to answer current questions. But also inquiries from the population
especially when data protection issues are dominating the headlines
are answered here.

press work

The increasing number of inquiries from the media in recent years, be it
Interview requests, data protection issues or a request for a current position
application, proves the increasing importance of data protection. Not only takes
The number of inquiries is constantly increasing, and the range of topics is also becoming ever broader,
about which my department is asked for information or an opinion. This related
are primarily based on questions about fine procedures, the number of complaints and
Inquiries, evaluation of the GDPR, patient data protection and hacker attacks.

Press releases on privacy-related topics and events were also published
announced to the public through press releases in the year under review. In relation
the press releases were mainly influenced by the results of the municipal survey
important topic, but also communications on artificial intelligence (AI), the first
Fine against a police officer as well as our control measures have become one
led to great press coverage.

Press conferences were also held on February 4, 2019 and November 4, 2019.
The thematic hooks were the presentation of the 34th data protection
ness report and the presentation of the results of the data protection survey at the
Municipalities in Baden-Württemberg.

115

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - From the office Date

Surname

The results of the municipal data protection survey by the LfDI are available
Results of the community survey
Presentation of the results of the community survey
Brochure Municipalities (December 2019)

04.11.

09.10.

On the use of cookies and cookie banners

09.09.

Data protection officers strengthen companies

08/19

Artificial intelligence - and its consequences

07/31

Municipalities in Baden-Württemberg need more support in implementing the
data protection

07/30

Data breaches are a growing concern

28.06.

Data breaches in registration information

06/18

First fine against police officers

03.06.

Cinema session with the state representative

05/24

The first IFG-Days Baden-Württemberg

04/22

More light! – Design shared responsibility in a meaningful way

09.04.

Transparency protects academic freedom

08.04.

Control measures for the GDPR are in place

20.03.

Discussion with Federal Minister of Justice Katarina Barley

03/11

School lessons of a different kind

02/28

LfDI Baden-Württemberg imposes a fine on former Juso state boss

116

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - From the office 14.02.

Students develop solutions for data protection

02/11

Keep cool during cold Brexit

04.02.

LfDI Dr. Stefan Brink presents the 34th activity report on data protection

01/30

Nationwide cooperation between supervisory authorities supports BvD initiative

01/22

Clean up after the political hack

117

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - From the website department

The website of my office is obviously used nationwide and allows,
after feedback from users, the conclusion to be greatly appreciated.
In addition to retrieving current information, brochures and leaflets are available
all things also our contact forms are used actively:

Incoming figures online complaint form:

118

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - From the incoming figures "Notification of a violation of the protection of personal data
according to Art. 33 DS-GVO" May 2018 to December 2019:

Contact details of the data protection officer:
Since May 2018, my department has received around 32,000 contact details using an online form
reported by data protection officers.

FAQs

So that you can quickly and easily get an overview of our topics
we have frequently asked questions in a separate section on our website
summarized with the corresponding answers:

• Data protection in the doctor's office
• Cookies and tracking
• Photography and data protection – We are in the picture!
•
• Municipalities
• Data protection in nursing

Freedom of Information

119

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - From the office • Social benefits
•  Societies
• Publication of photos specifically for clubs

More FAQs will be added to this section on a regular basis. So it's worth going here
keep checking back.

newsletter

The newsletter of my office is published several times a year and has
currently more than 3,500 subscribers.
You can subscribe to the newsletter here:
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/newsletter-anmeldung/

publications
In the past period, important new brochures and samples have been
public. On my website under the heading "Infothek" you will find numerous
rich various materials with explanations, definitions and references to the
individual regulations and their implementation.

I would particularly recommend reading the following guides from my official
Job:

• Brochure "Order processing according to DS-GVO"
• Brochure "Persons' rights"
• Practical guide "The Commissioner for Data Protection" - Part I and Part II
• Brochure "Photography and data protection - compact and practice-oriented"
• Guide to employee data protection
• Orientation guide "Data protection in the association according to the DS-GVO"
• Practical guide for clubs
• Video surveillance by public authorities in Baden-Württemberg
• Brochure "What you can do against unwanted advertising"

We are always open to your feedback on our press and public relations work
Ear! My team will respond to the comments at the email address pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de
take up, comment on the proposals and suggestions and answer questions.
With the support of the users, we not only want our digital offer to be good, but
to do better.

120

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - From the department Information about the department
structure of the office

The Office of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
heit has 53.5 permanent positions and is divided into six departments and the European staff unit
articulated. The respective leaders and their main topics are the
can be found in the overview below. If you have any questions, please contact our
telephone exchange (0711 / 61 55 41 – 0).

Switchboard: 0711 / 61 55 41 - 0
The switchboard is open Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and Monday to
also manned on Thursdays from 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.

Fax: 0711 / 61 55 41 - 15

Email: poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de

121

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - From the Department of Statistics

designation

complaints
-	public area

- non-public area
controls
-	public area
- non-public area
consultations
-	public area
- non-public area

2016

2017

2018

2019

 

840

1208

12
4

878
637

1186

1872

1188

2714

23
32

991
795

5
8th

1492
2948

 
972

2785
 
39
72
 
1289
2553

122

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - From the Tables for Article 1.6 "E-mail advertising according to § 7 Paragraph 3 UWG"

Examples regarding goods:
Purchased Goods

goods with corresponding
typical use and
possible uses

Classic accessories or
spare Parts

traffic usual
supplementary goods

men's shoe
children's bike

Other men's shoes
Tricycles, scooters, balance bikes

Insole, laces
kids bike helmets,
air pumps, bicycle baskets

Women's winter coat
laser printer
Ticket for one
Opera

Women's winter jackets
inkjet printer
Tickets for classic
music and ballet

---
color cartridges
---

shoe polish
bicycle insurance,
theft protection,
bike financing
gloves, scarf, hat
paper
Ticket, ticket vouchers

E-MAIL ADVERTISING ACCORDING TO SECTION 7 PAR. 3 UWG PERMITTED

Examples of services:
services with
rendered
corresponding, typical
service
performance goals

Classic accessories

traffic usual
additional or
supplementary services

Printing of business cards
(on-line)
online booking
Package tour to
Nice (flight, hotel)
Online Cell Phone Contract

online car rental
contract
Online photo development
(on paper)

Printing of stationery or
envelopes
Package tours to
France

business card case,
business card stand
cancellation insurance

Personalized printing
of objects
Rental cars, excursion packages

other telecom
contracts
Other rental car contracts

Other photo developments

mobile phone, charging cable, music
or Filmflat, mobile phone spare parts
Rent navigation device, rent
child seat
Photo album, photo glue

Cell Phone Insurance

Hotel accommodation

photo book printing,
posters, calendars

E-MAIL ADVERTISING ACCORDING TO SECTION 7 PAR. 3 UWG PERMITTED

123

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Annex Tables to Article 1.9 "Technical-organizational data protection

The individual categories are defined according to DIN EN 62676-4 (https://www.din.de/de/service-fuer-anwender/din-term).
defined as follows:
Monitor

Allows you to view count, orientation
and speed of human movements
over a large area, provided their application
is known to the operator.

Allows the operator to be reliable and easy
determine whether any target, e.g. B. a person,
is present or not.
Allows characteristic details of in-
divide, such as g. conspicuous clothing, while
a view of activities in the environment of a
if granted.
Allows the operator to recognize an in-
individuals.

Enables the unequivocal identification of an individual
viduums.
Enables even with difficult contrast conditions
the unequivocal identification of an individual.

detect

Watch

Recognize

Identify

Check over

124

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

 

Results of the Hearing

the state representative for data protection and

Freedom of information Baden-Württemberg
from June 28, 2019 at the IHK Stuttgart

to the

Evaluation of the GDPR

-

"If it doesn't make sense, then it's not privacy."

- For practical data protection in Baden-Württemberg -

 

 

125

1

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

contents
 

Foreword ................................................ .................................................. ............................................ 3
1. Obligations to provide information, information and transparency ........................................ ............................ 5
Solution approaches .................................................. .................................................. ....................... 6
2. Processing directory ................................................ .................................................. ............... 7
Solution approaches .................................................. .................................................. ....................... 7
3. Obligation to appoint data protection officers................................................. ............................. 8th
Solution approaches .................................................. .................................................. ....................... 9
5. Manufacturer's liability - "privacy by design" ............................................ ....................................... 10
Solution approaches .................................................. .................................................. ....................... 11
5. Ambiguities in the joint responsibility, especially in the "social media" area
 .................................................. .................................................. .................................................. ..... 12
Solution approaches .................................................. .................................................. ....................... 12
Conclusion ................................................. .................................................. ................................................ 14

 

 

 

126

2

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

foreword
 

Since May 25, 2018, he has been the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information
Baden-Württemberg (LfDI BW) legally obliged to comply with the regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural
persons in the processing of personal data, on the free movement of data and on
Repeal of Directive 95/46/EG, in short: the General Data Protection Regulation - DS-GVO in Baden-
Württemberg and to advise those responsible in the state.

Art. 97 para. 1 DS-GVO provides that the EU Commission must inform the EU Parliament and the Council by
25 May 2020 submitting a report on the assessment and review of the GDPR. Article 97 paragraph 3
DS-GVO gives the Commission the right to obtain information from the
request supervisory authorities. The LfDI Baden-Württemberg also wants to do this
Assessments, which are based on the previous practical experience of its independent supreme
State authority results, give notice and takes the opportunity to make suggestions
to submit an evaluation of the GDPR.

- DSK) has teamed up with

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments
(Privacy Conference
their “Experience report of the independent
Data protection supervisory authorities" from November 06, 2019, which was issued by the LfDI Baden-Württemberg
was supported, already with the one from their experience with the application of the GDPR
resulting proposed changes to the European Data Protection Board. The
The LfDI Baden-
Württemberg inside.

The perspective of the supervisory authorities is certainly important and helpful for the EU Commission - not
little important, however, are the experiences that those responsible and those applying the DS-
have collected GMOs in Baden-Württemberg – literally on their own bodies. About this one
To take experiences into account, the LfDI Baden-Württemberg held a hearing on June 28, 2019
under the banner "#DSGVO works (?) - 1 year GDPR - practical experience and evaluation" in
cooperation with the
Chamber of Industry and Commerce in the Stuttgart region. to
Invited keynote speeches were representatives from supervisory authorities, authorities, business, science,
Lawyers, associations and data processors. In a specially set up e-mail
Letters from all parts of the country were also received in the mailbox throughout the year
collected and evaluated - also from this "low-threshold" possibility, criticism and
Numerous institutions such as associations and clubs have suggestions for the GDPR to submit, but
many private individuals also made use of it.

The circle of those responsible in Baden-Württemberg is only partially in line with the national average
comparable. According to the Baden-Württemberg Ministry of Economics and Finance
small and medium-sized companies, for example, every second euro in sales
in the country and
employ two thirds of the employees subject to social security contributions. The middle class is with it
the backbone of the economy in Baden-Württemberg - and makes a decisive contribution
economic development. Also committed to a report by the Ministry of
Social affairs and integration in Baden-Württemberg According to almost every second Baden-Württemberger in
volunteer in clubs and associations in their free time: over 48 percent of citizens

 

3

127

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

citizens do this. This makes Baden-Württemberg the number one nationwide. This also results
very own, specific challenges and concerns for practical data protection.
These country-specific findings should - in addition to the experience report of the DSK - make a contribution
for the evaluation of the GDPR by the European legislator.

Overall, it has been shown that those responsible in Baden-Württemberg are in many areas
want solutions that are more suitable for everyday use and some regulations only deal heavily with data processing
Small business activities or volunteer work are applicable. In the foreground
there are above all questions about a possible relief in the information, transparency and
Obligations to provide information, but also in questions of joint responsibility and
Order data processing. Despite numerous samples and practical guides from my department and
There still seems to be a certain degree of legal uncertainty among the other supervisory authorities
to be responsible. Contrary to expectations, there were concerns about sanctions – at least
under the practice in Baden-Württemberg - not highlighted as a priority. This may not last
due to the fact that in Baden-Württemberg it was repeatedly made clear that advice
Punishment goes - and that many responsible persons are on the way to a data protection compliant
have done processing. According to a DIHK survey, around 75% of the companies in the state stated that
to have (at least partially) implemented the GDPR. My experiences with it are in
Overall congruent.

Data protection supervision in Baden-Württemberg is based on the principle "If it doesn't make sense
then it is not data protection". The present report is also intended to meet this objective
be understood. It reflects the voices from the country, which my department contributes
in their day-to-day work and throughout the evaluation process. This
The report is a compilation of the experiences and suggestions of those responsible and
affected in the country. As a supervisory authority, we see it as our duty, as does the European level
to make those voices heard

 

 

dr Stefan Brink

The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Baden-Württemberg

 

 

 

 

128

4

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

1. Information, disclosure and transparency obligations
 
The DS-GVO brings obligations that affect small clubs as well as corporations like Apple,
Amazon, Google, Microsoft or Facebook. Including numerous obligations, which the
previously unknown to federal legislation. The LfDI Baden-Württemberg receives numerous concerned
Inquiries and complaints from clubs that feel overwhelmed or threats of sanctions
fear of misconduct. Advice alone is not enough for the clubs in the country, it will be
actual relief required. Clubs and small businesses can be in contrast to
larger companies often cannot afford external experts.

Many small and medium-sized businesses and volunteers have in practice significant
Difficulties in comprehensively fulfilling the statutory information requirements. It applies to
avoid that volunteering in particular becomes a liability risk for those responsible
becomes. At the same time, compliance with the level of data protection must be in the interests of all citizens
citizens are guaranteed. Here must be used in the course of the application of the GDPR
knowledge gained can be found in a practicable and meaningful way in the long term.
 
in the context of
Especially for small companies, whose data processing is mainly
Customer relations takes place, seems to fulfill the
Information obligations often with
associated with a disproportionate amount of effort or simply not realizable. in the
Within the framework of company-customer relationships, the commissioning customer is often faced with many of the
data subject to information is already known. For this purpose
however rarely for example the
legal basis for data processing. It seems questionable, however, whether this applies to everyone
placing the order is actually of interest. At this point, those affected often complain about a
unwanted flood of information. It would be worth considering whether taking into account the risk-based
Approach the assignment, for example
less risky
Data processing should only be subject to lighter regulations.

of a craft business

The principle of "one size fits all" works particularly well with the information and transparency obligations
not in practice. One consideration would therefore be whether for controllers whose core activity is not the
Data processing is, exceptions could be created. Differences are in everyday life too
clearly recognizable where there is already a lot of information in the context of business relationships
are available and there is a certain level of equality between those involved. With many contractual or
contractual relationships, data protection requirements are often seen as a bureaucratic burden
seen added value.

Information obligations must be "easily accessible". This should
however, just none
Excess information arise, which tempts to no longer use the information at all
perceive as the distinction between essential information and those that are not
are primarily of interest is difficult. In individual cases, this can lead to a lack of rather than to
promoting transparency. This development must be counteracted.

However, general exceptions to the duties of those responsible always harbor the danger of the goal
contrary to the rule itself. Any facilitating change would therefore have to be on it
Care should be taken to draw the boundaries so clearly that the actual target audience is the larger
data-processing companies or companies with data-processing core activities
may fall under the exemptions.

 

5

129

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

The obligation to provide information according to Art. 15 DS-GVO often puts those responsible before the big ones
Challenges. In part, a perversion of the right to information as an instrument of
"Vigilante" reports. Actually are - especially in exchange with public authorities, but also
in our own work as a reporting body - again and again questions of interpretation, above all
met on the right to copy. Here it is unclear how far this goes and whether the concept of
"Copy" is accompanied by a right to be handed over in paper form. The distinction between
the "information about this personal data" according to paragraph 1 sentence 1, the information about "the
Categories of personal data that are processed" according to paragraph 1 sentence 1 lit. b and the "Copy
of personal data "according to paragraph 3 sentence 1 falls responsible both in the public and
equally difficult in the non-public area.

solutions
 

 Equivalence of the exemptions of Art. 13 and 14 GDPR
 Raising or differentiating the risk level in Art. 13 and 14 GDPR
 Exceptions to information obligations, for example for data processing

privileged purposes, in favor of companies whose data processing is not purpose
of the business activity or in favor of the secrecy interests of the
responsible

 Introduction of a 250-person limit (similar to Art. 30 Para. 5 GDPR) for

information requirements

 Introduction of definitions and differentiation of the obligations of micro-enterprises and

small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs),
for example following the recommendation of the Commission of 6 May 2003 regarding the definition
micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (Ref. K(2003) 1422)

 Deletion of the information requirements arising “at the time of collection” for

certain case scenarios

 Admission of the so-called media discontinuity for low-risk case constellations and legal ones

Standardization of the necessary information in a two-stage process

 Modification of deadlines for providing information in day-to-day operations under

Taking into account the purpose of the regulations on information obligations

 Standardization of privacy statements on websites
 The "necessity" in the information requirements of the "specific circumstances"

dependent in order to be able to deal with everyday situations

 Clarification that specifying a category of recipients is also sufficient if

the person responsible knows the recipient specifically

 Clarification of the relationship between transparency obligations and operational and

trade secrets

 Limitation of the right to information, for example via an objection of proportionality,

further sharpening of the objection to abuse Art. 12 Para. 5 S. 2 "in the case of obvious
unfounded requests", conceptual clarification or deletion Right to "copy"
 

 

 

130

6

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

2. Processing record
 
The creation of the register of processing activities provides for small and medium-sized
companies often present a difficult challenge to overcome.

With Art. 30 Para. 5 DS-GVO, the GDPR holds an exception to the obligation
Companies or institutions that employ fewer than 250 people, provided that the
processing carried out by them does not pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of the
data subjects, the processing is not occasional or not
Processing of special data categories according to Article 9 DS-GVO or the processing of
personal data on criminal convictions and offenses within the meaning of Art. 10
GDPR includes.

In practice, however, this exemption is as good as it gets for small and medium-sized companies
never relevant. The counter-exceptions to this are so far-reaching that hardly any company from
benefited from this exception. Employing a little less than 250 people is one
only occasional processing of personal data is hardly possible. Any business that
employees, inevitably processes at least their data to carry out the
employment relationship - also health data within the framework of absence management or the
Religious affiliation in the context of tax administration. The exception fails at the latest
"occasional" processing in the sense of "frequency". This should not be the legislative objective
have been. The only way to counteract this undesirable consequence is this
Restriction of the counter-exception of Art. 30 Para. 5 DS-GVO. In this “unsuccessful
Return exemption regulation" is seen as an urgent need for adjustment.

The risk-based approach actually intended does not apply here. "One size fits all" seems
not working here either. It would be understandable for those responsible if, for example
would be geared more towards a data-processing core activity and for other controllers
lower requirements would apply, e.g. in business relationships. Here would be one
Differentiation on the basis of the core activity take more account of the actual aim of the regulation.
In return, the threshold for the number of employees could be lowered.

solutions
 

 Replacement of the frequency requirement of Art. 30 Para. 5 DS-GVO by switching to

Data processing as a core activity of the company (e.g. similar to Art. 37 Para. 1
lit. b GDPR)

 Creation of privileged processing categories, for example for business relationships
 Sensitive categories of personal data according to Art. 9 GDPR as the only exception
 Increasing the risk level

 

 

 

 

7

131

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

3. Obligation to appoint data protection officers
 
The call for the abolition of the obligation to designate data protection officers is probably nationwide
heard most often. The overall benefit of the obligation to designate and the obligation to report to the
Data protection regulators are often questioned, especially when it comes to smaller clubs
or company goes.

The goal of harmonization of law at European level is often not achieved here
viewed. Wide opening clauses are criticized, different application of the law can up to
lead to competitive disadvantages. Here, too, the risk-based approach is often strengthened
approach, facilitating low-risk data processing and focusing on quality
and quantity of data processing required.

Since the national legislature raised the personal limit in the Federal Data Protection Act of
turned ten into twenty, the topic became quieter at first. However, will
those responsible soon realize that a lack of a designation or reporting obligation does not apply to them
relieved of their duties as data protection officer.

In this discussion, it should be borne in mind that the data protection officers are responsible for a competent
provide advice on data protection law in order to avoid data protection violations in advance and
last but not least, to keep the risk of sanctions low. It is often forgotten that even if the
obligation to designate, the obligations under data protection law remain in place, internal advice and
however, the acquired expertise is lost. A cessation would be perceived as a relief in the short term
be, however, when the next data protection question arises, a
There is no internal possibility of recourse and the LfDI could take care of all individual cases
Clubs in Baden-Württemberg cannot guarantee this even with massive increases in staff.

is also not an end in itself. The basic
The obligation to report to the supervisory authority
Abolition of the reporting obligation of the data protection officer would control the
regulators
difficult in this area. The obligation to report also comes a
self-control function - also with regard to the development of a data protection organization. A
Data protection officer ensures the protection of the rights of employees and citizens, their
data are processed. Data protection officers offer the opportunity to spread know-how without
to be dependent on service providers who work more on a flat-rate basis.

According to the risk-based approach, which is also the basis of the provisions of Art. 37 et seq. GDPR
a data protection officer only has to be appointed if this is due to the risk
is required. The determination of the risk, however, is based on rather rigid assumptions
made dependent. The risk-based approach could certainly be given greater weight here
will.

Above all, Bavaria has passed the registration obligation for amateur sports clubs, music bands and others
voluntary commitment supported clubs abolished. Should this prove to be compatible with
German and European data protection law should be considered here
legal clarification of such possibilities
to be included in the legal text in order to
bring about Europe-wide relief. However, ways would have to be found to
advice on compliance with the existing obligations could still be guaranteed,
for example by setting up a central advice center with the appropriate equipment.

8th

 

132

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

solutions
 

 Exceptional rules for non-commercial associations that work exclusively on a voluntary basis
 Derogations for micro-enterprises, combined with an appropriate one

legal definition

 Alignment of the obligation to order in the public and non-public area,

instead, differentiation of obligations based on company size or industry

 Establishment of a central advice center for those who are exempt from the obligation to order

responsible
 

 

 

 

9

133

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

5. Manufacturer liability - "privacy by design"
 

With privacy by design / privacy by default, the GDPR sets out principles that are aimed at manufacturers
but does not oblige manufacturers as such. Manufacturers, suppliers,
Importers, sellers, etc. are held accountable, as is the case in product liability law
(ProdHaftG or RL 85/374/EWG) is already the case.

With the term "data protection through technology design" (Privacy by Design), which is defined in Article 25 Para. 1 DS-
GMO is prescribed for the person responsible, in practice the group of addressees turns out to be
not out far enough. Since those responsible do not usually develop software themselves
and in large parts standard and application software from manufacturers or suppliers, in part
even by those with global, national or regional monopoly or at least
market-dominant position, have to obtain and use, this requirement often comes to nothing.
You should therefore also encourage software manufacturers to comply with this privacy policy
Commit to the design principle. In practice, this applies in particular to manufacturers of complex software such as e.g.
B. operating systems, database management systems, standard office packages or
very
special specialist applications.

Operating systems around are on the market only
available in limited numbers, so
Those responsible for servers, desktop computers, notebooks, tablets, smartphones or similar
Operate devices, have to resort to one of those. Usually these are at the time of purchase
already pre-installed by the user. According to the current legal situation, it is the duty of
those responsible, any weak points relevant to data protection law, incorrect configurations
to find and turn off functions, etc., that you consider undesirable. None applies to the manufacturer
obligation to deliver its products without these defects. The situation is similar in everyday situations,
For example, with front door locking systems via smartphone app or other "smart home" applications.
Possibly between the responsible app and the m
in a third country without
appropriate level of data protection) manufacturer data traffic takes place. Uses
If such systems are used, it is itself responsible and must process data
responsible, which it cannot see through. The manufacturer is not effectively available. sets one
A private person who uses such systems in the context of private family activities is a responsible party
i.S.d. DS-GVO already not available. The obligations of the DS-GVO do not affect anyone, so go into
Empty.

The previous legal situation contradicts the approach of "data protection by design" or "by default".
Contrary to recital 78 sentence 4 DS-GVO, manufacturers are in no way encouraged to “the right
to data protection in the development and design of the products, services and applications
take into account and ensure, with due regard to the state of the art,
that controllers and processors are able to meet their data protection obligations
to comply". This not only leaves significant gaps
in the field of protection
personal data, but there is a potentiation of technical and
bureaucratic effort in the attempt to eliminate deficiencies in a decentralized manner that are caused centrally
will. This burdens all controllers and processors, with SMEs disproportionately
be charged.

 

134

10

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

The legal situation also contradicts that which has been harmonized via Directive 85/374/EEC
product liability law. According to this, manufacturers, importers, suppliers, etc. are liable for damage caused by
their products are created. This legal situation, which has already been harmonised, should be placed in the area of protection
personal data to be transferred. For products relevant to data protection law
therefore the manufacturer should also be held responsible.

Going beyond the position of the DSK, the LfDI Baden-Württemberg takes the view that
the enforcement of a legal situation adapted as described would only be possible if the
Data protection supervisory authorities also to monitor compliance with data protection at manufacturers,
Importers, suppliers, etc. would be authorized.

solutions

 Insertion of a manufacturer definition based on the product liability guideline in the

general definitions and inclusion in all responsible person duties

in the obligations to cooperate with the supervisory authorities and in the
Competence, task and authority standards of the supervisory authorities as well as in the
Possibilities of sanctions for the purpose of effective legal enforcement

such as



 

 

 

11

135

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

5. Ambiguities in the joint responsibility,
especially in the "social media" area
 

The entry into force of the DS-GVO has in particular the operation of websites and the use
caused massive uncertainty by social media.

Questions about joint responsibility according to Art. 26 DS-GVO and the delimitation to
Order data processing according to Art. 28 DS-GVO is the result. Frequently, in case of rejection
processing on behalf of a joint responsibility, but this regularly
not available.

A survey by my authority in the municipalities in Baden-Württemberg has the subject
“Online Usage Data Sharing” revealed that almost every municipality has a website and
more than half of them incorporate content or elements from third parties (e.g. Google/Facebook) into the site
involves. This often has the consequence that the entire usage behavior of website visitors
passed on to third parties without any apparent legal basis.

In other constellations, consent is used as the legal basis. the actual
In practice, the aim of user protection does not seem to be achieved by consent buttons and banners
but, on the contrary, tends to lead to defensive reactions. With so-called "tracking" or
"Targeting" on websites by third-party tools or web analysis tools often poses the
Question about the legal basis and the fulfillment of the information obligations.

Especially when operating pages on social media, according to the latest decisions of the
ECJ to categorize as joint responsibility for the site operators the question of how
they are to realize the resulting obligations. In practice, there is often
Owner does not have the opportunity to influence the joint data processing and purpose
and resources, let alone make this transparent. Even if the possibility
exists, the jointly responsible persons within the framework of Art. 26 without further assistance
Supervisory authority - such as through our "Contract model for an agreement according to Art.
26 DS-GVO" - it is not clear which essential contents are to be defined, so that a large number
of insufficient agreements and those affected have clarity about the correct one
Contact person is missing. The regulation of Art. 26 GDPR is often described as deficient. It will
There is also a need for clarification with regard to the transparency requirements and the legal relationship
of those responsible seen each other.

solutions

 Clearer demarcation criteria between joint responsibility according to Art. 26 DS-

GVO and order data processing according to Art. 28 DS-GVO

 Clarification to the effect that the fulfilled facts of a common

Responsibility no legal basis for the data exchange between the parties involved
responsible

 Orientation of the right of the data subject based on the organizational obligation and limitation of

range of joint liability to an adequate extent

 

136

12

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

 

 

 Clarification that a shared responsibility for an entire application or

also exist for an entire project, but also only a part of it
entire processing system

 Clarification of when joint responsibility can exist, for example

o if two or more responsible persons decide which persons are involved in the

are involved in data processing and have access to the data,

o which categories of personal data should be collected,
o how the personal data should be collected,
o on what legal basis the data processing is carried out

target,

o which technical and organizational measures should be taken,
o when personal data will be deleted;
o give rise to data collection, or
o in the case of joint processing of personal data, your own individual

follow goals

 Clarification that Joint Controllers will regularly review their

agree on mutual obligations

 Standardization of a regulation similar to order processing to the essential ones

contents of an agreement on joint responsibility

 Promotion of further guidelines at European level
 

 

13

137

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix

Conclusion
 

Despite all the criticism, one must not forget the advantages that the new data protection law offers. One has
now, especially in relation to other economic areas, a uniform European one
Instrument. Civil rights have clearly been strengthened as a result. So the GDPR is a
Successful model - with potential for improvement.

For its task, the European Commission needs the further development of data protection law
all experiences from the application of the GDPR; not just from a regulatory perspective, but
full. We make a contribution to this.

The LfDI is aware of the fact that the chances of actual changes in the law
EU level after the long negotiations when the GDPR came about and the current ones
Experiences from the negotiations on the ePrivacy Regulation are rather limited. Nevertheless
we see it as our task to continue to monitor the application of the GDPR on site and
an open ear for the concerns and problems of those responsible in Baden-Württemberg
- and the knowledge gained in this way to the legislators in the state, in the federal government and in Europe
to carry on.

138

14

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix Index
A
Accreditation 8
Destruction of files/data carriers 32
Document shredding 98
Outpatient nursing service 78
doctor's offices 20
Processor 97
Order processing 95
Request for information 28
Right to information 25
B
Powers of the supervisory authorities and sanction practice 8
Employee data protection 95
Data subject rights 26, 28, 64, 68, 81, 91, 120
Body cams 17
Credit check 102
Fine 70, 115
fines 33
BvD 16
D
Data protection by design 8
Breaches 8, 20
Privacy notice 106
Service agreement on the use of information technology 88
direct mail 8
E
self-promotion 24
Consent 106
email 77
Email promotion 23
Emotet 29
Eurodac 48
European Data Protection Board (EDPB) 37
European Data Protection Board 36
f
Telecommunications secrecy 87
remote maintenance 30
Cells 47
G
Money Laundering Act 102
health 108
Sweepstakes 107

139

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - Annex H
Home nursing 77
House manager 101
property management 99
Home supervisors 80
I
Information obligations 81
Information and transparency obligations 7
J
Job Center 77
Youth Welfare Office 77
K
Day care centers 89
control visit 17
Ministry of Culture 90
Customer rating 24
artificial intelligence 8
M
malware 28
messenger services 15
N
Rules of Use 87
P
Parking surveillance 96
ID card copy 101
Phishing 28
police 17
Pre recording 18
Private internet or e-mail use 87
R
Right to information and a copy 28
tour operator 108
S
school 90
School information technology 87
School law 87
social media 37
Social worker 77
T
Technical and organizational data protection 20, 28, 124

140

LfDI BW - 35th activity report 2019 - Appendix U
poll 10
Unfair competition (UWG) 23
V
accountability 97
Connected vehicles 37
Insurance company 103
Administrative regulation on data protection in public schools 90
video surveillance 35
W
Advertising contradiction 25
Advertisement 23, 123
Condominium association 99, 101
Wound manager 77
Z
earmarking 8

141

LfDI BW - 35th Activity Report 2019 - Appendix