
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    01/11/2019
                                4000 student workshops The Ministry of Consumer Protection and the State Data Protection Commissioner are increasingly promoting internet skills in elementary schools ©
                            LfDI How do I surf the Internet safely? What is the Internet? Can you believe what you find there? And what can a smartphone or tablet actually do? These and other questions were the focus of the 4,000 student workshop on data protection and media skills with primary school students at the Martinus School in Mainz. Secretary of State for Consumers Dr. Christiane Rohleder and Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI), attended the workshop and discussed with the students.
"A solid basic digital education is one of the prerequisites for making a vibrant democracy possible in an information society," says Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann It goes without saying that it is therefore essential that media skills are taught as early as possible in school.”
State Secretary Rohleder emphasized: “It is not enough for children and young people to be able to use the internet and digital services, they also need media skills. The workshops encourage critical use - a MUST in an increasingly digital society! The children and young people learn very concretely for their everyday life. This includes, for example, that they are only allowed to post pictures of others if they have asked beforehand.” Rohleder added: “Pedagogically trained data protection experts come directly to the lessons. True to the motto: First-hand data protection.”
Since the end of 2010, the State Commissioner for Data Protection has been offering schools in Rhineland-Palatinate, in cooperation with the Ministry of Consumer Protection and the Ministry of Education, free school workshops on data protection issues that directly affect schoolchildren in their everyday media work. Because elementary school students are now accessing digital devices and services earlier and more frequently, the offer for this age group has been expanded. Since the beginning of the 2018/2019 school year, elementary schools in Rhineland-Palatinate have had the opportunity to book four-hour workshops from grade 3 free of charge. This is a building block of the diverse media skills at schools in Rhineland-Palatinate, to which the entire state government feels committed. While primary school pupils are to be made aware of the basics, the workshops in secondary school focus on the topics of self-data protection and alternative courses of action. This involves, for example, knowing and using privacy settings or being able to access as many different search engines or communication services as possible. In secondary level 2, upper level and vocational schools, the students also deal with the socio-political dimension of a digitized civil society and possible consequences of BigData analyzes and the Internet of Things, in which apartments, fitness bracelets and many other things are also networked with the Internet .
The first workshop concepts were developed in 2010 and continuously adapted and updated. A media educator from medien+bildung.com is available to the LfDI for the didactic concept. Currently, 20 external speakers, who are trained by the LfDI and equipped with special teaching materials, lead through the workshops.
“The workshop series developed in Rhineland-Palatinate is a successful model that has since been adopted by other federal states. I am pleased that in the past 4,000 workshops, more than 100,000 schoolchildren in Rhineland-Palatinate have been able to learn about data protection and the value of informational self-determination," says State Commissioner Prof. Kugelmann. “Experience shows that this contributes to a more conscious and confident use of digital services. However, we want to push the anchoring of data protection in media education and media education in order to do justice to our legal mandate to raise awareness of the citizens of the state," he emphasized. "In order to reach even more people and also parents, specialist lectures are now also being offered in family education centers and, starting this year, parents' evenings in day-care centers," added Rohleder.
The Rhineland-Palatinate Ministry of Consumer Protection creates the financial basis for the student workshops on data protection. In 2019 and 2020, the ministry will provide 103,600 euros per year. The Ministry thus continues to support the workshops at a high level. The offer is therefore free of charge for schools.
Further information:
Press release from the supervisory authorities and the BvD
                                return
                            



