1/9

936-031219
Procedure No.: PS/00424/2019

RESOLUTION R/00668/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00424/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Officer to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 29, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

972-211119

Procedure No.: PS/00424/2019

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data, and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On February 21, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which it makes a claim against VODAFONE ESPAÑA,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (hereinafter, the claimed).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

SECOND: In view of the foregoing, there are indications of a possible
breach of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation
of Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), which has motivated the opening of the
file E/04041/2019.

In accordance with the provisions of article 65 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(LOPDGDD hereinafter), the claim was transferred to the person in charge or to the Delegate
of Data Protection that in his case would have designated, requiring him to send
to this Agency the requested information and documentation. This requirement
of information was not answered in time. The claim was admitted for processing
date July 31, 2019.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of the RGPD, and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the aforementioned LOPDGDD.

Within the framework of investigation actions E/07681/2019, it was sent to the
claimed a request for information, related to the claim outlined in the
first section, so that within ten working days, it could present before this
Agency the information and documentation indicated therein. The requirement was
registered departure on September 17, 2019 with number 065953/2019.

FOURTH: The request for information, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected by the
responsible on September 18, 2019, as stated in the certificate of
Notific@ that works in the file.

Regarding the required information, the person in charge has not sent a response

any to this Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FIFTH: Based on the foregoing, the respondent has not provided the

information required by the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In accordance with the evidence available in this
moment of agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what
result of the instruction, it is considered that the respondent has not procured to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection the information that required.

With the indicated conduct of the defendant, the power of investigation that the
Article 58.1 of the RGPD confers on the control authorities, in this case, the AEPD,
has been hampered.

Therefore, the facts described in the “Facts” section are considered
constituting an infraction, attributable to the defendant, for violation of article
58.1 of the RGPD, which provides that each control authority will have, among its
investigative powers:

“a) order the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the person in charge or the person in charge, who facilitate any
information required for the performance of its functions; b) carry out
investigations in the form of data protection audits; c) carry out
a review of the certifications issued under article 42, paragraph
7; d) notify the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment of the alleged
violations of this Regulation; e) obtain from the controller and the
in charge of the treatment access to all personal data and to all the
information necessary for the exercise of its functions; f) gain access to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

all premises of the controller and processor, including
any equipment and means of data processing, in accordance with the
Procedural law of the Union or of the Member States.”

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this
moment of agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what
result of the investigation, it is considered that the exposed facts could be
constituting an infringement, attributable to the defendant.

This infringement is typified in article 83.5.e) of the RGPD, which considers as

such: “failure to provide access in breach of article 58, section 1”.

In the same article it is established that this infraction can be sanctioned
with a maximum fine of twenty million euros (€20,000,000) or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to four percent (4%) as a maximum of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following conduct:

“ñ) Not facilitating the access of the personnel of the data protection authority
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority to
the exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the
competent data protection authority.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

IV

Based on the facts set forth, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, it is considered that it corresponds to impute the claimed by
the violation of article 58.1 of the RGPD typified in article 83.5 e) of the RGPD. The
The sanction that should be imposed is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective,
proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD.
Consequently, the sanction to be imposed must be graduated according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

v

Finally, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

In the initial evaluation it is appreciated that no

mitigating, and the following facts have been considered as aggravating:

- Art. 83.2 b) RGPD: the intention or negligence in the infringement. Is about
a company that is not newly created and should have
procedures established for the fulfillment of the obligations that
contemplates the data protection regulations, among them, to respond to
the requirements of the supervisory authority.

- Art. 83.2 k) RGPD: any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the
Losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the infringement. The
claim refers to the particular case of a person, but the
data processing to which it refers, may potentially affect a
very high number of clients of the responsible entity or users of the
service provided by the responsible entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for the infringement of article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in
the art. 83. 5 e) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT B.B.B. and, as secretary, to C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
information requirements issued by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data within the framework of the files with reference code E/04041/2019 and
E/07681/2019; and the accreditation of having practiced its notification.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be 5,000.00 euros, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF
A80907397, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may
acknowledge their responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of
allegations to this initiation agreement; which will lead to a reduction in
20% of the penalty to be imposed in this proceeding. With the
application of this reduction, the penalty would be established at 4,000.00 euros,
resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,000.00 euros and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at 3,000.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above (4,000.00 euros or 3,000.00 euros), you must
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

make it effective by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000
opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the Bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On December 6, 2019, the respondent has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
the sanction in the amount of 3000 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00424/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

