
09.02.2021 | 01/2021
Working together for a better Internet: young people shoot explanatory videos on Safer Internet Day





Raising awareness of online safety and strengthening media skills are the goals of the international Safer Internet Day (February 9). Under the heading "Together for a better Internet", students of the Strittmatter-Gymnasium Gransee have created short videos that are intended to encourage young people in particular to think. The project was supported by the Ministry for Social Affairs, Health, Integration and Consumer Protection, the state data protection officer, the Brandenburg Digital Agency (DABB), the Berlin-Brandenburg Media Authority and the Babelsberg Media Innovation Center (MIZ).
In preparation for the shooting, the MIZ offered a workshop on home producing and provided support with post-production. From the idea to the screenplay to implementation, the young people were able to work out everything themselves and translate their own questions, observations and experiences into small films. One film shows an application situation in which the uploaded party photos have a disadvantageous effect on the applicant, in a second film fake news is caused by a misunderstanding, the third video shows how important data protection and cookie settings are when surfing the net, because the young protagonist has trouble explaining herself because she receives advertisements for pregnancy tests and baby food.
Ursula Nonnemacher, Minister for Consumer Protection: "Without teaching, the young people themselves become ambassadors for the important topic of data protection on the Internet: the Internet does not forget and a quick click, a like or a careless selfie quickly becomes a problem. I wish I am pleased that these great videos are seen by many young people, but also by all Brandenburgers, and that we can use them to raise awareness a little bit more about the issues of data protection and better use of the internet."
Dagmar Hartge, state data protection officer: "The dedicated questions from the young people showed me that they are quite critical on the Internet and in social media. The joint video project is intended to strengthen this approach. It uses clear examples to convey which digital traces we leave and which ones Data protection risks can arise as a result. But the young people also clearly demonstrated what young people can do to stay safe online. Their videos deserve a lot of clicks."
Daniela Lehmann, Deputy Managing Director DABB: "Digital consumer competence and personal responsibility are particularly important for young people today. We want to make a contribution to this. The short videos, which are made by young people for young people, ensure a simple transfer of know-how and wise and sensitize this target group in particular to the handling of their photos and personal information on social media and to manipulated, fake messages on the Internet."
In addition to the three game scenes, the young people conducted online interviews in which they talked to the minister and the data protection officer about data protection and security, the correct use of cookies and unsafe websites.
All videos are available on the MSGIV homepage: https://msgiv.brandenburg.de/msgiv/de/themen/ Verbraucherschutz/ Verbraucherpolitik/safer-internet-day/
(This is a joint press release from the Ministry for Social Affairs, Health, Integration and Consumer Protection, the Strittmatter-Gymnasium Gransee, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and the Right to Access Files, the Brandenburg Digital Agency, the Berlin-Brandenburg Media Authority and the Babelsberg Media Innovation Center.)

 

Press release: Together for a better Internet: young people shoot explanatory videos on Safer Internet Day (148.1 KB)



ID number 01/2021
Date09.02.2021
Responsible: Sven Müller, Poststelle@LDA.Brandenburg.de







ID number 01/2021
Date09.02.2021
Responsible: Sven Müller, Poststelle@LDA.Brandenburg.de



