




Press release from the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Mecklenburg-West Pomerania
"Medienguides MV": Parent media project goes into the 2nd round







No.20220811
|
08/11/2022
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

At the beginning of the school year, the second training course for Medienguides MV starts.
Children and young people move about in digital worlds earlier and more naturally: new apps, new games, new technologies. Many parents are unsure how to integrate this media world into everyday family life. Media use in the family often becomes a topic of dispute. In addition to the answers for parents, the Medienguides MV also contain many practical tips and examples.
"Media use and education within families is as individual as each family itself," says Heinz Müller, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. "With our Medienguides MV project, we want to inform, advise and encourage parents to deal specifically with the topic of media use in their own families and to pass on their knowledge to other parents." LfDI M-V) with various projects is an established player and contact person in the commitment to promote media education and digital skills throughout the country.
The Medienguides MV concept is initially aimed at parents with children aged 0-12 and includes a training cycle of two full-day face-to-face events, which can then be individually supplemented by flexible online offers. The topics that the parents deal with in a very practical way include privacy settings and personal rights, the preventive protection of children and young people in online communities, the way to a relaxed use of media in the family or their own experience of the world of games that the young people so fascinated. "As a media guide MV, you will learn how to accompany your child online in an age-appropriate manner, protect against risks and have fun together," says Antje Kaiser, herself a mother and project manager at the LfDI M-V. "But Medienguides MV want even more: to pass on their experiences to families they are friends with, to stimulate discussions, to share new knowledge and perhaps also to encourage and support the discussion of current media topics in the facilities that the children visit," Antje Kaiser continues .
The communication of clear and understandable information as well as many practical examples and tips is a pillar of this project. "In addition, we would like to counteract the perceived insecurity in dealing with digital media in families. There are no prime solutions here. But as long as parents themselves are actively involved in the topic and exchange ideas with each other, I think that's the best way to learn how to deal with the media in the family in a considered and self-determined manner," emphasizes Heinz Müller in conclusion. This year the training will take place all day on two Saturdays and in attendance. “Our experience from the past year has shown that for most parents, two compact events are more compatible with family life. The mutual exchange, which should be the focus of our project, is not neglected either,” says Antje Kaiser. The Medienguides MV app offers parents the opportunity to network with each other after the training, to take part in topic-related online seminars and to access further information material.
The training for the Medienguides MV 2022 will take place on August 27th and September 24th in Wismar. The places for the free training are limited - registration and further information at: https://www.medienguides-mv.de/ Like the nationwide respected youth project Medienscouts MV, this project can only take place in close cooperation with other institutions in the state, who have long been committed to promoting media skills: the State Coordination Office for Addiction Issues M-V (LAKOST), the State Criminal Police Office M-V (LKA M-V), the Counseling Center for Excessive Media Use and Media Addiction of the Addiction Aid M-V, the Heroes Instead of Trolls Project, the Greifswald Computer Game School, the Medienanstalt M-V (MMV). Strengthen your family and pass on your knowledge. Media Guides MV: Parents. Media. Competence.









                Back to overview









