Case number: NAIH / 2019/890

Subject: Partial application
decision
DECISION

Before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
(hereinafter: the Applicant) on 18 January 2019
In proceedings before the Data Protection Authority, the Authority shall take the following decisions:
1. The Authority shall be the Applicant
grant the application and
1.1. finds that the Applicant has not complied with the rights of the Applicant concerned - access
request for the exercise of the right to issue a copy;
1.2. Instructs the applicant, within 15 days of receipt of this Decision, to:
A copy of the public interest announcement of 24 September 2009 shall be provided by the third party concerned by the announcement
information on the parties (notifier and other notified persons)
send it to the Applicant after anonymisation. During anonymization
personal data not known to the Applicant must be made anonymous,
and the indirect information from which the Applicant provides this information
draw conclusions;
1.3. in 1.1. and 1.2. due to the violation established in point 1
in the event of a finding of a data breach, the present shall apply to the determination of the legal consequences
will take the infringement into account as a precedent with greater weight,
gives a warning.
2. The Authority shall request the information of the applicant in the public interest
rejects in part.
The 1.2. to take the measures provided for in point 1 to the Applicant from the time the measure is taken
must be in writing within 8 days of receipt - the supporting evidence (anonymised application
a copy of the application and proof of delivery to the Applicant)
Towards an authority. The 1.2. In the event of failure to comply with the obligation under point (a), the Authority shall order:
implementation of this Decision.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the action brought before the Metropolitan Court in an administrative action
can be challenged. The application shall be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which shall be
forward it to the court together with the case file. Request for a hearing in the action
to be indicated. For those who do not benefit from full personal exemption, the court
the fee for the review procedure is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. The Capital
Legal proceedings are mandatory in proceedings before the General Court.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Facts, antecedents
I.1. In its application received by the Applicant on 17 January 2019, the Applicant is a data protection authority
initiated proceedings. The Applicant has requested an undertaking from the Applicant to:
respond in substance to the content of the report filed against him in 2009. The Applicant

in his application he stated that in his letter of 2 January 2019 the Applicant did not submit his application
has done enough.
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information.
pursuant to Section 60 (1) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act) at the request of the Applicant
NAIH / 2019/890. proceedings were initiated by a data protection authority.
I.2. The Authority called on the Applicant to rectify the deficiencies. In the Applicant 's reply, the
He rectified the shortcomings of his application and confirmed the content of the public interest notification
would like to know, in this regard it has asked the Authority to oblige
Applicant to inform him of the content of the public interest notification.
I.3. The Authority initiated proceedings NAIH / 2019/890/4 on the initiation of the official data protection procedure. number
notified the Applicant in his order and in order to clarify the facts
called for a statement.
I.4. Based on the statements of the Applicant and the Applicant and the attached documents by the Authority
According to the facts established in the letter sent by the Applicant on 3 December 2018 to the a
He requested information from the applicant regarding the disciplinary proceedings conducted in 2009
in the course of the proceedings of whom and on the basis of what content the
disciplinary action and requested information on personal data contained in reports against him
information. In its reply with registration number […], the Applicant informed the Applicant that
a public interest announcement was received in 2009 and 2010, respectively, in which it was personal
the name and place of work of the Applicant shall be the data of the Applicant.
The public interest notification was aimed at the activities of a person other than the Applicant,
in which the Applicant was also involved and other than the Applicant 's name and place of work, a
It also contained information that could be linked to the applicant.
In its reply to the Authority, the Applicant referred to the complaints and was in the public interest
CLKV of 2013 on notifications. (hereinafter: Complaints Act)
and stated that in his view the Applicant's right to information was not
may result in access to the data of the public interest notifier. In view of all this, “the
in its response to the data subject to protect both the data protection and the public interest notifier
informed the data subject taking into account and complying as far as possible with the relevant rules
the full range of personal data processed about him ”.
II. Applicable legal requirements
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
Pursuant to Article 2 (1), the General Data Protection Regulation applies to personal data
to process data in a partially or fully automated manner and to process them
processing of personal data in a non-automated manner which is one of the
are part of a registration system or are part of a registration system
they want to do.
Pursuant to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data are identified or
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"); identifiable
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular any
ID, such as name, number, location data, online ID, or natural
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of a person

identifiable by one or more relevant factors.
According to Article 4 (10) of the General Data Protection Regulation, a "third party" is one who is not the same
the data subject, the controller, the processor or the persons who are
under the direct control of a data controller or data processor
have been authorized.
According to Article 12 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller does not do so
measures at the request of the data subject without delay, but at the latest at the time of the request
within one month of receipt of the measure
the reasons for the non-compliance and the possibility for the person concerned to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority
authority and may exercise its right to a judicial remedy.
Pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
receive feedback from the data controller regarding the processing of your personal data
is in progress and if such data processing is in progress, you are entitled to personal
access to data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
have been or will be communicated, including in particular to third country consignees, and
international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, failing that
possible criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or limitation of the handling of such personal data
against data processing;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available sources
information;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
comprehensible information on the significance of such data processing and the
the expected consequences for the data subject.
According to Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is the data controller
provide the data subject with a copy of the personal data The affected
for additional copies requested by the controller, the controller shall be reasonable on the basis of administrative costs
may charge a fee. If the application was submitted by electronic means, the
information should be provided in a widely used electronic form,
unless the person concerned requests otherwise.
Pursuant to Article 15 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data referred to in
the right to request a copy shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.
Pursuant to Article 23 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, you are either the controller or
Union or Member State law applicable to the processor
may limit 12-22. Articles 12 and 34 and Articles 12 to 22. in Article
in accordance with certain rights and obligations
the scope of the rights and obligations set out in Article 5, provided that the restriction respects
the essential content of fundamental rights and freedoms and the protection of
necessary and proportionate action in a democratic society:
(i) the protection of the data subject or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others;

Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2), the general data protection decree is indicated therein
shall apply with the additions provided for in
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject, initiate a data protection authority procedure.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), it was taken in a data protection official proceeding
In its decision, the Authority Data management specified in Section 2 (2)
In the context of these operations, the general data protection regulation is defined
may apply legal consequences. Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(b) the supervisory authority condemns the controller or the processor,
if its data processing activities have infringed the provisions of this Regulation or the same
in accordance with the corrective powers of the supervisory authority pursuant to paragraph 1 (d)
the controller to carry out its data processing operations, where appropriate in a specified manner; and
comply with the provisions of this Regulation.
Infotv. 75 / A. § pursuant to Article 83 (2) - (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
exercise the powers set out in paragraph 1 in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
in particular by providing for the law or regulation on the processing of personal data
Requirements laid down in a binding act of the European Union
Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in particular by alerting the controller or processor.
Act CXXV of 2017 on Sanctions for Administrative Infringements. Pursuant to Section 6 of the Act a
with a warning, the authority expresses its disapproval of the administrative
and calls for a new sanction
customer to refrain from committing an administrative offense in the future.
A warning should be applied if the administrative offense is
having regard to the circumstances of the offense, has a low deterrent effect and is sufficiently dissuasive
expected, and if an authority imposes an obligation on the customer and a
does not apply any other sanction in the decision imposing the obligation.
Unless otherwise provided in the General Data Protection Regulation, the application was initiated
CL of the General Administrative Procedure Act 2016 on the data protection authority procedure.
(hereinafter: the Act) shall apply as defined in the Information Act
with differences.
In the proceedings, the Authority shall, in so far as it approves the application, issue a decision
it may apply the legal consequences set out in the General Data Protection Regulation.
According to the General Data Protection Regulation, the Supervisory Authority has the general competence in this area
may apply legal sanctions under Article 58 (2) of the Data Protection Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) and (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority shall
condemn the data controller or the data processor if he or she acts as a data controller
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation or instructs the controller or the
to exercise the data subject's rights under this Regulation
application.
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.

Complaint Pursuant to Section 3 (3), the personal data of the complainant or the public interest notifier
- except as provided in paragraph 4, only on the basis of a complaint or a public interest notification
may be transferred to a body competent to conduct the proceedings initiated if
body is entitled to handle it by law or to transfer its data to the complainant
or the notifier in the public interest has expressly consented. The complainant and the public interest complainant
your personal data may not be disclosed without your express consent.
III. Decisions of the Authority
Pursuant to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, it can be concluded that the data subject
in the public interest notification not only the name and place of employment of the Applicant, but also the
Public interest notification in connection with the applicant
its contents are also considered personal data. Right of access to personal data
information on the data subject and not the document itself with the application
subject of the law concerned
According to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the right of access is not limited to
information on information management. The data controller is required to have effective access
provide the data subject with the personal data processed in such a way that the data subject
provide it with a copy of the information which is the subject of the data processing.
However, since the filing of third-party qualifying activities
in which the Applicant was also involved, ie the document which is the subject of the request for access
both the Applicant and the public interest applicant and other third parties
also contains personal data relating to a person, the general data protection regulation
Pursuant to Article 15 (4), the Applicant's right of access must be restricted because it does not
the part of the requested application which is personal to a third party may be made available to him
their transmission to the Applicant is the information of these persons
would infringe his right to self-determination.
In view of the above, the Applicant violated Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation,
when you did not provide the Applicant with the 2009 filing on your own personal
and only provided information on his name and place of employment,
The personal data of the applicant in the application, the statement made about him
did not provide information.
As the data concerning the public interest notifier is not the personal data of the Applicant, so its
within the framework of the right of access to and access to the
He requested this information only in accordance with the rules of the General Data Protection Regulation
could have forwarded it to him.
Processing of personal data under Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
it is lawful only if and to the extent that one of the pleas in law listed therein exists. THE
the transfer of personal data of a public interest notifier in this case is subject to general data protection
in none of the cases referred to in Article 6 (1) of this Regulation. The data subject is in the public interest
did not consent to its transmission (thus it does not exist in Section 3 (3) of the Complaints Act)
Article 6 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
no other legal basis is available to the notifier in the public interest
to reveal your identity.
In view of all this, the identity and disclosure of the name of the public interest notifier by the Applicant
the refusal did not conflict with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and the Applicant

lawfully denied access to the personal data of the public interest notifier.
ARC. Legal consequences
In the Authority's view, the breach cannot be considered to be in the present case
serious because nearly ten years have passed since the public interest announcement, the disciplinary action initiated under it
procedure was not appealed by the Applicant. At the request of the Applicant, the Applicant shall meet the deadline
answered, however, his answer may be considered incomplete due to the above. The Applicant is correct
recognized that the identity of the person making the public interest notification could not be revealed.
In view of this, in addition to the detection of infringements, the application of the warning is also appropriate,
general data protection can be considered as a legal sanction with sufficient deterrent effect
to take, implement and enforce measures to ensure compliance with this Regulation
instructions.
In view of the above, the Authority granted the request in part for general data protection
pursuant to Article 58 (2) (c) of the Regulation, ordered the Applicant to ensure that
The Applicant has the opportunity to get acquainted with the part of the 2009 application concerning the Applicant,
and issue a copy to the notifier and to the third party concerned by the notification,
as anonymisation of third party information.
CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. Act (hereinafter: Act)
§ 112, § 16 (1) and § 114 (1) against the decision
there is a right of appeal through an administrative lawsuit.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a), the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the decision of the Criminal Court falls within the jurisdiction of the court. § 13
(11), the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. The civilian
CXXX of 2016 on the organization of litigation. Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Section 26 (1)
applicable under Article 72 of the Code of Civil Procedure - in a lawsuit falling within the jurisdiction of the General Court pursuant to § 72
legal representation is mandatory. Kp. According to Section 39 (6) - unless otherwise provided by law
the bringing of the action for the administrative act to take effect
has no suspensive effect.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. law
Pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b), the customer's legal representative for electronic communication
obliged.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 44 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee
the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall exempt the person initiating the proceedings
half.
If the obligated customer does not adequately demonstrate compliance with the required obligations, a
The Authority considers that it has not complied with its obligations within the time allowed. The Ákr. Section 132
if the debtor has not complied with the obligation contained in the final decision of the authority,
the executable. The decision of the Authority With the communication pursuant to Section 82 (1)

it becomes final. The Ákr. Section 133 enforcement - if you are a law
Government decree does not provide otherwise - it is ordered by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. 134.
§ pursuant to the implementation - if by law, government decree or municipal authority
In this case, the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - the state tax authority
implements. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (7) of the Authority,
to perform a specific act, to behave, to tolerate or
with regard to the standstill obligation, the enforcement of the decision shall be:
Authority.
Budapest, May 2019

"
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

