

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of processing of personal data within the file service - loss of building authority file
UOOU-01713/21



The inspection was initiated on the basis of
complaints. The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations set forth by the GDPR and
by Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection
with the processing of personal data within the scope of the construction file service
office. The complainant stated that the building authority had lost the file of the proceedings
on the additional building permit and on the confirmation of the existence of the building. Office this
he verified the fact during the inspection and also carried out an on-site investigation with the aim
rule out systemic misconduct by the city (controlled persons) in file management
services. Submitted internal documentation, demonstration of the use of specific software
and construction management processes to systemic misconduct in the field of security
did not indicate personal data.







However, the office at the loss of a specific
file evaluated that this breach of personal data security should have been the city
documented (obligation given by Article 33, paragraph 5 GDPR) and reported to the Office
(obligation according to Article 33, paragraph 1 GDPR). The controlled person these obligations
did not comply, as it did not consider the loss of the file a breach of security. But to that
The office could not testify, because even at the time of the inspection it was not clear whether it was
file shredded, lost within the building (eg by assignment to another
of the file) or there was manipulation of the file by an unauthorized person who would
she could still be in possession. Loss of a file that also contains personal data,
may in such a case undoubtedly lead to a risk to rights and freedoms
natural persons.










Against inspection findings
the controlled person did not object.





Additional information:


Reporting security breaches
personal data is subject to reporting obligations pursuant to Article 33 of the GDPR (reporting to the Office),
or also according to Article 34 of the GDPR (notification of the data subject). For the reporting obligation
is a decisive risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons:






·


If it is unlikely that it would
the security breach resulted in a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
of persons - the administrator shall document the case of a security breach in accordance with Article 33, paragraph 5
GDPR, it does not notify the Office or the data subject.











·


If a violation is likely
security will result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
– the administrator will document the case of a security breach in accordance with Article 33, paragraph 5 of the GDPR
and will notify the Office in accordance with Article 33, paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of the GDPR.



·


If a violation is likely
security will result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
persons - the administrator shall document the case of a security breach in accordance with Article 33 para.
5 of the GDPR, shall notify the Office pursuant to Article 33, paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of the GDPR and, in addition, shall
notification of the data subject according to Article 34 GDPR.







The GDPR envisages that
all information to be reported to the supervisory authority (Article 33 paragraph 3
GDPR), the controller may not be immediately available (the notification must be
carried out without undue delay and if possible within 72 hours from the moment when
the administrator learned about it). In such a case, the initial notification can be made in the stipulated time
deadline and to gradually supplement the information without further delay (Article 33 paragraph 4 GDPR),
once the administrator has them available based on his next
investigation.


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2022 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection – 1st semester > MUNICIPALITY AND STATE ADMINISTRATION > Inspection of personal data processing within the file service – loss of building office fileView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



