1/18

 File No.: PS/00178/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The General Police Directorate, Moncloa-Aravaca Police Station (in
successive National Police), dated 11/16/2020 filed a claim with the
Spanish Data Protection Agency against the entity MUXERS CONCEPT,
S.L., with NIF B87345369 (hereinafter, the claimed party or MUXERS). The motives
on which the claim is based are as follows:

The National Police gives an account of the complaint made before the Police Group
Judicial by five workers of a restaurant belonging to the claimed party,
for the “finding of an audio recording system in the company locker room”,
hidden in a false ceiling; as well as the proceedings instituted for that reason.

Provides a copy of the complaints outlined, in which the complainants declare having
found in the employee toilet, where their lockers are also located, a
alleged video surveillance camera and sound recorder, plugged in and on
conditions of use (three of the five complaints refer only to a
microphone). They also state that they were not informed about the installation of
These devices.

The National Police also provides a copy of a record, dated 10/27/2020, extended to
proceed to the intervention of a "Microphone with number Air Space AA003", and
photographs showing the location of this device in a false ceiling. According to
It is stated in this Act that the interested person who witnesses the intervention of the Police
Nacional states “that the seized microphone is owned by the company Muxers
Concept, S.L., CIF…”.

On the other hand, on 04/20/2021, a claim was received from A.A.A.
(hereinafter, the complaining party), also directed against the entity MUXERS, in the
stating that on 10/27/2020, in the company of other colleagues,
discovered at his workplace (the same one referred to in the claim of the
National Police) “the placement of audio/video recording cameras in the toilets
corresponding to the changing rooms of the workers”.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the claim received from the National Police was transferred
to the claimed party, so that it could proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in
within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of making available, understanding rejected
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP on 12/20/2020, as stated
in the certificate that works in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, by way of
informative, a copy was sent by mail that was reliably notified in
date 01/18/2021. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to relate
electronically with the Administration, and they were informed of the means of access to
said notifications, reiterating that, in the future, it would be notified exclusively
by electronic means.

On 02/17/2021, this Agency received a response letter provided by the
Respondent, stating the following:

The system, which was installed by the entity Teknometric Biometric Solutions and New
Technologies, S.L. (Teknometric) on 06/20/2018, it has 22 cameras inside
of the premises, 2 exterior cameras on the facade, 1 recording equipment and 4 microphones of
preamplified audio, without any device in the locker room or in the
toilets.

On the existence of a contract by which a third party is commissioned to view and/or
listening to the images and/or audios, informs that there is a contract with the company
“Stop Alarma since the installation corresponds to the video surveillance system”. I know
attached contract and certificate of connection to alarm center and video certificate
check with that company.

In relation to the purpose of the installation of video surveillance equipment, it indicates that
Said purpose is “the access control of people, merchandise… security of the
goods and people”. In this regard, it notes that a written communication was made to
the workers since the opening and the letters signed in agreement by
each worker about the placement, its nature and its location.

Regarding the causes that gave rise to the claim, the respondent adds that the
rarefaction of the labor relationship caused by the reduction of working hours of the
workers and not having collected the amounts owed by the partial ERTE, motivated
that the workers raised the false ceiling and dragged the micro from the office (where if
there is a microphone) and they will take him to the locker room area, not to the bathrooms, and from there all the
controversy.

Additionally, all the workers have criminally denounced the owner of the
company, and there have been dismissals with the corresponding lawsuits in the Court
of the Social.

There are complaints by the company against the aforementioned workers for this

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

incident, which led to the dismissal of some of them, among others the manager who
relinquishing his duties, he admitted the entry of people from outside the premises and
he hatched a whole plan in order to ask for money by all means, as it has been.

Attached are the complaints from the company, the letters reducing the working day, which
explain the real reasons for this matter, which has nothing to do with the
placement of cameras or microphones since the company has never placed them and
appears on the location map from the first day of opening of the premises and the
communication to female workers since August 2018.

Therefore, according to the respondent, it is difficult for the workers to say, as
say they were unaware of the location of the security systems when they were
knowledgeable from the beginning of its existence, purpose, location, etc.

For more details, the lawyer of one of the complainants has asked the company
35,000 euros for this compensation issue for not going to trial.

Everything along the lines that we have said of pressuring the company to compensate the
workers or to reinstate them.

With your response, provide the following relevant documentation:

. Location map of the cameras and microphones (22 interior cameras, 2
exterior cameras, 1 recording equipment, 4 audio microphones
preamps). According to this plan, prepared by Teknometric, the microphones
they are installed at the entrance to the restaurant, in the room where they are located
the tables and bar of the establishment (more than XX tables of different dimensions
-between and six stalls- and 12 bar stalls), in an office and in a room of
small size whose use is not specified in the plan.

. Camera location photos

. Provide a photograph in which the existence of an informative poster can be seen
of the existence of the cameras, located inside the premises.

. Provides an invoice from the installer of the Teknometric cameras, detailing
the installed system, made up of 22 interior cameras, 2 exterior cameras, a recorder
video surveillance and 4 audio outputs with hard disk, and "4 hidden microphones
preamplified”; and technical report issued by this same entity on the
installation of these devices on 06/20/2018. This report indicates
that MUXERS was informed “of the regulations and legality regarding the notice of
their employees before the placement of audio microphones”.

. "Video verification certificate" and "Certificate of connection to alarm center"
issued by the entity Stop Alarmas, S.L.U. The latter includes a section
called "Verification" in which the "Sequential" options are marked,
Image” and “Bidirectional”. The “Audio” option is not checked.

. 10 documents dated 08/20/2018, with the label “Communication to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

worker of the existence of video surveillance cameras whose images can
be used to control labor obligations and duties”. to information
contained in these documents is excerpted in the Fourth Proven Fact.

. Complaint filed with the National Police by the administrator of the entity
MUXERS, for damage caused to the staff locker room on the date
10/27/2020 (“the roof is broken and the microphone cables that were in the
inside hanging”). This document contains the manifestations of the
complainant. Among them, the following:

"That the complainant states that they are microphones, that in the employment contract comes
specified the audio and video recording, and that they themselves have signed”.
“That at 1:20 p.m. another indicative of the National Police comes to
seize the microphone from the locker room, all of which is reflected in a Record of
Intervention of Effects of which they deliver a copy to the complainant”.

THIRD: On 02/22/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim filed by the National Police was admitted for processing.

Similarly, the claim made by the claimant was admitted for processing in
date 05/07/2021.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
question, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

. A request for information was sent to the claimed party, by postal mail
Addressed to the same address where the notification of the outlined transfer was made
in the previous Antecedent, without in this case the notification could be practiced
(it was returned with the indication "unknown").

. The National Police, on 12/03/2021, informed the Inspection Services that
the police report of the Moncloa-Aravaca Police Station, has led to the opening
Preliminary Proceedings No. ***PROCEEDINGS.1, followed up in the Court of Instruction No.
XX of Madrid.

. Requested information from the aforementioned Court of Instruction on the possible
responsibility of the claimed party in the installation of the devices of
audio and video recording in the changing rooms and toilets used by the workers of the
establishment to which the claims refer, no reply was received from
said court during the period of these investigative actions.

Thus, it was agreed to declare the expiration of the aforementioned prior actions of
research and open new research actions, as well as incorporate the
same the documentation that integrates the expired actions.

The response from the Investigating Court was received on 01/26/2022, stating
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

reports that what has been done to date (01/18/2022) in the Procedure
Abbreviated that follows under the number ***DILIGENCIAS.1, "the
responsibility of the entity MUXERS CONCEPT, S.L.”.

FIFTH: On 05/13/2022, by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
You can access the information related to the MUXERS entity in “Axesor” (“Informe
monitor”). (...).

SIXTH: On 05/20/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the MUXERS entity, in accordance with the
provided in articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged violation of article
6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation; and rated as
very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD.

In the opening agreement it was determined that the sanction that could correspond,
attended the existing evidence at the time of opening and without prejudice to what
resulting from the instruction, would amount to a total of 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

The notification of this opening agreement to the claimed party, in which
granted a term to formulate allegations and propose evidence, it was sent by means of the
Electronic Notification Service, although it was not collected by the
claimed within the period of availability.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, with
date 06/09/2022 a new notification attempt was made by post, being
returned the shipment due to an incorrect address, even though it was addressed to the
registered office of the entity that appears in the Mercantile Registry.

Likewise, on 06/23/02022, a document was published in the Official State Gazette
announcement of notification of the opening of proceedings. In said announcement, it is informed
the party complained against about the possibility of obtaining a copy of the opening agreement.

SEVENTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the established rules
in the LPACAP and after the term granted for the formulation of allegations,
has verified that no allegation has been received by the respondent party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

1. the MUXERS entity is responsible for the video surveillance system installed in the
premises in which it carries out its activity on 06/20/2018. It's about a
establishment open to the public dedicated to restoration.

2. The video surveillance system outlined in the First Proven Fact, in addition to
video surveillance cameras, has four audio microphones
preamplified, installed at the entrance to the restaurant, in the room where they are
located the tables and bar of the establishment (more than 30 tables of different
dimensions -between and six seats- and 12 bar seats), in an office and in a
small room whose use is not specified.

This system has a video surveillance recorder and 4 audio outputs with
HDD.

3. The intended purpose of installing this equipment is access control
of people and goods, the safety of goods and people, as well as the
control of labor obligations and duties.

4. At the time of the installation of the video surveillance system, the entity MUXERS
provided its workers with an informative document with the label "Communication to the
worker of the existence of video surveillance cameras whose images can be
used to control labor obligations and duties”. According to these documents,
the party claimed informs the worker who signs it as follows:

“In accordance with Law 5/1999… INFORMS… (name and surname of the worker) of the
recording through video cameras in the internal and external facilities of the company of
which is a treatment responsibility of Muxers Concept, SL in which they remain
stored your personal data, including your image and sound obtained, recorded and
captured through cameras and video cameras, for the following purposes:

I. Surveillance
Internal and external surveillance of the company's facilities..., in order to provide
compliance with the security operation and to prevent risks that affect the security and
protection of people, premises and patrimonial assets as well as to denounce, when
necessary, made before the competent authorities or meet requirements of the
themselves.
   
II. Quality and work performance
Control of the quality and labor performance of the workers as well as verification of the
fulfillment by… (name and surname of the worker) of their obligations and duties
labor.

III. disciplinary sanctions
The images and sound captured by the video surveillance cameras may be used to
the detection by Muxers… of criminal acts or labor offenses included in the agreement

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

collective… as evidence when sanctioning

…the technical instruments used…respect the right to privacy, within the
legitimate exercise of the power of business surveillance.

5. Due to complaints made by restaurant workers, the
The National Police appeared at the MUXERS establishment and drew up a record dated
10/27/2020, extended to proceed with the intervention of a “Microphone with
Air Space numbering AA003”. This document includes some photographs in which
the location of this device is seen in a false ceiling. As stated in these Minutes,
the interested person who, on behalf of MUXERS, witnesses the intervention
of the National Police states “that the seized microphone is property of the
company Muxers Concept, S.L., CIF…”.

In its response to the claim transfer process, MUXERS stated that the
microphone intervened by the National Police was in the office set up in the
establishment.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

Image and voice are personal data

II

The physical image and voice of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, are a
personal data and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In the article
4.2 of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

Images and voice captured by a camera or video camera system are data
of a personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the regulations of
Data Protection.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image and voice
of the workers in the establishment to which the claims refer, whose
ownership corresponds to the claimed party, and of the natural persons who attend
as customers to said establishment, open to the public) carried out through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

denounced video surveillance system is in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

Infringement

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

The permanent installation of a video camera system for reasons of
Security has a legitimate basis in the LOPDGDD, whose explanatory statement indicates:

“Together with these assumptions are included others, such as video surveillance… in which the legality of the
treatment comes from the existence of a public interest, in the terms established in the
article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
 
Regarding the treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the processing of images through camera systems or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
installations.

This same article 22, in its section 8, provides that "The treatment by the
employer of data obtained through camera systems or video cameras
subject to the provisions of article 89 of this organic law.

On the legitimacy for the implementation of video surveillance systems in the field
employment, Royal Legislative Decree 1/1995 of 03/24 is taken into account, approving
the revised text of the Workers' Statute Law (LET), whose article 20.3
points out:

"3. The employer may adopt the measures it deems most appropriate for surveillance and control
to verify the fulfillment by the worker of his labor obligations and duties,
keeping in its adoption and application the consideration due to its dignity and taking into account
account, where appropriate, the real capacity of workers with disabilities.

The surveillance and control measures admitted include the installation of
security cameras, although these systems must always respond at the beginning
of proportionality, that is, the use of video cameras must be proportional to the purpose
pursued, this is to guarantee the security and fulfillment of the obligations and
job duties.

Article 89 of the LOPDPGDD, specifically referring to the "right to privacy
against the use of video surveillance and sound recording devices in the place
of work” and the treatment of personal data obtained with camera systems or
video cameras for the exercise of control functions of workers, allows
that employers can treat the images obtained through systems of
cameras or video cameras for the exercise of control functions of the
workers or public employees provided, respectively, in article 20.3
of the Workers' Statute and in the public function legislation, provided that
These functions are exercised within their legal framework and with the limits inherent to the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

same.

In relation to the recording of sounds, the aforementioned article 89 of the LOPDGDD
sets the following:

"two. In no case will the installation of sound recording systems or
video surveillance in places intended for rest or recreation of workers or
public employees, such as changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and the like.
3. The use of systems similar to those referred to in the previous sections for the
recording of sounds in the workplace will be allowed only when they are relevant
risks to the safety of facilities, assets and people arising from the activity
that is developed in the workplace and always respecting the principle of proportionality,
the minimum intervention and the guarantees provided for in the previous sections. suppression
of the sounds preserved by these recording systems will be made according to what
provided in section 3 of article 22 of this law.”

On the other hand, it is interesting to note that, according to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the
Recording of conversations between workers or between them and customers is not justified
for the verification of the fulfillment by the worker of his obligations or duties.
In Judgment dated 04/10/2000 (2000/98), issued in rec. no. 4015/1996, it
declares the following:

“In this sense, it must be taken into account that the managerial power of the employer,
essential for the smooth running of the productive organization and expressly recognized
in art. 20 LET, attributes to the employer, among other powers, that of adopting the measures that
considers more opportune of vigilance and control to verify the fulfillment of the worker of
their labor obligations (art. 20.3 LET). But this faculty must occur in any case,
as is logical, within due respect for the dignity of the worker, as we expressly
The labor regulations remember it (arts. 4.2.e and 20.3 LET)…

… it should be remembered that the jurisprudence of this Court has repeatedly insisted on the
full effectiveness of the fundamental rights of the worker within the framework of the relationship
employment, since this cannot imply in any way the deprivation of such rights for
those who provide service in productive organizations... Consequently, and as
this Court has also affirmed, the exercise of such rights only admits
limitations or sacrifices to the extent that it operates within an organization
that reflects other constitutionally recognized rights in arts. 38 and 33 EC and that
imposes, according to the assumptions, the necessary adaptability for the exercise of all of them...

For this reason, the premise from which the appealed Judgment starts, consisting of
affirm that the workplace does not constitute by definition a space in which the
right to privacy on the part of the workers, in such a way that the conversations that
keep workers among themselves and with customers in the performance of their work activity
are not covered by art. 18.1 EC and there is no reason why the company cannot
know the content of those, since the aforementioned right is exercised in the field of
worker's private sphere, which in the workplace must be understood as limited to the
places of rest or recreation, changing rooms, toilets or the like, but not those
places where work is carried out...

…Such an affirmation is rejectable, since it cannot be ruled out that also in those
places of the company in which the work activity is carried out may occur
illegitimate interference by the employer in the right to privacy of the
workers, such as the recording of conversations between a worker and a
client, or between the workers themselves, in which issues unrelated to the relationship are addressed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

work that are integrated into what we have called the sphere of development of the
individual (SSTC 231/1988, of December 2, FJ 4 and 197/1991, of October 17, FJ 3, by
all). In short, it will be necessary to attend not only to the place of the workplace where they are installed
by the company audiovisual control systems, but also to other elements of judgment (if
the installation is done or not indiscriminately and massively, if the systems are visible or have
been installed surreptitiously, the real purpose pursued with the installation of such
systems, if there are security reasons, due to the type of activity that takes place in the
work center in question, justifying the implementation of such means of control, etc.)
to elucidate in each specific case whether these means of surveillance and control respect the right
to the privacy of workers. Certainly, the installation of such means in places of
rest or recreation, changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and the like is, a fortiori, harmful
in any case of the right to privacy of workers, without further consideration, for
obvious reasons... But this does not mean that this injury cannot occur in those places
where the work activity is carried out, if any of the exposed circumstances that
allows the business action to be qualified as an illegitimate intrusion into the right to privacy
from the workers. It will therefore be necessary to attend to the concurrent circumstances in the event
specifically to determine whether or not there is a violation of art. 18.1 EC.

…their limitation [of the fundamental rights of the worker] by the powers
business can only derive good from the fact that the very nature of work
contracted implies the restriction of the right (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, and 106/1996, FJ 4), either
an accredited need or business interest, without its mere invocation being sufficient to
sacrificing the fundamental right of the worker (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, 6/1995, FJ 3 and 136/1996,
FJ 7)…

These limitations or modulations must be those that are indispensable and strictly
necessary to satisfy a business interest worthy of guardianship and protection, in a
that if there are other possibilities of satisfying said interest that are less aggressive and affect the
right in question, it will be necessary to use the latter and not the more aggressive and
affecting. It is, in short, the application of the principle of proportionality...

The question to be resolved is, therefore, whether the installation of microphones that allow the recording of
conversations of workers and customers in certain areas... is adjusted in the event
that concerns us to the essential requirements of respect for the right to privacy. To the
In this regard, we must begin by pointing out that it is indisputable that the installation of
capture and recording of sound in two specific areas... it is not without utility for the
business organization, especially if one takes into account that these are two areas in which
significant economic transactions take place. Now, the mere utility
or convenience for the company does not simply legitimize the installation of hearing aids and
recording, given that the company already had other security systems than the
hearing system is intended to complement…

In summary, the implementation of the audition and recording system has not been in this case
in accordance with the principles of proportionality and minimum intervention that govern the modulation
of fundamental rights by the requirements of the interest of the organization
business, because the purpose pursued (to give a plus of security, especially before
possible claims from customers) is disproportionate to the sacrifice that
It implies the right to privacy of workers (and even customers...). This system
allows you to capture private comments, both from customers and workers...,
comments completely unrelated to business interest and therefore irrelevant from the
perspective of control of labor obligations, being able, however, to have
negative consequences for workers who, in any case, will feel constrained
to make any type of personal comment before the conviction that they are going to be
heard and recorded by the company. It is, in short, an illegitimate interference in the
right to privacy enshrined in art. 18.1 CE, since there is no definitive argument that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

Authorize the company to listen to and record private conversations that workers…
keep with each other or with customers.

On the other hand, the processing of personal data is subject to the rest of the
principles of treatment contained in article 5 of the RGPD. We will highlight the
principle of data minimization contained in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD that
provides that personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”.

This means that in a specific treatment only the data can be processed.
timely personal, that come to the case and that are strictly necessary
to fulfill the purpose for which they are processed. The treatment must be adjusted and
proportional to the purpose to which it is directed. The relevance in the treatment of
data must occur both at the time of data collection and in the
subsequent treatment of the same.

In accordance with the above, the processing of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their removal.

The application of the principle of minimization of data to the case examined involves
that the installed camera or video camera system cannot obtain images or
sounds affecting the privacy of employees, resulting disproportionate
capture images or sounds in private spaces, such as changing rooms, lockers or
worker rest areas.
 

IV

Video surveillance obligations

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be achieved by
other means, considering 39 of the RGPD.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a later purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles
12 and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, article 22 of the LOPDGDD provides in relation to video surveillance
a system of “layered information”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

The first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the treatment
(video surveillance), the identity of the person in charge, the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD and where to obtain more information about the
treatment of personal data.

This information will be contained in a device placed in a sufficiently
visible and must be supplied in advance.

Second layer information should be readily available in one place
accessible to the affected party, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc...,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
rest of the elements of article 13 of the RGPD.

4.- Images of public roads cannot be captured, since the treatment of
images in public places, unless there is government authorization, only
It can be carried out by the Security Forces and Bodies.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
installed cameras on facades or inside, it may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public highway.

That is, cameras and video cameras installed for security purposes may not
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for that purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in that case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

Images cannot be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties without the
consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the people who
find.

It is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
changing rooms, lockers or worker rest areas.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, goods or facilities.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

6.- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt the measures of
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood as the accidental or accidental destruction, loss or alteration of
illicit of personal data transmitted, conserved or treated in another way, or the
unauthorized communication or access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:

. the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the RGPD
and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”),
. the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
. the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the
section “Guides and tools”).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

v

administrative offense

The claim is based on the alleged illegality of the video surveillance system installed
by the claimed party in the premises where it develops its business activity, in
related to sound recording.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

In this case, the fact that the claimed party is the owner and
responsible for the reported video surveillance system and, therefore, the person responsible for
the data processing involved in the use of said system. And neither does he
fact that the data processing carried out includes the collection and
storage of personal data relating to the voice of employees and customers.

It is also proven in the actions that said installation is carried out with
security and labor control purposes.

For this reason, on 08/20/2018, the respondent informed the workers
affected, including the complaining party, the installation of the
video surveillance, with capture and recording of images and sound, “for the purpose of
to comply with the security operation and to prevent risks that affect the
safety and protection of people, premises and property” and for the
“control of the quality and labor performance of the workers as well as verification
compliance… with their labor obligations and duties.”

The party complained against does not provide sufficient justification for these data treatments
(sound recording). The claimed party does not take into account the limits set forth in
article 20.3 of the Workers' Statute Law (LET); what is established in the
article 89.3 of the LOPDGDD, which admits the recording of sounds only when
risks are relevant and respecting the principles of proportionality and
minimal intervention; nor the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, already expressed, according to the
which the recording of conversations between workers or between workers and customers is not
justified by verification of compliance by the worker with his obligations or
homework.

The aforementioned article 89 of the LOPDGDD, beyond the prohibition of using these
video surveillance and sound recording systems in “places intended for
rest or recreation of workers or public employees, such as
changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and the like”, expressly and in general,
establishes the submission of such systems to the legal framework and with the inherent limits
to the same, already mentioned above. This implies that it cannot be understood as
legitimate, without further condition, any system that does not include those spaces.

In this case, moreover, it is clear that one of the microphones was installed in the office
used by workers. As has been proven, the system included the
installation of four “hidden” microphones: at the entrance to the restaurant, in the dining room
where the tables and bar of the establishment are located (more than 30 tables of
different dimensions -between and six seats- and 12 bar seats), in an office and in
a small room whose use is not specified in the plan. So,
it turns out that some of these devices could violate the prohibition to install
“sound recording systems… in places intended for rest or
recreation of the workers..., such as changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and
analogues”, established in the aforementioned article 89 of the LOPDGDD.
 
On the other hand, the information provided to the workers refers to the
"power of business surveillance". On this question, concerning the possibilities
regarding the adoption of surveillance measures that attributes to the employer its power

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

direction, it is interesting to highlight some of the aspects declared in the Judgment of the
Constitutional Court dated 04/10/2000, outlined in the Foundation of Law
III:

“…this faculty must occur in any case, as is logical, within due respect for the
dignity of the worker, as the labor regulations expressly remind us (arts. 4.2.e and
20.3 LET)…”.

“It must therefore be rejected… that the conversations that workers have with each other and
with clients in the performance of their work activity are not covered by art.
18.1…”.

“…their limitation [of the fundamental rights of the worker] by the powers
business can only derive good from the fact that the very nature of work
contracted implies the restriction of the right (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, and 106/1996, FJ 4), either
an accredited need or business interest, without its mere invocation being sufficient to
sacrificing the fundamental right of the worker (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, 6/1995, FJ 3 and 136/1996,
FJ 7)…

These limitations or modulations must be those that are indispensable and strictly
necessary…”.

“…the mere utility or convenience for the company does not simply legitimize the installation of the
hearing and recording devices, given that the company already had other
security systems that the hearing system intends to complement…”.

Nor does it explain what the recording of conversations between the
workers, among themselves, between workers and customers, or between the latter among themselves,
in order to prove those circumstances, which does not provide the sole recording of
images.

Likewise, it is interesting to emphasize again that the recording of sounds includes the voice
of clients of the claimed party (two devices installed in the client area,
at the entrance to the restaurant and in the room where the tables and bar are located
establishment), which are unaware of the existence of the microphones.

Consequently, in this case, the capture of the voice is understood to be disproportionate.
of both workers and clients of the claimed party for the function of
intended video surveillance, to control compliance by workers with their
job duties and obligations. Note that voice recording involves
further invasion of privacy.

It is considered that the claimed party carried out data processing without having
legitimate basis, violating the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD, so they could
suppose the commission of an infringement typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which
provides the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section
2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual global turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent to
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

tenor of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of legality of the
treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

SAW

Sanction

Article 58.2 of the RGPD establishes:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(...)
d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;
(...)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article
58.2.d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

With regard to violations of article 6 of the RGPD, based on the facts
exposed, it is considered that the sanction that should be imposed is a fine
administrative.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD and article 76 of the LOPDGDD, regarding the
section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

In this case, the following circumstances are considered aggravating:

. Article 83.2.a) of the RGPD: “a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement,
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation
in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damage and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

harm they have suffered."

. The duration of the infraction, considering that the installation of the devices
voice capture and recording took place in August 2018.

. The number of stakeholders: the alleged infringement affects all workers
and clients of the defendant.

On the other hand, it is estimated that there are mitigating circumstances
following:

. Article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD: “b) The link between the activity of the offender and the
personal data processing”.
The limited connection of the defendant with the performance of treatment of
personal data, considering the activity that it develops.

. Article 83.2.k) of the RGPD: “k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to
the circumstances of the case, such as financial gains or losses
avoided, directly or indirectly, through the infringement”.
The small business status of the Respondent and its volume of business.
(...).

Considering the exposed factors, the valuation reached by the fine for the
Violation of article 6 of the RGPD is 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE MUXERS CONCEPT, S.L., with NIF B87345369, for a
infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, a
fine of 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to MUXERS CONCEPT, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

