 

International Working Group 
on Data Protection 
in Telecommunications 
 
675.57.15 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Working Paper on Wide Area Location Tracking1  

 

64th meeting, 29-30 November 2018 (Queenstown)  

 

 

Scope 
 
1.  The  Working  Group  has  previously  identified  risks  related  to  location  tracking,  adopting 
common position documents on privacy and location information in mobile communications 
services2. 

 
2.  New  applications  have  emerged  in  recent  years,  with  the  potential  for  wide  adoption,  that 
are capable of posing specific new risks to the privacy of individuals. Take, for example, the 
broadcasting  of  location  data  from  devices  installed  in  our  cars,  or  from  the  vehicles 
themselves.  These data can be used to improve road use efficiency, thereby reducing CO2 
emissions, or to improve the safety of drivers and pedestrians.  Similarly, within the broad 
category of “smart city” services, a frequent exchange of data between citizens’ devices and 
a  plurality  of  service  providers  is  envisaged  in  order  to  create  public  benefits,  like  making 
public  services  more  effective  and  cost  efficient.  Many  of  these  applications  rely  on  being 
constantly connected, thus enabling individuals’ movements to be tracked. 

 

3.  This  Working  Paper  examines  the  data  protection  and  privacy  risks  associated  with  large 
scale  collection  of  location  data  in  the  public  interest,  giving  recommendations  for  their 
lawful  implementation  and  on  possible  technical  and  organizational  arrangements  in  order 
to mitigate these risks. 

 

Background 
 
4.  Physical  location  tracking,  namely  the  ability  of  modern  technology  to  follow  individuals’ 
movements  and  keep  a  record  of  them,  is  an  area  where  people’s  real  and  virtual  lives 
meet. Being connected to a service provider from a specific georeferenced place (given, for 

                                                
1 The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada abstains from the adoption of this Working Paper. 
2 Common Position on Privacy and location information in mobile communication services (updated Berlin, 
18./19.11.2004), and Working Paper on Location Tracking from Communications of Mobile Devices (Berlin, 13./14. 
October 2015) 

 

1 

 

instance,  by  the  spatial  coordinates  used  by  the  GPS  embedded  in  the  application),  we 
attach a real, physical dimension (the place where we are) to our virtual sphere (the action 
we are performing while connected). 

 
5.  These streams of location data, being shared at least with the service provider to which we 
are connected and possibly to other third parties, reveal our mobility pattern and offer new 
opportunities  for  predicting  our  next  move,  either  in  the  physical  or  virtual  sphere.  If  our 
locations are known, then not only our past behavior is revealed,  we can also be  directed 
towards specific locations, based on our previous service usage (e.g., to stop at the nearby 
shop where a given item we are searching for online can be found), or on our previous route 
(e.g., to stop at the nearby gasoline station because we are low on fuel). 

 

6.  The  trend  toward  including  predictive  capacity  is  likely  to  continue,  and  the  number  of 
tracking  applications  is  set  to  increase,  due  to  the  many  devices  that  we  carry  and  wear, 
and  to  the  increasing  number  of  objects  capable  of  registering  our  location  history.  In  the 
past  walking,  driving,  riding  a  bicycle  or  jogging  were  activities  with  very  limited  risks  of 
being  tracked.  However,  they  are  now  becoming  increasingly  connected  activities,  and 
being tracked is becoming the norm.  

 

7.  The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications recognizes that 
there  might  be  a  genuine  public  interest  in  discovering  some  patterns  from  mobility  flows 
which can be of broad and collective interest, but this must be balanced with safeguards for 
the rights and freedoms of the involved individuals. 

 

8. 

If no safeguard is in place, the main risk will be the creation of a strong bias: that our being 
guided  (or  forced)  into  doing  certain  things  and  going  certain  places,  based  on  a  service 
provider’s  assumptions  about  our  needs  is  the  best  way  to  meet  them.  This  approach  is 
questionable, at best, reducing or eliminating the opportunities for individuals to make  free 
discoveries. 

 

9.  This  concern  is  exacerbated  by  the  consideration  that  location  tracking  in  many 
circumstances is an undetectable activity. Although we can still, to a limited extent, control 
the  devices  that  we  carry  and  wear,  it  is  not  possible  for  individuals  to  control  who 
eventually has access to that data and what their use will be beyond providing connectivity 
and communication functionalities. There is an inherent lack of people’s capability to control 
the  increasingly  sensors  equipped  active  space  surrounding  them  that  is  very  difficult  to 
mitigate. Traditional data protection safeguards like notice and consent do not easily apply 
in these circumstances. 

 

10.  New  concepts  are  emerging  in  the  data  protection  legal  framework,  in  addition  to  the 
consolidated  principles  of  data  protection,  which  might  prove  much  more  effective  in  this 
context.    These  include  accountability,  or  the  commitment  taken  by  the  data  controller  to 
ensure and demonstrate to external stakeholders (data subjects, data protection authorities) 
full  compliance  with  data  protection  principles  in  practice  and  to  respect  individuals’ 
personal sphere. 

 

2 

 

 

11.  Privacy by design is another relevant tool to engineer the processing operations in such a 
way  that  safeguards for individuals  are  integrated  in  the  processing  itself  from  the  earliest 
stages of the design of a product, application or service. 

 

Personal data 
 
12.  The identifiability of location data is well known3: just a few points in a path are enough to 
single out an individual in a population with a high degree of precision, taking into account 
the  mostly  regular  patterns  of  people’s  mobility.  The  availability  of  other  metadata,  like 
timestamps,  or  of  other  technical  parameters  and  configuration  settings  of  software  and 
applications  increases  the  identifiability  of  location  data.  So  does  the  presence  of  further 
contextual  elements,  like  the  sparsity  of  the  area,  the  daytime  or  a  peculiar  sequence  of 
events.  Finally,  the  availability  of  location  data  from  other  sources,  may  allow  for  the 
combination  of  supposedly  anonymous  location  data  sets  in  a  way  that  renders  them 
identifiable. 

 

13.  Location  data  may,  under  certain  circumstances,  also  reveal  very  sensitive  individuals’ 
attributes,  like  religious  beliefs  (if  one  end  of  a  location  path  is  a  worship  place),  or 
pathologies (if one end of the path is a hospital), especially if recurrent mobility patters can 
be identified in one’s history of movements. 

 

Privacy risks 

 

14.  Location tracking can be a silent operation, and lack of transparency on the identity of the 
data  controller  or  on  the  purpose  of  the  processing  is  a  major  source  of  privacy  risks  for 
individuals.  The  device  owner  may  not  be  aware  that  the  data  emitted  from  his  devices, 
which is being provided for the purpose of being connected, or for getting a service from a 
provider,  can  also  be  collected  over  time  to  record  his  or  her  movements.  Individual 
awareness  is  not  sufficient  to  mitigate  such  risks,  simply  because  in  many  cases  the  only 
way to avoid tracking is to disconnect, or refrain from using a service. 

 

15.  The  reuse  of  data  for  purposes  beyond  the  original  scope,  is  another  privacy  risk, 

threatening full respect of the purpose limitation principle.. 

 

16.  Location data, combined with data from other sources, may extend the tracking beyond line 
of  sight,  over  large  scales  and  for  prolonged  times,  and  can  allow  predicting  the  physical 
location of individuals. This entails risks for individuals not only in their digital sphere, but in 

                                                
3 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymisation Techniques (http://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-
29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp216_en.pdf)  

 

3 

 

their  real  lives,  generating  an  uncomfortable  sense  of  surveillance  or  chilling  effects, 
deterring  individuals  from  participation  in  some  activities  or  use  of  some  products  and 
potentially providing elements for stalking, blackmailing, thefts. 

 

17.  Analysis  of  location  data  may  create  negative  externalities  also  for  other  individuals. 
Inference  on  the  context  where  location  data  were  generated,  or  on  the  way  groups  or 
networks  of  individuals  are  created  may  potentially  put  at  risk  also  other  individuals4,  or 
allowing revealing sensitive areas5.  

 

18.  Lack  of  trust  is  another  privacy  risk  inherent  to  tracking  individuals’  movements.  If 
controllers  are  not  trustworthy,  data  can  be  processed  in  a  non-neutral  way  inducing 
individuals to accomplish specific actions (in their real life sphere or in their digital sphere) 
which  are  more  in  the  interest  of  the  observer  than  the  in  the  interest  of  the  individual 
him/herself. 

 

19.  Forced  adoption  is  another  risk  for  individuals’  freedoms.  Triggering  adoption  of  location 
tracking for purposes of public interest does not equal imposing adoption. Potential benefits 
per se should incentivize citizens, for instance, to adhere freely to smart city applications or 
similar services. 

 

20.  There  is  a  risk  that  organizations  insufficiently  anonymize  location  data  after  they  finish 
legitimate  processing  in  order  to  preserve  their  utility.  This  may  lead  to  processing  of  that 
data  for  incompatible  reasons  although  the  data  or  a  portion  thereof  might  still  be 
identifiable. 

 

Recommendations 
 

Recommendations to Organizations 

 

21.  Organizations contemplating the processing or location for purposes of public interest data 
should ensure that they have an appropriate legal basis, in their respective jurisdiction, for 
any such processing. In this respect, transparency on the purpose and on the way data are 
processed are a necessary prerequisite for the implementation of any valid legal basis. 

 

                                                
4 In a very famous research experiment New York taxi drivers details were extracted from the allegedly 
anonymised datset of taxi routes, made available by the municipality. With some post-processing on other 
metadata (locations and timestamps) and cross check with other available data sources (e.g. the occurrence of 
public events in a certain venue) it was also possible to reveal the identity of the passengers in the taxies, 
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/jun/27/new-york-taxi-details-anonymised-data-researchers-warn  
5 U.S. soldiers are revealing sensitive and dangerous information by jogging, 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/a-map-showing-the-users-of-fitness-devices-lets-the-world-see-where-
us-soldiers-are-and-what-they-are-doing/2018/01/28/86915662-0441-11e8-aa61-
f3391373867e_story.html?utm_term=.9aa09730e4ba  

 

4 

 

22.  Organizations  implementing  any  combination  of  location  data  with  other  sources  of 
information (e.g., internet browsing data, transaction history, loyalty cards) on an identified 
or  identifiable  person,  or  any  combination  of  multiple  device  identifiers  that  can  be 
associated  to  a  single  individual  to  further  increase  the  effectiveness  of  tracking  (e.g., 
multiple  smart  phones,  tablets  and  fitness  bands  linked  to  the  same  individual)  should  be 
based on the individual’s informed consent. 

 

23.  Organisations  should  not  share  location  data  with  third  parties  without  the  valid  informed 

and specific consent of the individual concerned or as compelled under law. 

 

24.  Organizations should conduct a Data Protection Impact Assessment to identify any specific 
privacy  risks  related  to  the  large  scale  processing  of  location  data.  They  should  also 
implement appropriate measures to address and mitigate such risks. 

 
25.  Organisations  are  encouraged  to  adopt  privacy  by  design  mechanisms made  available  by 
industry,  ex  ante  and  during  the  processing  operations,  in  order  to  ensure  effective 
safeguards to individuals and mitigate any privacy risk. 

 

26.  Assessments of the need to notify authorities and individuals of security incidents affecting 
location  data  should  be  paid  due  regard  taking  into  account  the  inherent  high  risk  of  the 
data 

 

27.  Once  the  purpose  has  been  accomplished,  organizations  should  promptly  delete,  also  via 
automated  procedures,  or  anonymize  location  data.  The  anonymization  method  applied 
should  be  proven  to  be  reliable  and  regularly  reviewed.  If  large  sets  of  location  data  are 
anonymized,  then  re-identification  should  not  be  possible  with  reasonable  effort  for  all 
people  concerned,  even  those  with  unusual  movement  patterns.  If  location  data  is 
aggregated  in  order  to  anonymize  it,  then  the  usual  measures  of  anonymity  apply  (k-
anonymity, l-diversity, t-closeness). 

 

Recommendations to Industry 

 

28.  Device manufacturers and software developers should develop appropriate mechanisms to 

proactively notify individuals about location tracking; 

 

29.   Device  manufacturers  and  software  developers  should  provide  individuals  with    periodic 

reminders (just-in-time notices) that location tracking is taking place; 

 

30.  Device manufacturers and software developers should engineer and make available privacy 
by design options (such as noise injection, other methods to ensure differential privacy, the 
introduction of air gaps) in order to reduce the identifiability of location data. 

 

31.  Device manufacturers and software developers should engineer and make available privacy 
by design options like the use of temporary pseudonyms (device IDs, PKI certificates), with 

 

5 

 

an  adequate  refresh  frequency,  in  order  to  avoid  long  range  tracking,  beyond  what  is 
necessary  for  any  scope  of  public  utility  (like  road  accidents  detection,  transport 
optimization etc.). 

 

32.  Device  manufacturers  and  software  developers  for  location  tracking  applications  should 
promote  codes  of  conduct,  endorsed  by  industry  associations  and  appropriate  to  the 
intended use and application. 

 
33.  Device  manufacturers  and  software  developers  should  provide  mechanisms  whereby 
individuals can select the tracking options (timing, frequency, locations and so on) that best 
fit their preferences. 

 
34.  By default, location services should be switched off. Users should be given the opportunity, 
through easily accessible and prominently displayed dashboards, to delete all or part of the 
previously collected data. 

 

Recommendations to regulators 
 
35.  Regulators  should  promote  the  enactment  of  trust  in  the  organizations  implementing 
location tracking mandating transparency on the processing operations and the adoption of 
best  practices,  and  through  careful  and  periodic  checks  on  their  operations  by  means  of 
requirements to be audited.  

 

36.  Regulators  should  promote  the  enactment  of  trust  in  the  use  of  devices  and  application 
through the scrutiny of certification schemes and codes of conduct. On the other hand, they 
should warn consumers against the use of privacy unfriendly services. 

 

6 

