International Working Group
on Data Protection
in Telecommunications
 
711.398.2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 10, 2019

PRESS RELEASE

 
 

 

Berlin Group publishes working paper on large-scale location tracking
     

 

 

 

The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin Group),
headed by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk
at its 64th meeting on November 29th and 30th, 2018 in Queenstown (New Zealand)
Adopted working paper on large-scale location tracking.
 
Location tracking technologies present benefits and opportunities that are of public interest
are. For example, data from devices installed in cars can be used
to make road use more efficient, to reduce CO2 emissions or to improve safety
safety of drivers and pedestrians. The permanent use of mobile communications and
those wireless networks that enable physical location tracking, e.g. B. when hiking,
However, jogging, driving or cycling leads to the traceability of everyday activities
of people is becoming the norm. This entails great risks for the rights of those affected
People on respect for their private life and indirectly the perception of other people and
freedom rights.
 
The working paper on large-scale location tracking examines the risks to privacy
and the privacy associated with the large-scale collection of location data in public or
connected to private interests. It contains recommendations for companies, industry and authorities
the legal use of such technologies as well as possible technical and organizational
toric precautions to minimize the risks they pose.
 
The working paper is available in English at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org. One
German translation will shortly be available on the website of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Released Freedom of Information.
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”)
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications
Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications – IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin Group”) consists of
Representatives of data protection authorities and organizations from around the world dealing with the
deal with privacy protection. The working group was founded in 1983 on the initiative of the Berlin data protection
authority was founded, which has chaired it ever since. Since its inception, the working group has a variety of
Recommendations (“Common Positions” and “Working Papers”) to improve the protection of privacy
vatsphere in telecommunications. Since the early 1990s, the
Group in particular with the protection of privacy on the Internet.
 
After the adoption of working papers at the meetings of the working group, a written
Procedure for correction and final editing initiated. The publication of the final working paper
takes place after the written procedure has been completed.
 
More information about the working group and the documents adopted by the group are available at
available on the website of the working group: http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.
 
secretariat
Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information
Friedrichstr. 219
D-10969 Berlin
Telephone +49 / 30 / 13889 0
Fax: +49 / 30 / 215 5050
 

The Working Group has been initiated
by Data Protection Commissioners
from different countries in order
to improve privacy and data protection
in telecommunications and media

E-mail:
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
Internet:
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org

 

