International Working Group 
on Data Protection 
in Telecommunications 

711.398.2 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

P R E S S  R E L E A S E 

 
 

 

10 May 2019 

Working Paper on Wide Area Location Tracking released   

 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin 
Group), chaired by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja 
Smoltczyk, has passed a Working Paper on Wide Area Location Tracking at its 64th meeting in 
Queenstown (New Zealand) on 29 and 30 November 2018. After a written procedure the Working 
Paper has been finally adopted.  
 
Physical location tracking, namely the ability of modern technology to follow individuals’ move-
ments and keep a record of them, is an area where people’s real and virtual lives meet. In the 
past walking, driving, riding a bicycle or jogging were activities with very limited risks of being 
tracked. However, they are now becoming increasingly connected activities, and being tracked is 
becoming the norm. There is a great public interest in taking advantage of the opportunities and 
benefits of the new technologies. Data from devices installed in cars can be used to improve road 
use efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions, or to improve the safety of drivers and pedestrians. 
“Smart city” services can create public benefits, like making public services more effective and 
cost efficient. However, the discovery and use of patterns from mobility flows must be balanced 
by the protection of the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned. 
 
The Working Paper on Wide Area Location Tracking examines the data protection and privacy 
risks associated with large scale collection of location data in the public interest. It gives recom-
mendations to Organisations, industry and regulators for lawful implementation, and for possible 
technical and organizational arrangements ensuring to mitigate the risks. 
 
The Working Paper is available for download at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org   
 
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”) 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin 
Group”) includes representatives from Data Protection Authorities and international organisations dealing with 
privacy matters from all over the world. It was founded in 1983 at the initiative of the Berlin Commissioner for 
Data Protection, who has since then been chairing the Group. The Group has adopted numerous recommen-
dations (“Common Positions” and “Working Papers”) aimed at improving the protection of privacy in telecom-
munications. Since the beginning of the 90s the Group has focused particularly on the protection of privacy on 
the Internet. 
 
More information about the Work of the Group and the documents adopted by the Group are available for 
download on the website of the Group at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.   
 

Secretariat 
Berliner Beauftragte für 
Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit 
Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 
Phone   +49 / 30 / 13889 0 
Fax:      +49 / 30 / 215 5050 
 

E-Mail: 
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
Internet: 
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org 

 

The Working Group has been initiated 
by Data Protection Commissioners 
from different countries in order 
to improve privacy and data protection 
in telecommunications and media 

         