1/5

*

Procedure No.: PS/00164/2019
938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00164/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, to the entity SUR ESTE PRENSA EDITORIAL, SL.,
(***URL.1), for alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of Parliament
European and Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of
this Data (RGPD), and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On May 4, 2018, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection a claim indicating the dissemination of possible data
of the victim of "La Manada" by members of forums and media
communication.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced, by the Inspection Services of
this Agency, numerous actions have been carried out, aimed at verifying the
denounced facts and that the information was disappearing from the forums and
media. In relation to the means of communication, the
following actions:

1.

***MEDIA.1 is a digital communication medium. Made data public (name
and surnames, age, university in which he studies) and a photograph of the victim
in the edition of ***DATE.1, not stating said publication on the day
***DATE.2.

2. Information on the origin of the data has been requested by the data inspection.
published data and the regulations that protect said publication. The first
The request was notified through the electronic office, being rejected at
The maximum time elapses and it is notified again by postal mail. I know
requested, again, on two occasions by mail, being returned
both written by “Unknown”.

3. On October 5, 2018, a telephone call was made to the number
that appears on the website ***URL.1 to carry out advertising contracts
(***TELEPHONE 1). The Acting Sub-Inspector, after identifying himself as such, requested
information about the postal address of the company SOUTH EAST COMPANY
EDITORIAL, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1, stating the interlocutor that said
company has changed its headquarters to a business incubator in Cartagena.

4. On October 8, 2018, a telephone call was made to the nursery
of companies "FUENTE EL ALAMO" of Cartagena, stating the interlocutor
that among the companies housed in the incubator is not SOUTH EAST

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

PUBLISHING COMPANY, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1.

5. On October 8, 2018, a telephone call was made to the nursery
of companies "B.B.B." of Cartagena, stating the interlocutor that among the
companies housed in the incubator cannot be found SOUTH EAST COMPANY
EDITORIAL, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1

6. On October 8, 2018, a telephone call was made to
City Council of Cartagena, indicating the interlocutor that the postal address
which consists of SUR ESTE EMPRESA EDITORIAL, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1 is
***ADDRESS 1.

7. On October 8, 2018, an email was sent from the
inspection of data to the address published on the website of the medium
***EMAIL.1, requesting that a postal address be provided for the purposes of
notifications with no response received.

8. On October 24, 2018, the data inspection required the
owner of the line ***TELEPHONE.1 the contact information that they had
of SUR ESTE EMPRESA EDITORIAL, S.L - ***MEDIO.1 and copy of the contract
provision of services related to contracting advertising, without
To date, no response has been received.

9. On November 20, 2018, Mr. A.A.A., president of the
Board of Directors of SUR ESTE EMPRESA EDITORIAL, S.L. –
***MEDIUM.1 information on the origin of the personal data published and
other issues, being delivered to its addressee on November 23,
2018, without the Spanish Agency, at the time of starting this
procedure, there would be proof of having obtained a response.

THIRD: According to the documentation in the file, it is accredited
that the Spanish Agency for Data Protection has addressed the entity
person responsible for ***MEDIO.1 requesting information on the facts subject to
inspection, without having received a response to the requirements, and that
constitute the factual assumption of an alleged infringement of the regulations of
Personal data protection.

FOURTH: On April 24, 2019, having not received any type of
information to the requirement made within the framework of the previous actions of
investigation by the claimed entity, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against SUR ESTE
PUBLISHING COMPANY, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1, by virtue of the powers established in the
art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(LOPDGDD), for the infringement of article 83.5.e) of the RGPD and considered very serious
in 72.1.m and ñ) of the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, setting a sanction
initial payment of 40,000 euros (forty thousand euros).

FIFTH: The agreement to start the sanctioning procedure was sent by means of
electronic notification, Notific@, dated April 24, 2014, resulting in Expired

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

ten days later. A second service was attempted by certified mail, in
***ADDRESS.1, resulting in return.

SIXTH: On December 10, 2018, Mr. A.A.A. sent, by certified mail,
response to the request made by the Inspector of the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection; being received at this Agency on December 13, 2018.
Erroneously, this answer was linked to another file, for which reason
sanctioning actions were initiated, there was no record of their receipt.

The representative of SUR ESTE EMPRESA EDITORIAL, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1
indicated that the published data was collected from social networks and web pages
published on the network (***URL.2, ***URL.3 and ***URL.4), whose origin was a leak
produced by a decision of the Provincial Court of Navarra. Accompany copies of
existing publications that the newspaper picked up.

 SCAM: Formally notified of the start agreement, the one claimed at the time of the
SEP
This resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

FACTS

FIRST: On November 20, 2018, an Inspector of the Subdirectorate
General of Data Inspection requested Mr. A.A.A., president of the Council of
Administration of SUR ESTE EMPRESA EDITORIAL, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1 information
about the origin of the personal data published, in the newspaper of ***DATE.1
referring to personal data of the victim of La Manada, and other issues,
being delivered to its recipient on November 23, 2018, without having
proof of the response at the time of initiating this procedure.

SECOND: On January 16, 2019, the Data Inspector responsible for the
prior investigation actions signs the report containing the results of
these actions, indicating that on the day the report was signed, no information had been received
response to the request for information made to Mr. A.A.A., president of the
Board of Directors of SUR ESTE EMPRESA EDITORIAL, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1.

THIRD: On April 24, 2019, this sanctioning procedure was initiated
for not responding to the request for information made to Mr. A.A.A., president of the
Board of Directors of SUR ESTE EMPRESA EDITORIAL, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1,
by not having proof of receipt of the response to the information request.

FOURTH: By continuing the processing of this procedure, the error has been noticed in
the link to another file of the brief answering the request for
Information made to Mr. A.A.A., Chairman of the Board of Directors of SUR
THIS PUBLISHING COMPANY, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers of Attorney”, says:

II

                 “2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers
corrections listed below:
(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;
(...)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of the case
particular.

Section 1.a) of the same article provides:

"1. Each supervisory authority will have all investigative powers

listed below:

a) order the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the person in charge or the person in charge, who provide any information
required for the performance of their duties

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that SUR
THIS PUBLISHING COMPANY, S.L. – ***MEDIUM.1, did not violate article 58.1.a) of the
RGPD, whenever, after receiving the request for information made from the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, within the framework of the previous actions tending to
verify the facts denounced, it was addressed; although an error occurred and was
linked to another file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ARCHIVE sanctioning procedure PS/00164/2019, instructed SUR
ESTE PRENSA EDITORIAL, S.L.(***URL.1), as there has been no infringement of the
article 58.1 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Mr. A.A.A., on behalf of
SOUTH EAST PRESS EDITORIAL, S.L.(***URL.1).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

