

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in connection with the issuance of parking cards (city of Prachatice)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data in connection with the issuance of parking cards by the city of Prachatice. The authority found that the controlled person issues two types of parking cards, non-transferable parking cards, issued for one vehicle, and portable parking cards, issued in a name and usable for any vehicle.

The authority found that redundant personal data was entered on both types of parking cards, i.e. name, surname and permanent residence for the non-transferable parking card and permanent residence and vehicle registration number for the portable parking card. The Authority found that the controlled person violated the obligations set out in § 5 paragraph 2 (legal title for processing), § 5 paragraph 3 (obligation to take care to protect private and personal life during processing on the basis of a special law), § 10 ( protection of private and personal life), § 13 paragraph 1 (adoption of security measures) and § 19 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

Given that the inspected person rectified the defective condition according to the Office's recommendation already during the inspection, the Office did not impose corrective measures. Parking cards issued by the city of Prachatice already contain only the necessary personal data of their holders, which in the case of a portable parking card are the name, surname, or title of the parking card holder, and in the case of a non-transferable parking card, the vehicle registration number. The office imposed a fine of CZK 20,000 on the inspected person.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector PhDr. Petr Krejci.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with the issuance of parking cards (city of Prachatice )Show current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



