1/14

 Procedure No.: PS/00459/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 06/10/2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against MALAGATROM, S.L.U.
(onwards,
MALAGATROM or the claimed one), which operates under the “Mercatron” trademark. The
The reasons on which the claim is based are: the respondent has treated and disclosed in
"Amazon" your personal data related to name and surname, address, number of
mobile phone, name of your spouse and mobile phone number of your spouse. warns
that the reported data processing is carried out without your consent and without a
legitimate purpose.

 with NIF B93178614

This claim makes it clear that, through the "Amazon" platform, the
The claimant acquired from the respondent a product marketed by this company,
resulting in defective shipment and giving rise to various claims, some with the
intermediation of “Amazon”. The complainant adds that she chose to insert a comment
with a negative evaluation of the store of the claimed one together with a review of the
product, receiving a response in which the defendant threatens to publish their
data, which later complied with the incorporation of a comment that
details the personal data indicated above.

Attach the following scanned images of the “Amazon” user account:

1. Message from “Amazon” dated 05/15/2020 regarding an order.

2. Message dated 06/02/2020 sent by <devolution@amazon.es> to the claimant
about refund.

3. Message dated 06/02/2020 from “Amazon” to “Mercatron” regarding the request for
return of the order by the claimant.

4. Message dated 06/03/2020 sent by “Mercatron” to the claimant about the
return, with the following text:

"Mr. Customer, I advise you to return the equipment, so that our business relationship
is annulled, a negative vote for a case like yours, only shows...
Also, I don't think you would like all the vendors to see all your
data in the reply to the comment, but if you don't care, we will no longer
write to him You are the one who plays it…”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

5. Message dated 06/03/2020 sent by “Amazon” Customer Service
to the claimant.

6. Comments published on the “Mercatron” showcase page, among which
there is one inserted by the claimed entity itself, dated 06/03/2020, with the text
Next:

“Be very careful with this account… (name and surnames, address and number of
claimant's cell phone). The husband's name is... (name of the spouse of the
claimant) and is the one who keeps the account… (mobile telephone number of the spouse of the
claimant)”.

The claimant refers to the possible incorporation of her personal data and the
of your spouse to advertisements published in the portals "Milanuncios" and "Tripadvisor", and
adds that on the same date of 06/03/2020 they began to receive calls from
interested persons, some of whom knew the address of the claimant. Nope
However, the claim does not accompany any evidence in this regard.

SECOND: The claim was admitted for processing on 06/22/2020.

THIRD: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the investigative actions carried out, the report prepared
by the acting inspector reveals the following:

“[…]

It is verified that the claimed facts are true, finding not only the
personal data of the claimant and her husband published in the response
provided by the claimed party to the valuation made by the claimant, but rather
Three other cases of disclosure of personal data have been found in responses to
evaluations in the last six months in the profile of the claimed person on the website of
online sale https://www.amazon.es.
[…]
the websites https://milanuncios.es and
Performed a search on
https://www.tripadvisor.es in which the claimant states that they have been published
also their personal data for which they have received telephone calls, not
We found no reference to the claimant's telephone number or to that of her husband.
[…]

It has been verified that there are other cases in which, upon receiving a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

refusal, the respondent makes public the personal data of customers not
satisfied with the purchase and/or the service. The most recent case of those found has
been in a response to a customer comment dated August 17,
2020”.

Through Inspection Diligence dated 12/03/2020, it is incorporated into the actions
screen print with some responses of the claimed to comments
inserted in the “Amazon” shopping website by its customers, in which
reveal their personal data. The pages containing these comments,
including those relating to the complainant, were obtained from the profile of the complainant in said
website.

Three comments are incorporated, all of them with a similar content to the one
motivated the claim, according to the detail that is outlined in the Proven Fact
Fifth.

FOURTH
 : Dated 05/25/2021, by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
 
access to the information available on the claimed entity in “Axesor”. In
said website states that said entity was established in 2012, with a share capital of
3,000 euros. (...).

(...).

FIFTH: On 06/01/2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the entity MAGALATROM, for the
alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the same
Regulation; indicating in said agreement that the sanction that could correspond
amounts to 4,000 euros (four thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the
instruction.

SIXTH: Once the aforementioned initiation agreement has been notified, the term granted to the respondent to
formulating allegations takes place without this Agency having received a written
some.

SEVENTH: On 06/28/2021, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense of
that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction the
entity claimed with a fine amounting to 4,000 euros (four thousand euros), for a
violation of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it was proposed that the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is required from the claimed party so that, within the period determined, it adopts the
necessary measures to adapt their actions to data protection regulations
personal, with the scope expressed in the Fundamentals of Rights of the aforementioned
resolution proposal.

EIGHTH: The proposed resolution has been notified to the respondent entity, dated
On 06/30/2021, this Agency received a letter of allegations, in which it states that
There is no disclosure of data, as it is an internal chat of the web to which no
no other person can access.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

He alleges that he is defenseless, given the impossibility of proving his innocence, and adds that the
low yields that he obtains do not allow him to bear sanctions for acts unrelated to
his will, so he will be forced not to continue with the business activity.

With her writing, the respondent does not provide any documentation.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: the claimed entity is registered as a "seller" in the Portal
Amazon. Through this website, the claimant purchased one of the products
marketed by the defendant.

SECOND: The shipment of the product that the claimant acquired from the claimed party resulted
defective, giving rise to the formulation of various claims by the
client. The complainant also inserted a comment on the showcase page of the
claimed on “Amazon” with a negative store rating and a review from the
product.

THIRD: In response to the claimant's comment, outlined in Fact
Proven Second, the respondent, dated 06/03/2020, inserted a comment about
of the return, with the following text:

"Mr. Customer, I advise you to return the equipment, so that our business relationship
is annulled, a negative vote for a case like yours, only shows...
Also, I don't think you would like all the vendors to see all your
data in the reply to the comment, but if you don't care, we will no longer
write to him You are the one who plays it…”.

FOURTH: On 06/03/2020, the respondent inserted a comment on the platform
“Amazon” shopping center, on its own showcase page, in which it discloses the data
personal information of the claimant related to name and surnames, address, number of
mobile phone, name of your spouse and mobile phone number of your spouse. The text of
this comment is as follows:

“Be very careful with this account… (name and surnames, address and number of
claimant's cell phone). The husband's name is... (name of the spouse of the
claimant) and is the one who keeps the account… (mobile telephone number of the spouse of the
claimant)”.

FIFTH: The Agency's Inspection Services verified that there are other
cases in which, upon receiving a negative assessment, the respondent entity makes
public the personal data of customers who are not satisfied with the purchase and/or the
service. The pages containing these comments, including those relating to the
claimant, were obtained from the profile of the claimed in "Amazon".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

The text of these comments is as follows:

. Comment inserted on 05/29/2020: “Be very careful with this buyer… (name
and surnames of the client, address and mobile telephone number).
. Comment inserted on 06/03/2020: “Beware of this client… (client name,
city or zip code). He is a manipulator."
. Comment inserted on 08/19/2020: “Be careful with this client… (name and surname
of the client, address and mobile telephone number). He is dedicated to buying things and for the
fact of being prime it is believed that you do not have to pay. Watch out for this guy for calling him
something".

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the RGPD, in
this organic law, by the regulatory provisions issued in its
development and, in so far as they are not contradicted, on a subsidiary basis, by the rules
general administrative procedures.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
processing of personal data:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;
d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

2. Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions
in order to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with regard to the
treatment in compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), setting more
specifies specific treatment requirements and other measures that guarantee a
lawful and equitable treatment, including other specific situations of
treatment under Chapter IX.

3. The basis of the treatment indicated in section 1, letters c) and e), must be
established by:

a) Union law, or
b) the law of the Member States that applies to the data controller.

The purpose of the treatment must be determined in said legal basis or, in what
regarding the treatment referred to in section 1, letter e), will be necessary for the
fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
data conferred on the data controller. Said legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of rules of this
Regulation, among others: the general conditions that govern the legality of the treatment
by the controller; the types of data object of treatment; the interested
affected; the entities to which personal data can be communicated and the purposes
of such communication; purpose limitation; the retention periods of the
data, as well as the operations and procedures of the treatment, including the
measures to ensure lawful and fair treatment, such as those relating to other
specific treatment situations under chapter IX. Union Law
or of the Member States will fulfill a public interest objective and will be proportional
to the legitimate end pursued.

4. When the treatment for another purpose other than that for which the data was collected
personal data is not based on the consent of the interested party or on the Law
of the Union or of the Member States which constitutes a necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard the stated objectives
in article 23, paragraph 1, the data controller, in order to determine
if processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which they were collected
initially the personal data, will take into account, among other things:

a) any relationship between the purposes for which the data was collected
data and the purposes of the intended further processing;
b) the context in which the personal data have been collected, in particular by what
regarding the relationship between the interested parties and the data controller;
c) the nature of the personal data, specifically when categories are processed
special personal data, in accordance with article 9, or personal data
relating to criminal convictions and offences, in accordance with article 10;
d) the possible consequences for data subjects of the envisaged further processing;
e) the existence of adequate safeguards, which may include encryption or
pseudonymization”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

What is expressed in recitals 40 to 45 and 47 of the RGPD is taken into account.

In the present case, the entity claimed is registered as "seller" in the
Portal “Amazon”. Through this website, the claimant purchased one of the
products marketed by the defendant.

By virtue of said purchase, the defendant collected the personal data of the
claimant and was entitled to subject them to treatment in order to give
compliance with the aforementioned business relationship.

However, the respondent carried out a treatment of such data that was not
necessary for the fulfillment or execution of said relationship, consisting of inserting
a comment on his own showcase page on “Amazon” detailing the
personal data of the claimant related to name and surnames, address, number of
mobile phone, name of your spouse and mobile phone number of your spouse. The text
of the comment in question is as follows:

“Be very careful with this account… (name and surnames, address and number of
claimant's cell phone). The husband's name is... (name of the spouse of the
claimant) and is the one who keeps the account… (mobile telephone number of the spouse of the
claimant)”.

On the other hand, the investigative actions carried out by the Services of
Inspection of this Agency have verified the existence of similar comments
relating to other clients, whose personal data have been used in the same way.
These actions include three comments of this type, in addition to the
corresponding to the claimant, in which personal data of clients of
the claimed one.

There is no record, in the case of the claimant or in relation to the other clients mentioned,
that the respective processing of personal data by the claimed party is
carried out under a legal basis that legitimizes them, they were not necessary
for the fulfillment of the commercial relationship, as has been said, and the purpose for the
carried out is not a purpose compatible with those that determined the
collection of such personal data by the claimed party.

Consequently, the aforementioned facts violate the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD,
which gives rise to the application of the corrective powers that article 58 of the aforementioned
Regulation grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Regarding this use of the personal data of the clients, the claimed entity does not
has made any statement in his brief of allegations to the proposal.
 

III

Article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must govern the treatment of personal data.
personal data and mentions among them that of “integrity and confidentiality”. East
Article, in section 1.f), states the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

Article 5 of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), is
refers to the “Duty of confidentiality” in the following terms:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the
duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.
3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even
when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment".

The comments made by the respondent about the complainant and other clients, in
those that detail personal data related to them, which were inserted
on the “Amazon” sales portal, on the showcase page of the claim itself, which
is registered as a selling entity in said portal, implies the dissemination to third parties
of those personal data without any type of restriction, considering that said
website is freely accessible to any internet user.

Thus, on the part of the respondent, a dissemination of personal data was carried out, which
constitutes an infringement for non-compliance with the provisions of article 5
“Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD, section 1.f), in relation to the article
5 “Duty of confidentiality” of the LOPDGDD.

This duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, is intended to
avoid those disclosures of data not consented to by the owners of the same. I know
It is an obligation that falls to the person responsible and in charge of the treatment, as well
as to everyone who intervenes in any phase of the treatment; and what is
complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

In its arguments to the resolution proposal, the respondent entity denies this
disclosure of personal data, noting that the comments in question are
made in an internal web chat to which no other party can access
person. However, the actions carried out by the Inspection Services
of the Agency have made it possible to verify that the comments are public, given that
the site can be accessed without any restriction, without even being registered in the
sales platform.

In the same brief, he has alleged defenselessness, but without expressing any cause or
determining circumstance.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

9/14

The facts verified, consisting of using the personal data of the
interested to make some comments that were inserted in a website of
free access, constitute the factual basis to substantiate the imputation to the
claimed for infractions of articles 6 and 5.1 of the LOPDGDD.

We are faced with a case of medial competition, in which the same fact
could lead to two infractions, given the circumstance that the commission of one
necessarily implies the commission of the other. That is, data processing
personal information on a freely accessible website results, in turn, in a violation of the
duty of confidentiality.

The two possible infractions are considered very serious for prescription purposes.
in article 72 of the LOPDGDD and both are typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

In this regard, article 29.5 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Law of the Public Sector, establishes the following:

“When the commission of an infraction necessarily derives from the commission of another or
others, only the sanction corresponding to the most serious infraction should be imposed.
serious offense”.

Therefore, it is appropriate to subsume both infractions in one, proceeding to impose
only the sanction provided for the violation of article 6 of the RGPD, which is
of the original infraction that has implied the commission of the other.

v

In the event that there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD, between the
corrective powers available to the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
as a control authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the
following:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
(...)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in letter d)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

SAW

Failure to comply with the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD implies the commission of
an infringement typified in section 5.a) of article 83 of the RGPD, which under the
heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides
the next:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Article 72. Infractions considered very serious.
1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD
has:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party”.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, in order to set the amount of the penalty to
impose in the present case, it is estimated that the criteria concur as aggravating
following graduation:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

-

-

The intentionality appreciated in the commission of the infraction. In this case, what
results from the inclusion of a comment regarding the claimant, inserted
on a publicly accessible website, there is a previous comment in which the
The same claimed threatened with that disclosure of personal data.
The nature of the infringement, taking into account the scope or purpose of the
treatment operations in question, regarding the privacy of the
claimant.
The nature of the damages caused to the interested parties.

-
- The means through which the personal data object of the

performances (free access website for any internet user).
The categories of personal data affected by the infringement,
considering that the comment in question details the identification data and
of contact of its clients and third parties.

-

It is also considered that there are extenuating circumstances
following:

-

The small business status of the responsible entity.

Considering the exposed factors, it is considered appropriate to impose a
fine amounting to 4,000 euros (four thousand euros), for the infringement of article 6 of the
GDPR.

The respondent has made allegations to the proposed resolution indicating that
the low yields he obtains do not allow him to bear the sanction, so he
will be forced not to continue with the business activity. However, it has not
provided any documentation that supports these statements, or that could
to imply that the indicated amount is disproportionate. In fact, it hasn't
made any statement about the graduation criteria taken into account.

7th

In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the commission of a
infraction may lead to the imposition of the person responsible for the obligation to adopt
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to data protection regulations
personal. According to this article, each control authority may “order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period…”.

Therefore, in this case, it is appropriate to require the claimed party so that, within the term
determine, remove all comments from your page on the “Amazon” platform
inserted by the claimant herself in which personal data of her
clients or third parties; and adopt the appropriate measures to avoid similar events
may be repeated in the future, warning everyone in your organization
about the illegality of this conduct.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as a serious administrative infraction by “not cooperating with the Authority

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

of control” before the requirements made, being able to be valued such behavior to the
time of the opening of an administrative sanctioning procedure with a fine
pecuniary

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity MALAGATROM, S.L.U., with NIF B93178614, for
an infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of 4,000 euros (four thousand euros).

SECOND: REQUEST the entity MALAGATROM, S.L.U. that, within a
month, adopt the necessary measures to adapt its actions to the regulations of
protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Foundation of
Right VII of this resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to MALAGATROM, S.L.U.

FOURTH
 : Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
 
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

