

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data of employees (Energy Regulatory Office)



On the basis of four initiatives, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Act No. 101/2000 Coll., the subject of which was the processing of personal data of employees of the inspected person. The content of the initiatives was the actions of one of the members of its statutory body, who was supposed to gain access to the personal files of all employees without authorization or a resolution of this body. He was to take the files from the payroll and personnel department and transfer them to his office, where they were to be stored freely in lockable cabinets without any security. At the same time, according to the complainants, there were also unauthorized accesses to files and personal files. It was found that the relocation of files took place in connection with the inspection of personnel files, which was to be carried out by an authorized member of the statutory body. However, in connection with the relocation and subsequent inspection of personnel files, the inspected person did not specify the conditions under which the relocation and inspection should take place (security and conditions for access to the files, range of persons authorized to access the files). In doing so, it violated the obligation under § 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. In the period from August to November 2017, the personal files of the auditee were exposed to the risk of access by unauthorized persons.

At the same time, a violation of the obligation stipulated in § 14 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. by a member of the statutory body entrusted with the control of personnel files, consisting in the manipulation of specific files beyond the scope of the official task.



The President of the Office partially complied with the objections that the inspected person filed against the inspection findings. Following this conclusion, the Office carried out a follow-up investigation in the matter, in the framework of which it also assessed the fulfillment of obligations under § 5 paragraph 1 letter b) to f) and § 11, 12 and 21 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. No further misconduct on the part of the inspected person was found after the investigation.



Considering that the inspected person immediately corrected the defective condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures.


The inspection was conducted by the inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Bozena Čajková.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of the processing of personal data of employees (Energy Regulatory Office) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



