1/5

 File No.: EXP202104229

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated November 5
of 2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the party claiming
gives). The reasons on which the claim is based are briefly the following:

“They have installed a video-surveillance camera that points towards my house so

that I have to keep the blinds completely down” (folio no. 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Annex I CD) that proves

the presence of the device that is the object of the claim.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the party claimed on fe-
date 11/08/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the plan
within one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements.
cough in the data protection regulations.

No response has been received to this letter of transfer.

THIRD: On January 17, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On March 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter
te, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: On 04/21/22, a letter was received from the defendant arguing the
following:

“What the signatory has done is hire the security company
called Securitas Direct so that prior information on the legality of what
I was thinking of having security cameras put up to record my backyard.
property where I usually install various plants and control any access from
intruders to my private home (...) As soon as you receive this notification, contact the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

company hired to ratify the legality of my actions through the
documentation that they consider necessary and I request the contract signed with them (...)

The signatory, before acknowledging any type of responsibility, wants
know the File, as well as the content of the complaint as well as the CD (Annex
I), since it considers that it has not committed any irregularity but simply
He has let himself be guided by the advice of a security company”.

SIXTH: On 06/27/22, a "resolution proposal" was issued proposing the
continuation of the procedure, since the arguments of the
claimed in relation to the facts described, proposing a sanction encrypted in the
amount of €300, for the alleged violation of art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

SEVENTH: On 06/30/22, a written statement was received from the defendant that
confirms receipt of a copy of the administrative file, denying the facts of
the counterpart, considering that the photograph provided does not respond to the reality of
the facts, limiting its capture to a particular private space where
of has various plants.

Accompanies as Evidence Document No. 3 (Copy of the Security Company contract) in
support of their arguments, as well as photographs of what is captured with the camera
in question.

Item, for the reasons stated, requests the File of the procedure considering

rar that it has not breached current regulations on data protection.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 11/05/21 through the
which is transferred as main fact the following:

“They have installed a video-surveillance camera that points towards my house so

that I have to keep the blinds completely down” (folio no. 1).

Second. B.B.B. is accredited as the main person in charge, who in writing pre-
registered at the Official Postal Service dated 04/13/22 states that he has contracted
given to a security company for the installation of the video surveillance system.

Third. The capture of private space of third party (s) is not verified, obeying
the installation of the system for security reasons in the face of various damages in its materials.
quotes by unknown author.

Room. The defendant has hired the services of a private security company
for the management of the system, providing a copy of it, not having modified the an-
angle of collection that is limited to its private patio (document evidence Annex I).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each authori-
quality of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulations
comments dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sisidario, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In the present case, the claim dated 11/05/21 is examined by means of
gave from which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“They have installed a video-surveillance camera that points towards my house so

that I have to keep the blinds completely down” (folio no. 1).

The art. 5.1 c) GDPR provides the following: Personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative poster
tive, indicating the purposes and person responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
to intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
nas of transit of the same without justified cause.

Neither with this type of device can you obtain an image(s) of public space.
since this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the State
tado.

It should be remembered that even if it is a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimate
measured by it in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

The purpose of this type of device must be the security of the property and
its inhabitants, avoiding the affectation of the rights of third parties who are intimidated
two with the same

II

On 06/30/22, a written statement of the defendant's allegations was received, confirming the
presence of the camera, although denying the facts of the counterpart since the angel was not there.
Orientation angle affecting the private area of the claimant.

He uses acts of vandalism against the plants he owns, although he does not know
The author does state that as a result of the installation of the camera(s) the
themselves, fulfilling a deterrent function and contracting the service with a company
industry security.

The evidence provided allows us to verify after their analysis that there is no
private area is affected, being oriented towards its private patio, for
Therefore, it is not verified that the transferred facts constitute an ad hoc infringement.
ministerial.

There is also no evidence that a "data processing" of the claim has been carried out.
and/or third party, nor have any further complaints been received in this regard in relation to the camera
in question, which is limited to capturing a private patio.

IV.

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when a proof of accreditation of the facts has not been obtained and verified.
crimes that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
tor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its various manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and an adversarial procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charges or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without
that no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the body
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning Law and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the set of evidence and a procedure
contradictory in which one's own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no sanction may be imposed based on the
guilt of the accused if there is no probative activity, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

V

In accordance with the above, after analyzing the allegations and evidence provided
given by the defendant, no infringement is found, the system being in accordance with the
regulations in force, so it is appropriate to order the File of this procedure.

The parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake and must
avoid the instrumentalization of this body for issues typical of "quarrels
"neighbourhood" or bad neighborly relations, these must be resolved in the instants
timely judicial decisions or redirect them to the minimum required parameters of
neighborliness.

Therefore, in accordance with applicable law,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILING of this procedure as there is no accredited
gives the commission of any administrative infraction in the matter at hand

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Mrs. B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties
Respondents may optionally file an appeal for reinstatement before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
fourth clause of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administration, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-050522

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

