Our Ref.: 11.17.001.006.048 
 

 
 

 

Final Decision 

13 June 2019 

Complaint against IQ OPTION EUROPE LTD - Deletion Request 

 
The  Office  of  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection  (hereafter  “CY  SA”)  refers  to  the 
complaint  of  Mr.  XXXXX  (hereafter  “the  complainant”)  lodged  with  the  Data  Protection 
Commissioner of Hessen, Germany. 
 
Case description 
 
The  complainant  was  denied  erasure  of  his  data  due  to  his  earlier  consent  to  the  general  terms 
and conditions. The general terms and conditions, however, do not elaborate on the data subjects' 
rights but only refer in a general manner to the GDPR. 
  
The CY SA requested from IQ OPTION EUROPE LTD, to provide information on: 

 

a)  The purpose of keeping the data of the complainant, 
b)  The specific legal grounds of non-compliance with the erasure request of the data subject, 
c)  The categories of all the data of the complainant which were not deleted. 

 
CY SA received from IQ OPTION the requested information within the set timeframe. 
 
IQ OPTION response 
 
In  its  response,  IQ  OPTION  explained  that,  as  a  regulated  entity  they  are  obliged  by  the  AML 
national legislation (The Prevention and Suppression of Money Laundering Activities Law of 2007 
(Law  188(I)/2007)),  specifically  provided  under  section  68  of  this  law  as  well  as  the  MiFiD  and 
MiFiR  EU  regulations,  to  preserve  the  data  records  for  a  specified  retention  period  (at  least  5 
years)  to  ensure  that  regulators  (mainly  the  Cyprus  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission), 
companies and customers have access to key business records surrounding financial transactions. 
 
They  provided  a  list  of  all  the  personal  data  of  the  complainant,  which  were  not  deleted  and  for 
each  one  of them  they  indicated  the  legal  basis for keeping those  data. The  legal  basis  is  either 
national law 188(I)/2007 indicated above or/ and MiFiD and MiFiR regulations.  
 
With  regards  to  the  subject  matter  of  the  complaint,  IQ  OPTION  confirmed  that,  despite  the 
company  guidelines,  the  reply  initially  provided  to  the  complainant  by  their  support  services  was 
indeed  incomplete  and  did  not  inform  the  client  of  the  legal  grounds  obliging  IQ  OPTION  to 
maintain his data. As a corrective measure, they confirmed that a formal and complete reply  was 
prepared to be send to the complainant explaining why his personal data cannot be erased due to 
the  legal  restraints  imposed  by  the  regulator  (Cyprus  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission) 
pursuant to Cyprus legislation and confirming that as soon as the date upon which their obligation 
to maintain the data expires, they will proceed to the removal/erasure of all personal data.  
 
IQ option further emphasised in its letter that it is their priority to effectively deal with all requests 
received, that they adopted all necessary internal technical and organisational measures imposed 
by the GDPR and the national laws to be in a position to reply to all demands in a timely manner 
and will do their very best to avoid having any such issues arise in the future. 
 
Moreover,  IQ  OPTION  affirmed  that  it  has  taken  additional  measures  concerning  data  subject 
rights/ privacy policy following the complaint: 
 

 

 

  All  the  procedures  were  reviewed  to  ensure  that  data  minimisation  principle  is  adequately 
applied and in particular to ensure that only the absolutely necessary data for the performance 
of  their  services  are  processed  and  in  compliance  with  the  laws  and  regulations  relevant  to 
their activities. 
 

  The DPO planned additional training sessions to the staff interacting with the client, to remind 
them  of  the  procedures.  The  DPO  further  circulated  detailed  instructions  as  to  how  the  staff 
should reply to each type of request, in order to avoid having a similar miscommunication with 
clients in the future. 

 
Our view 
 
CY SA considers that IQ OPTION provided all the necessary elements related to the complaint. 
 
We  verified  the  list  of  all  the  personal  data  of  the  complainant,  which  were  not  deleted  and  it 
appears that for each one of them the legal basis for keeping the data is relevant  - either national 
law  188(I)/2007  or/  and  MiFiD  and  MiFiR  regulations  –  and  in  compliance  with  the  minimisation 
principle.  We  further  checked  with  the  Cyprus  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  that  the 
categories of data maintained are indeed relevant. 
 
In  light  of  the  above,  we  conclude  that  the  data  of  the  complainant  cannot  be  erased  before  the 
expiration of the timeframe provided in the relevant laws due to lex specialis principle. We consider 
that,  in  this  case,  the  right  to  erasure  does  not  apply  because  “the  processing  is  necessary  for 
compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  which  requires  processing  by  Union  or  Member  State  law  to 
which the controller is subject or for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in 
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller” (Article 17(1)(b) of the GDPR). 
 
Based  on  the  above-mentioned  explanations,  CY  SA  did  not  identify  any  infringements  of  the 
obligations set out in the GDPR by IQ Option. 
 
 
 
Commissioner  
for Personal Data Protection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

