





In the premises of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Zagreb, on October 6, the Personal Data Protection Agency held the first in a series of free workshops "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation?" For micro, small and medium enterprises.
This is the first workshop conducted within the European project Awarness raising campaigning for Small and Medium Enterprises (ARC) - Awareness raising campaign on data protection for medium and small enterprises. As the name of the project suggests, the aim is to make micro, small and medium-sized enterprises aware of their obligations under the General Data Protection Regulation, but also to support them in order to meet these obligations as easily as possible.
The agency invites micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to fill out a survey available at the link: https://vub.fra1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_etyCPkI1C1dtfZr.
The purpose of this research is to gain insight into the challenges faced by SMEs in complying with the General Data Protection Regulation in their business and a clearer understanding of their needs. Based on the results of the research, the ARC project partners will develop guidelines and various educational materials tailored to the specific needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
On the occasion of the opening of the workshop, the Director of the Agency Zdravko Vukić thanked the Croatian Chamber of Commerce for their cooperation and support, and wished all entrepreneurs successful work. "We believe that this campaign, which we will conduct together, will make it easier for members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to understand data protection regulations and adjust their operations to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. In this way, SMEs will have the opportunity to acquire the necessary knowledge and avoid situations in which they may find themselves in a role of violating the Regulation due to lack of information, and thus bear appropriate sanctions, such as administrative fines and other corrective measures. "
The interactive workshop, which in addition to lectures on the legislative framework on personal data protection, also consisted of practical exercises in order for entrepreneurs to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills on as concrete examples as possible, attracted many entrepreneurs. All interested micro, small and medium-sized enterprises will have the opportunity to participate in the workshops, given that the project envisages holding workshops throughout the Republic of Croatia.
The EU ARC project is co-financed by the European Union's Rights, Equality and Citizenship Program and coordinated by the Personal Data Protection Agency, in partnership with the Data Protection Commission, the Irish Data Protection Supervisor and Vrije University of Brussels.
You can find the schedule of workshops at:
https://arc-rec-project.eu/dogadanja/
 
 
 
  

