Press Release: No. 05/2021
Magdeburg, September 1, 2021

L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c t i o n

State representative provides new information at the start of school and daycare

Information package on data protection available

Starting school or day-care center (Kita) is a new one for children and parents,

exciting part of life. There are also numerous questions about the

Data protection: Is it allowed to take photos at school or daycare events? Must mine

Submit a substantiated medical certificate for the child if they go to school without a mask

want? Can I or my child provide proof of vaccination, e.g. a measles vaccination?

fung, be demanded? What data is the school or day-care center allowed to process?

work? Online learning platforms and video conferences: How secure is the data?

These questions are asked by teachers at school as well as by teachers

daycare staff. But parents also regularly have a need for information and ask

after.

Against this background, the state representative has a new information package on his

Homepage made available, the information material on the most frequently asked questions

about data protection in schools and day-care centers.

The information package includes:

 Advice on taking photos at school events,

 Notes on data protection in the school,

 Information on data protection in the day care center,

 Information on exemption from wearing a mouth and nose cover,

 Guidance for online learning platforms in schools

 Notes on the use of video conferencing systems.

"We want the parents, but also the staff in schools and day care centers

sites on the occasion of the start of school about the data protection regulations that are relevant to them

to answer questions quickly. This is intended to start the children in a for them

succeed smoothly in the new phase of life and thus a happy event for everyone

will be something to remember.” said Albert Cohaus, who as a representative in the

Press Release: No. 05/2021
Magdeburg, September 1, 2021

L a n g e c p o r i c e r fo r d a ta protec tio n

Office performs the tasks of the state representative. "The information package should also

will be regularly supplemented in the future as soon as new information or assessments are available

gen. This also includes other data protection issues in connection with

of the corona pandemic."

You can find the information package on our website at
https://datenschutz.sachsen-anhalt.de/informationen/infopakete/infopaket-schule-
and-daycare

Imprint:

State Commissioner for Data Protection of the State of Saxony-Anhalt

Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office

ladder street 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

