Brussels, 03 June 2020

Ref: OUT2020-0046

Subject:  Letter  of  11 May  2020  from  the  Civil  Liberties  Union  for  Europe,  Access Now and  the
Hungarian Civil Liberties Union (HCLU)

Dear Ms. Massé, Mr. Szabó and Mr. Dénes,

Thank  you  for  your  letter related  to the  adoption  by  the  Hungarian government  of  the
Decree 179/2020  of  4  May  2020  on the  derogations from  certain  data  protection  and  access  to
information provisions during the state of danger1.

The EDPB dedicates  special  attention  to the measures involving  the  processing  of  personal  data
adopted in the context of the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Let me recall in particular the recent
adoption of the guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and contact tracing tools in the context
of the COVID-19 outbreak, the guidelines 03/2020 on the processing of data concerning health for the
purpose  of  scientific  research  in  the  context  of  the  COVID-19  outbreak, the Statement  on  the
processing of personal data in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak and the letter concerning the
European Commission's draft Guidance on apps supporting the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.

In this context, and as already highlighted, the GDPR remains applicable and allows for an efficient
response to the pandemic, while at the same time protecting fundamental rights and freedoms. Data
protection law, including relevant applicable national law, already enables data-processing operations
necessary to contribute to the fight against the spread of a pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.

The EDPB would like to recall that the rights of data subjects are an essential and integral part of the
implementation  of  the  fundamental  right  to  data  protection as  enshrined  in  the  Charter of
fundamental rights of the European Union and are key to the implementation of the GDPR in the
Union. In that sense, as laid down in Article 23 of the GDPR, any restriction to the rights of data subjects
must  respect the  essence  of  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and must  be a necessary  and
proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard an important objective of general public
interest of the Union or of a Member State. Even in these exceptional times, the protection of personal
data must be upheld in all emergency measures, including restrictions adopted at national level, as
per Article 23 of the GDPR thus contributing to the respect of the overarching values of democracy,
rule of law and fundamental rights on which the Union is founded.

1 Decree  179/2020 (V.  4.)  Korm.  rendelet  a  veszélyhelyzet  idején  az  egyes  adatvédelmi  és  adatigénylési
rendelkezésektől való eltérésről (https://net.jogtar.hu/jogszabaly?docid=a2000179.kor).

1

With respect to supervision over restrictions on data subject rights and over compliance of Member
States’ data protection law with EU law, I would like to stress that the EDPB does not have the same
competences, tasks and powers as national supervisory authorities and as the European Commission.

At national level, the assessment of alleged infringements of the GDPR falls within the competence of
the  responsible  and  independent  national  supervisory  authority,  subject  to  the cooperation  and
consistency mechanisms set out in the GDPR when applicable. Data protection supervisory authorities
are  responsible for monitoring and,  if  necessary,  enforcing the  application  of  data  protection
principles in the context of the state of emergency, including on the lawfulness of any restriction on
the exercise of data subject rights. A judicial remedy should also always be available in accordance
with Articles 78 and 79 of the GDPR.

At European level, under Article 70 of the GDPR, the EDPB has the power to advise the European
Commission on any issue related to the protection of personal data in the Union and to examine any
question  covering  the  application  of  the  GDPR  in  order  to  encourage  its  consistent  application.
According to Article 258 of the Treaty on the functioning of the European Union, only the European
Commission may take legal steps against a Member State in case of a breach of EU law.

The EDPB is committed to ensure a full and consistent implementation of the GDPR throughout the
EU and, to that end, will issue guidelines on the implementation of Article 23 of the GDPR in the
coming months. In the meantime, the EDPB adopted a statement recalling main principles related to
the restrictions on data subject rights in connection to the state of emergency in Member States. The
statement is annexed to this letter. I wish to reassure you that the EDPB will continue to pay special
attention to the developments of personal data processing and restrictions on data subject rights in
connection to the state of emergency in Member States and will remain ready to support all members
of the EDPB, including the Hungarian Supervisory Authority, in such matters.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

2

