 

 

THE STATE OFFICER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

 
PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Gilda Farshidfar Tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

February 16, 2021

 February 22, 5:30 p.m.: Online discussion with

Live Chat: “Transparency Pioneers – What the Informati-

can learn from environmental information”

 
The NABU state chairman Johannes Enssle and the state

commissioner for data protection and freedom of information

Stefan Brink discuss on Monday, February 22, in the live

Stream conversation about government transparency.

 

In the round of talks “Pioneers for Transparency – What the

freedom of information can learn from environmental information”

Johannes Enssle and Stefan Brink discuss, among others

about what the different legal bases for the

Citizens mean whether the different regulations

 

- 2 -

can be combined and made more uniform,

what freedom of information advocates say about environmental

tivists can learn and whether a comprehensive transparency

the problem of the confusing multitude of regulations

genes and responsibilities.

 

So that citizens in Baden-Württemberg are democratically active

can participate and help shape it, they need information

from trusted sources. This information must

available simply and without barriers in analogue and digital form

stand. Existing freedom of information laws provide

Although the possibility of submitting information to public

ask, however, in practice it is often complicated

ter than expected. It is still too difficult to

through the thicket to the desired information:

Various legal bases for consumer, environmental

and general official information leads to different

different responsibilities, restrictions and procedures

wise.

 

Freedom of Information Officer Stefan Brink says:

“Transparency is the basis of trust – and it can

Let's talk about the experiences in the area more transparent

Environmental information has been collected, learn a lot! "

 

NABU state chairman Johannes Enssle adds: “One

stable democracy needs a strong civil society. Of the

free access to factual information for citizens is included

one of the basic requirements. Openly accessible only

information and transparent processes ensure democratic

cal participation on an equal footing with state institutions.

We are on the legal basis for freedom of information

in Europe quite far, but there is a lack in many places

 

- 3 -

of the public administration is still working on the practical implementation

tongue. Again and again, citizens and civil society

organizations such as NABU to enforce their domestic

sue for information rights first in court. Also with us

Baden-Württemberg are still urgent improvements in the

area of transparency laws and the implementation of information

mation rights necessary.”

 

 

Meeting:

“Transparency Pioneers – What the Freedom of Information of

can learn from environmental information"

 

Monday, 22.2. at 5.30 p.m.:

 

Interested parties can take part in the conversation via live chat and

bring. The event will be moderated by the deputy

Head of Freedom of Information Sabine Grullini.

 

Registration:

The access link is on the homepage of the state commissioner

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/transparenz/.

 

 

 

