 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
Athens, 10-03-2022
               No. Prot.: 643
 

 

A P O F A S H 13 / 2022

 

the

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
plenary session via teleconference on Tuesday, 01-03-2022 at 10.30 a.m., after
invitation of its President in order to approve its Amendment
Regulation of its Operation. The President of the Authority Konstantinos was present
Menoudakos and
regular members Spyros Vlachopoulos, Konstantinos
Lambrinoudakis, Charalambos Anthopoulos, Christos Kalloniatis and Ekaterini
Iliadou. Ms. Maria Psalla, alternate member of Grigorios, was also present
Tsolias, who, despite being legally summoned in writing, did not appear
obstacle. By order of the President, Irini Papageorgopoulou attended as
Secretary and Georgia Palaiologou as coordinator of the teleconference,
employees of the Department of Administrative Affairs of the Authority.
Article 8 par. 2 of the Regulation of Operation of the Authority provides for the
ability
in the
Department substitute member, who participates in the meeting even if he is
the regular member present, but without a vote in this case. From the layout
it is not clear whether she can be appointed to the Department as a rapporteur
substitute member of the Authority who is not a member thereof. In view of this it is required
to amend the relevant provision in order to provide this possibility, without
the rest of the settings of the amended provision are changed. By
in this way it is possible to make fuller use of all tactics and
alternate members of the Authority and as a result the increase in cases
which are examined by the Department. For the above reason I recommend that it be replaced
paragraph 2 of article 8 of the Operating Regulations as follows: "2. In

in the plenary session

is defined as

rapporteur

and

to

Plenary and the Department are attended by regular members. In case of absence or
if a regular member is obstructed, the corresponding substitute participates. Exceptionally
the presence of substitute members is also possible if deemed appropriate
by the President of the Authority. A substitute can also be designated as a rapporteur
member, who participates in the composition of the Plenary or the Section, even if
the regular member participates, but without the right to vote in the latter
case. In the Department, a rapporteur and substitute member may be appointed
Authority that does not participate in its formation. Auditor branch employees,
participate in meetings and conferences, without the right to vote, on
consideration of cases in which assistant rapporteurs have been appointed."
The Plenary accepted the proposal and decided to replace it
paragraph 2 of article 8 of the Operating Regulations during the proposal.
 
The Amendment to the Operating Regulations is published in its Gazette
of Government and on the website of the Authority and follows at the end of it
decision.
The validity of the Amendment starts from its publication in the Gazette
Government.

 

The President of the Authority

 

Konstantinos Menudakos

 

 

 

 

 

The Secretary

 Irini Papageorgopoulou

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
Decision 13/2022

Amendment of the Regulation of Operation of the Protection Authority
Personal Data.

PRINCIPLE OF PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION

Taking into consideration:

1. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Law 4624/2017 "Principle
Personal Data Protection, its implementation measures
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and
Council of April 27, 2016 for the protection of nature
persons against the processing of personal data
and incorporation into national legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680
European Parliament and the Council of 27 April 2016
and other provisions." (A' 137).

2. The decision of 9/10.2.2022 "Approval of the Regulation of Operation of

Personal Data Authority" (Government Gazette B΄ 879).

3. The minutes from 10-03-2022 of the Plenary.

4. The fact that no expense is caused by the provisions herein

at the expense of the state budget.

Approves the amendment of its Operating Regulations (Decision
9/10.2.2022) as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article only

Paragraph 2 of Article 8 of Decision 9/2022 of the Protection Authority
Personal Data "Approval of Regulation of Operation of
Personal Data Authority" (Government Gazette B΄ 879) is replaced as
following: "2. Regular members participate in the Plenary Session and the Department. In
in case of absence or disability of a regular member, the corresponding member participates
substitute. Exceptionally, the presence of
substitute members if deemed appropriate by its President
Principle. An alternate member, the
which participates in the composition of the Plenary or the Section, even if
the regular member participates, but without the right to vote in the latter
case. The Department may appoint a lecturer and a substitute
a member of the Authority who does not participate in its formation. Industry employees
auditors, participate in meetings and conferences, without right
vote, in the examination of cases, in which assistants have been appointed
rapporteurs."

This decision to be published in the Government Gazette.

 
The President of the Authority

 

      

Konstantinos Menudakos

 

 

 

Athens, March 10, 2022

 

 

The Secretary

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

