  Tuesday, May 9, 2023 2: Press releases Conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities meets for the 105th time Press release
the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference) will meet on May 10th and 11th, 2023 in Rendsburg. This year, the chairperson of the conference is the State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein, Dr. H. c. Marit Hansen. The participants of the conference will exchange views on topics such as employee data protection, scoring, automated data analysis by the police and intelligence services and radio-based cold water meters. Hansen is looking forward to exciting discussions among colleagues from the data protection supervisory authorities: "Data protection is always characterized by technical progress and current case law - that runs through our agenda. At the data protection conference, we agree, for example, on recommendations to the legislature and assistance for data processors." The agenda is published here: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/uploads/dsk/Tagenordnung_105._DSK_homepage.pdf
The data protection conference consists of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments. It has the task of safeguarding and protecting basic data protection rights, achieving uniform application of European and national data protection law and working together to promote its further development. This is done in particular through resolutions, resolutions, guidelines, standardization, statements, press releases and determinations. Contact:
Chair of the Data Protection Conference 2023
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98
24103 Kiel
Telephone: 0431 988 1289
E-Mail: dsk2023@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: employee data protection, dsk, news, police, press releases, scoringArticles with similar topics: Data protection ensures free democratic elections - Planned EU regulation on transparency and targeting of political advertising Announcement - "Save the date!" - Summer Academy in Kiel on September 11th, 2023 5 years of the General Data Protection Regulation: Proven benchmark, implementable, internationally recognized 105th Conference of the Conference of Independent Data Protection Supervisory Authorities: Employee data protection, AI in the police, wireless water meter, sovereign cloud Everything you about Want to know data protection, simply explained - the youth portal youngdata.de with a new website