 

Attachment to the press release for the 2022 annual report of Berliner
Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI) –
Selected Topics

The year 2022 in numbers

In 2022, the BlnBDI received a total of 4,445 submissions from those affected. The number is still up
a high level, but lower than in the previous year (5,671 entries), when there were particularly many
People complained in connection with the fight against the pandemic. Also the number of
reported data breaches decreased slightly to 1,068 incidents, commonly caused by
Malware attacks or vulnerabilities (chap. 18, p. 166).

The authority issued 269 warnings, seven warnings and four orders last year
communicated to private and public bodies. She also imposed fines of
a total of 716,575 euros (chap. 18.4, p. 168).

Digitization of administration

The digitization of the Berlin administration is slowly picking up speed, the BlnBDI advises on the
data protection-compliant design. The report describes the successful consultations at the
electronic file and the digital procedure for applying for an electronic
Residence permit for Ukrainian refugees. In addition, the authority accompanies the forthcoming reform
of the Online Access Act (Chapter 1, p. 15).

interior

In the case of data protection violations by the police and the public prosecutor's office, the BlnBDI can only do one
make a complaint; it has no effective authority to issue orders. Since this is the European
contradicts the specifications, the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings
Germany (chap. 2.1, p. 19).

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI)

Alt-Moabit 59-61, 10555 Berlin
Entrance: Alt-Moabit 60

Phone: (030) 13889-900
Fax: (030) 215 50 50

Responsible: Simon Rebiger
Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
Internet: www.datenschutz-berlin.de

Due to media reports, the BlnBDI again took over the evaluation of mobile phones
Foreigners: inside through the State Office for Immigration in view. Because of the used
Software and the great depth of intervention of the measures based on it is of a high level
risk for the rights and freedoms of those affected (Chapter 2.4, p. 25). In another
procedure, the authority issued a warning to the State Office for Immigration because it was in the file
a citizen contained documents on criminal proceedings that would have long since been deleted
(Chap. 2.6, p. 27).

The BlnBDI regularly becomes aware of cases in which police officers have access to
Misuse police databases to collect data from family members, friends or
Ask neighbors. In the reporting period, the BlnBDI initiated 18 proceedings against
Police officers initiated and issued 16 fines (chap. 12.3, p. 114). Private
Queries in official databases were also made in job centers and state and district offices
established; here the authority issued 4 fine notices (chap. 12.4, p. 115).

Advice in the public sector

Two projects in the
areas of youth welfare and universities. In both cases, the BlnBDI was involved at an early stage,
to advise on data protection. A Berlin university rejected this after the consultation
their original idea of comprehensively using proctoring software for study aptitude tests
monitor (chap. 7.1, p. 70). The new implementation regulations for youth welfare in the
Criminal proceedings were adapted to the GDPR in a practice-oriented manner through advice from the BlnBDI (chap.
4.1, p. 46).

parties

In the aftermath of the federal election, the authority dealt intensively with election advertising and the
Campaign app security. In one case, a citizen who addressed personally complained
found election advertising from the national association of a political party in his mailbox. Here posed
the BlnBDI found several violations and imposed a warning against which the party is suing
raised (chap. 14.1, p. 130).

Many complaints reach the authority about personalized celebrity testimonials
Politics and business that campaigned for a Bundestag candidate. The BlnBDI presented several here
data protection violations, e.g. because the recipients know about the true sender and origin
of the dates were left in the dark. The BlnBDI is currently examining the imposition of a fine
against the responsible district branch of the party (chapter 14.2, p. 131).

2

Effects of the Corona Pandemic

In the third year of the corona pandemic, the authority also identified data protection violations in the
related to the fight against the pandemic. The deficiencies already identified in the last year
in the appointment booking for the Berlin vaccination centers were not turned off in 2022 either. The
Health administration continued to refuse to involve the service provider in compliance with data protection
and had copies of the vaccination documents stored in the user accounts without any legal basis (Section 5.2,
p. 57).

Also with the invitations of the health administration to the corona vaccination to minors
the content requirements for legally prescribed data protection information
not taken into account (chap. 5.4, p. 60).

In 2022, the BlnBDI again imposed several fines due to improper use
of contact data collected in shops or restaurants to document attendance
(Chap. 12.1, p. 112). Further fines were imposed on corona test centers due to
registration forms that violate data protection regulations, the disposal of paper forms on the street
or the collection of unnecessary data.

Health

Many inquiries and complaints reached the BlnBDI from patients to one
Appointment management system of a service provider used by medical practices. In some cases
Appointment confirmations and reminders via SMS or email repeatedly came from the wrong people
people. In addition, neither the practices nor the service provider offered an option to unsubscribe
the system (chap. 5.3, p. 60).

A data breach of unknown extent occurred in a hospital. Due to lack
safety precautions, an unauthorized person repeatedly entered the archive there,
stolen patient files and distributed them to mailboxes in the vicinity. Since that
hospital had no overview of the stored files, the exact number remains unclear (chap.
5.5, p. 62).

Sports

Many data breaches continue to happen because of an open mailing list when sending e-mails
is used in which all recipients are revealed. This is also the case with sports clubs and

3

A common problem in fitness studios (chap. 2.7, p. 31).

The BlnBDI had to intervene in sporting events that require participation
dependent on the publication of photos. Because a combination of membership,
Participation or performance of a contract with the processing of data that is not required for this
not allowed (chap. 2.9, p. 34).

In one particularly serious case, the authority imposed a fine on you
Sports photographers who take photos of minors at sporting events without the consent of the
parents published. There were more than 16,000 photos of him on his freely accessible website
Minors who participated in a swimming competition in bathing suits
had for sale (chap. 12.7, p. 119).

youth and education

Under what conditions photos, videos and sound recordings of children in day-care centers are made
and may be passed on, also caused many inquiries in 2022. Here offers one
Brochure Assistance, jointly with the Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family
was published (chap. 4.3, p. 48).

As in previous years, the BlnBDI dealt with the digitization of the
Schools. During 2021 marked by positive developments such as the new Berlin school law
was largely at a standstill in 2022. The education administration fetched the offered one
Advice on many data protection issues either did not take or accepted the recommendations
not (chap. 4, p. 50).

Privacy at work

The BlnBDI regularly receive complaints from employees who work with
video cameras are monitored. In 2022, the authority intervened in several cases and was able to
ensure that the cameras are switched off (chap. 8.1, p. 74).

The social changes in connection with increasing digitization
also raise questions when dealing with employee data. Here they spoke
Federal and state data protection supervisory authorities for specific legal regulations
of a new Employee Data Protection Act (Section 8.3, p. 77).

4

Business

A frequent topic of many complaints is identity abuse in online trading. How himself
data subjects can protect against this and what measures companies can take to protect themselves
must be taken is described in the annual report (section 10.6, p. 94). Another perennial favourite
Requests for copies of old bank statements. Banking institutions are obliged to inform data subjects
as part of a request for information, at least the transaction data of a bank account free of charge
to make them available (chap. 10.8, p. 99).

After a credit agency for years a total of 27 wrong addresses and 13 wrong dates of birth
to a complainant, the data protection officer issued two fines in
A total of 46,500 euros (chap. 12.6, p. 118). The highest fine was 525,000 euros
against a trading group due to a conflict of interest of the company
Data Protection Officer. The company had selected a person for this function who
had to control decisions that she herself had made in other functions (chap. 12.5, p.
116).

Freedom of Information

As the supervisory authority for freedom of information in the state of Berlin, the BlnBDI has again
Followed developments on the Transparency Act, which ultimately failed again. Continue to bet
administrations often fail to adequately manage access to official information. The annual report
describes the problems based on several individual cases (chap. 16, p. 142).

The full report is available on the website:
www.datenschutz-berlin.de/annual-report-2022

5

