1/7

Procedure No.: PS/00348/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before
SANCHEZ JOYEROS TEMPO 2016 SL, by virtue of a claim filed by
A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) / on its own initiative and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 06/18/2018, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data from D. A.A.A. (hereinafter the complainant), in which he denounces
SANCHEZ JEWELERS TEMPO 2016, S.L. (hereinafter SANCHEZ JOYEROS), by
whereby it states the existence of a video surveillance camera installation in
the aforementioned establishment on the entrance to it capturing images of people
that circulate on the sidewalk and possibly from the vehicles that circulate on the road,
violating the right to privacy.
Along with your written complaint, provide a photograph of the location of the camera.

SECOND: SANCHEZ JOYEROS was required by this Agency on 08/06/2018 to
that accredited in the reference file ***FILE.1, the documentation
certifying that the installation of the camera was in accordance with the regulations of
data protection and that it was duly signposted.

SANCHEZ JOYEROS in brief of allegations of 09/12/2018 and 10/04/2018
replied to this body providing a certificate from Alexma, S.A. installation company
of the recording system of the establishment, resolution on recognition of low
in the special regime for self-employed or self-employed workers
sole administrator of the company; letter from the sole administrator in which
informed of the cancellation of the company's activity, providing form 036 of cancellation
in the activity.

However, after analyzing the response and documentation offered by the company
consulted the RMC and Axesor, it is confirmed that the company is still active and that in
telephone call made to the establishment where the
outdoor camera denounced, the clerk who attends to the acting inspector
informed that the commercial establishment is open, which shows that the
establishment continues to operate and has activity.

THIRD: On 12/03/2018, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure for the presumed infraction of the
article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 58 section 2
of the same norm, considering that the sanction that could correspond would be
WARNING, without prejudice to what may result from the investigation.

FOURTH: Proof of diligence of the instructor of 02/06/2019 in which it is stated
that the sole administrator of the entity SANCHEZ JOYEROS TEMPO 2016, S.L.,
has put in telephone contact to declare that the aforementioned business is discharged

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

as already confirmed in the response to the request for information from the Service of
Inspection; that there may be some confusion when using the same denomination
new business located in the commercial premises of which he was administrator and that,
However, as soon as possible, it will provide proof of the elimination of the camera
placed on the facade of the premises.

In an e-mail of the same date, he provided a photograph of the facade of the premises where he no longer
the camera appears.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, there have been
accredited the following proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 06/18/2018, the claimant's letter was entered in the AEPD
denouncing SANCHEZ JOYEROS, declaring the existence of a security camera
video surveillance on the facade of the aforementioned establishment focusing on the entrance to the
himself capturing images of people walking on the sidewalk and possibly of
vehicles circulating on the road, violating the right to privacy. Contribute
camera location photography.

SECOND: The administrator of the company, who contributed the cancellation in the special regime
of self-employed or self-employed workers and the official form 036 of low in the
activity, in an email dated 02/06/2019 has provided a photograph in which the
removal of the anterior chamber.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

The third transitory provision of the new LOPDGDD establishes: "Regime

transitory procedures:

II

1. The procedures already initiated at the entry into force of this organic law shall be

shall be governed by the above regulations, unless this organic law contains provisions
more favorable for the interested party.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD indicates: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

It is necessary to point out some of the requirements that the treatment of
images through a video surveillance system to be in accordance with the
regulations in force:

III

- Respect the principle of proportionality.
- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of 4
april.
- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space since the treatment of images in
public places can only be carried out, where appropriate, by the Forces and
Security forces. Spaces cannot be captured or recorded either.
property of third parties without the consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of
the people who are in them.
- The duty to inform those affected provided for in article
12 of the RGPD 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the terms referred to both
in the aforementioned article, as well as in articles 13 and 14 of said regulation, resulting
of application -by not contradicting the provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the
manner provided for in article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, on Data Processing
Personal for Surveillance Purposes through Camera Systems or
Video cameras (Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection).

Specifically, it must:

1. Place at least one informative badge in the video-monitored areas

located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.
In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, in the distinctive
aforementioned information must identify, at least, the existence of a
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in these provisions.

2. Keep available to those affected the information referred to in the

quoted GDPR.

The defendant is charged with the violation of article 5 RGPD, Principles relating to

to treatment, which provides the following:

IV

"1. The personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

Also Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), in its article 22,
Treatment for video surveillance purposes, in its sections 1, 2, 4 and 5 establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of persons and goods, as well as their
installations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that

is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or
strategic installations or infrastructures linked to transport, without
In no case may it involve capturing images of the interior of a home
private.

(…)

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

(…)

The denounced facts take the form of the installation of a security camera
video surveillance at the entrance of the establishment capturing images of people who
circulating on the sidewalk and possibly from the vehicles that circulate on the road,
violating the right to privacy.

It should be noted that the sole administrator of the company provided a resolution
on recognition of leave in the special regime of self-employed workers
own or self-employed, providing the official form 036 of withdrawal from the activity.

However, he has stated that there has been a certain misunderstanding by being
the same denomination used by the new business located in the commercial premises
of which he was an administrator, having provided a photographic report in which the
camera that has been the cause of this procedure and that was installed in the
upper part of the facade of the premises.

Article 83 of the RGPD, General conditions for the imposition of fines

administrative, in its section 5, letter a) states that:

v

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”.

And article 72 of the LOPDGDD, Infractions considered very serious,

establishes:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

 (…)”

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: “Each authority

of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with

warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)”

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations. About
when it is appropriate to opt for one or the other route, the application of article 83 of the RGPD
or the corrective measure of warning of article 58.2.b), the rule itself in its
Recital 148 establishes the following:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

It should be noted that the defendant has proven that the camera installed

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

and that captured images of the sidewalk has been eliminated, providing documentary evidence
of the manifested.

In the same way, the adoption of any specific measure is not urged to
take, having proven the adoption of the appropriate measures to put an end to the
infraction revealed and its adaptation to the new principles that it has
GDPR of course.

To conclude, taking into account the absence of intentionality, the absence
of damages, the behavior of the claimed collaborating with the Agency
in the solution of the incidence produced and the measures adopted mitigate more if
There is guilt in the present case, for which a warning is appropriate.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE SANCHEZ JOYEROS TEMPO 2016, S.L., with NIF
A81479107, for an infringement of article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the
provided in article 83.5 of the aforementioned RGPD and, qualified as very serious in article
72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD, a sanction of WARNING in accordance with the
provided for in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SANCHEZ JOYEROS TEMPO
2016, S.L., and, in accordance with art. 77.2 of the RGPD, INFORM the claimant, D. A.A.A.,
about the outcome of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
114.1 c) of the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

