From 1 November, the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman will only receive secure messages via Valtori's Secure Message and Secure Form services


   


Publication date 
1.10.2024
 11.40


Type:Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 From 1 November 2024, it will only be possible to send secure messages to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman using the Secure Message service provided by Valtori. It will also be possible to send confidential or sensitive documents via our electronic notification forms on Valtori's Secure Form service. This will further improve data security and harmonise the authority's practices. For security reasons, the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman cannot process secure messages sent through services other than those provided by the Government ICT Centre Valtori. It is possible to send secure messages to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman via the Secure Message service of the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice and notification forms via the website of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman:

Send a security message using Valtori's Secure Message service of the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice (om.fi)
Notification forms of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman (tietosuoja.fi)
 We recommend using the Secure Message service if there is no online form for your matter. Using the forms of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, organisations can report personal data breaches, send a request for prior consultation or send the contact details of their data protection officer. Private individuals may send requests to exercise their rights as data subjects and to report instances of maladministration in the processing of personal data. The form is sent securely to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman via the Security Form service provided by Valtori. The submitted form can be saved as a PDF file. Further information:  Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman: tietosuoja(at)om.fi, tel. +358 29 566 6768 












forms


