Decision

Diary no

2020-10-09

DI-2020-6231

ABB AB

Supervision according to the data protection regulation - ABB's
form for recruitment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority writes off the case.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has started supervision of ABB AB, 559193-0903
(hereinafter the company) due to a complaint. The appellant has
among other things claimed that the company asks in connection with recruitment
Jobseekers fill out a form that contains questions about, among other things
alcohol and drug addiction, cases with the Crown Bailiff and convictions
criminal convictions. The form has been attached to the complaint.
The company has commented on the matter and stated, among other things, following. The current
the form has previously been used in recruitment. The form has been sent to
the candidates asked to fill the form and bring the filled
the form for the interview. In connection with the interview temporarily goes
the candidate and recruitment officer go through the answers in the form together.
The form is then destroyed or returned to the candidate. The form
is not saved by the company in any way. The intention is that the form should not
is registered electronically by the company, but the handling has taken place entirely manually.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (2)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-6231

Justification of decisions
The Data Inspectorate's supervision only concerns the company's processing of
personal data collected through the form that Datainspektionen
took part in.
Article 2.1 of the data protection regulation1 states that the regulation shall
applied to such processing of personal data as whole or in part
carried out automatically as well as other processing than automatic by
personal data that is or will be included in a register.
The company's handling of the personal data requested in the form
does not involve such automated processing, or non-automated
processing in registers referred to in Article 2.1 of the Data Protection Regulation. The
the current handling of personal data is thus not covered by the data protection regulation's scope of application. The case must therefore be dismissed from further action
handling.

This decision has been made by the unit manager Catharina Fernquist after
presentation by lawyer Albin Brunskog.
Catharina Fernquist, 2020-10-09 (This is an electronic signature)

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
1

2 (2)

