 

                                                                

                                                   

 

Press release from the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments from December 28, 2020

 

 
 
 

 

 
Preliminary legal certainty for data transfers to the UK -
Draft Brexit deal offers four-month transition period from January 1st
2021

 

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and
Countries (DSK) assigns companies, authorities and other institutions in Germany
points out that in the final provisions of the draft trade and
cooperation agreement between the United Kingdom and the European
schen Union a new transitional regulation for data transfers is provided,
which prevents the serious legal uncertainties previously feared (Article 10A
Interim provision for transmission of personal data to the United Kingdom, p. 406 ff.).

According to this, transfers of personal data from the EU to the
the Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for a transitional period
Transmissions to a third country (Art. 44 GDPR) are considered. this period
begins when the agreement enters into force and ends when the EU Commission
adequacy decisions relating to the United Kingdom pursuant to Article 45(3).
GDPR and Art. 36 Para. 3 Directive (EU) 2016/680, but at the latest
after four months. This end date can be extended by two months if
none of the parties involved objects.

Andreas Schurig: "This means that transmissions to the United Kingdom are
possible under the previous conditions. Serious difficulties for
the affected companies are thus initially avoided. However, now the
The EU Commission has a duty to present viable adequacy decisions that
also take into account the current case law of the European Court of Justice
and by the Member States as well as by the European Data Protection Board
will have to be carefully examined."

 

Questions to Mr. Andreas Schneider, spokesman for the Saxon data
protection officer, 0351 – 85471-120; andreas.schneider@slt.sachsen.de

 

 

 

