Postal address:  
Box 8114  
104 20 Stockholm  
Website:  
www.imy.se  
Email:  
imy@imy.se  
Phone:  
08-657 61 00  
1(3)  

Nordea Bank Abp, branch in Sweden  
Sent via email  

Decision following supervision under the  
Data Protection Regulation – Nordea  
Bank Abp, branch in Sweden  
Decision of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection finds that Nordea Bank Abp, branch in Sweden has  
satisfied the complainant's request for access. Against this background, the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection does not find grounds to take any further action in the matter.  

The case is closed.  
Account of the supervisory case  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) has initiated supervision regarding Nordea Bank Abp,  
branch in Sweden (hereinafter Nordea or the bank) in order to investigate a complaint about the right to  
access under Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation.  
The complainant has primarily stated the following. The complainant has requested access from Nordea  
regarding a recording of a conversation between the complainant and one of Nordea's  
employees. The complainant has not received a copy of the conversation where the voice of Nordea's  
employee is discernible, which the complainant has requested.  
Nordea has primarily stated the following. The complainant has requested to receive the  
recording of the relevant conversation. Nordea has accommodated the request by allowing the complainant  
to listen to the recording on-site at Nordea. The complainant has further been offered a transcription of  
the conversation as well as a copy of the audio file with the recording where the voice of Nordea's  
employee has been edited out, as it has been assessed to adversely affect the employee's rights to disclose  
their voice.  
Justification of the decision  
Applicable provisions, etc.  
The right to access is regulated in Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation. The right to access  
includes, among other things, that the data controller is obliged to provide confirmation to a data subject, i.e., an  
identified or identifiable natural person, who requests it, regarding whether personal data concerning the  
data subject is being processed or not. If such data is being processed, the data controller must, among other  
things, provide the data subject with a copy of the personal data being processed. This right to a copy shall, however,  
not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.  
The purpose of the right to access is to enable the data subject to be aware that processing is taking place and  
to be able to verify that it is lawful. The right to receive a copy of personal data includes a right for the data  
subject to receive an exact and comprehensible representation of all personal data that the data controller  
processes about him or her.  
IMY's assessment  
The complainant's voice, which appears in a telephone conversation, constitutes personal data about the  
complainant, which the complainant thus has the right to receive a copy of in an audio file. However, the voice of  
Nordea's employee does not constitute personal data about the complainant. Regarding the part of the  
telephone conversation that consists of statements from Nordea's employee, it is therefore sufficient that the  
information, to the extent that it constitutes personal data about the complainant, is provided through a  
transcription of the conversation.  
In the case, it has been revealed that Nordea has provided access by offering an audio file containing the  
complainant's voice as well as a transcription of the conversation. IMY thus finds that Nordea has satisfied the  
complainant's request for access. Against this background, the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection does  
not find grounds to take any further action in the matter.  
The case shall therefore be closed.  
-------------------------------  
This decision has been made by the acting unit manager Nidia Nordenström after presentation by the lawyer  
Fredrik Löfgren.  
Nidia Nordenström, 2023-06-12   (This is an electronic signature)  

Copy to  
The complainant  

2 Article 15.1 of the Data Protection Regulation.  
3 Article 15.3 of the Data Protection Regulation.  
4 Article 15.4 of the Data Protection Regulation.  
5 Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of May 4, 2023 in case C-487/21.  

Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Case number: IMY-2023-4559  
3(3)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

How to appeal  
If you wish to appeal the decision, you should write to the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection. Indicate in  
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal must be received by  
the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection no later than three weeks from the day you received the  
decision. If the appeal has been submitted in a timely manner, the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection will  
forward it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination.  
You may email the appeal to the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection if it does not contain any  
privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be subject to confidentiality. The authority's contact  
details are provided on the first page of the decision.