

Bonn/Berlin, February 18, 2020


Press release 04/2020


EDPB agreed on evaluation of the GDPR
On February 18, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) decided on a joint response to the evaluation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The European Commission had asked the EDPB to contribute to the evaluation process. In its reply, the Committee emphasizes the importance of the GDPR for protecting and strengthening the fundamental right to data protection within the EU.



The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Professor Ulrich Kelber, said: My colleagues and I consider large-scale legal changes to the GDPR to be premature. However, we see a need for improvements in practical implementation. This applies in particular in the area of cooperation between the data protection supervisory authorities in cross-border procedures. Differences in national administrative procedures must not lead to the effectiveness of enforcing the GDPR against companies that have committed data protection breaches being reduced.
With regard to international data traffic, the EDPB emphasizes the importance of the European Commission's adequacy decisions. He calls on the Commission to revise the decisions on EU standard contractual clauses for data transfers to third countries.
The EDPB is an independent European body that contributes to the uniform application of data protection rules in the European Union. It consists of representatives of the national data protection authorities and the European Data Protection Supervisor. The Committee meets monthly and is based in Brussels.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











