 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 13/2020 on the the draft decision of the competent 
supervisory authority of Italy regarding  the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

 

Adopted on 25 May 2020 

 

Adopted 

1 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 4 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the IT accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies ...... 5 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS .......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ................................................................................................................ 5 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................... 7 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................................ 7 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................... 7 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, as last modified 
and adopted on 10 September 2019 
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of  effectively  monitoring  the  code.  The  GDPR  does  not  define  the  term  “accreditation”.  However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

3 

Adopted 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

 (4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Italian Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “IT SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 13 February 2019.  

 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

4. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

Adopted 

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (Article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

IT SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the IT SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation.  The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the IT accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all  codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

 
For the sake of consistency and clarity, the EDPB encourages the IT SA to replace throughout the draft 
accreditation requirements the terms “association/ organisation owning the CoC” and “association/ 
organisation submitting the CoC” with the term “Code owner” in line with the terminology used in the 
Guidelines. 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

11. 

 
The  Board  observes  that,  in  section  3  of  the  IT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“autonomy, 
independence,  impartiality”),  it  is  mentioned  that  “accreditation  shall  be  granted  if  autonomy, 
independence and impartiality of the monitoring body as required to fulfil the respective monitoring 

Adopted 

5 

obligations are demonstrated (...)”. The Board encourages the IT SA to delete reference to autonomy, 
for the sake of clarity and consistency. 

12. 

13. 

For the sake of clarity, the Board encourages the IT SA to clarify the meaning of “membership of the 
monitoring body” and “term of the monitoring body” under section 3a (“legal status and decision-
making process”), first paragraph of the draft accreditation requirements 

Furthermore, the Board is of the opinion that internal monitoring bodies cannot be set up within a 
code member, but only within a code owner. Therefore, the Board recommends that this is clarified 
and reflected in the text of the draft accreditation requirements in the second paragraph of section 
3a. 

14.  With  regard  to  the  legal  status  and  decision-making  process  of  the  IT  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements (section 3a), the Board acknowledges the impartiality of the monitoring body from the 
code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies. However, the Board is of 
the opinion that these requirements should be further specified, particularly with regard to any legal 
and  economic  links  that  may  exist  between  the  monitoring  body  and  the  code  owner  or  code 
members. For this reason, the Board encourages the IT SA to amend this paragraph accordingly. 

15.  With regard to the financial independence of the IT SA’s draft accreditation requirements (section 3b), 
the Board notes that the monitoring body shall obtain financial support for its monitoring role in a way 
that does not compromise its independence. However, the Board considers that further explanation 
is needed as to how long-term financial stability of the monitoring body is ensured. In particular, the 
Board  recommends  that  the  IT  SA  amend  the  requirements  in  order  to  explain  how  financial 
independence is guaranteed in case one or more funding sources are no longer available.  

16. 

17. 

18. 

Furthermore,  the  Board  considers  that  the  section  concerning  the  financial  independence  should 
address  the  boundary  conditions  that  determine  the  concrete  requirements  for  financial 
independence and sufficient resources. These include the number, size and complexity of the code 
members (as monitored entities), the nature and scope of their activities (which are the subject of the 
code) and the risk(s) associated with the processing operation(s). Therefore, the Board encourages the 
IT SA to redraft the requirements accordingly.  

The  Board  takes  note  of  the  requirements  with  regard  to  the  organisational  independence,  under 
section  3c  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements,  however  it  considers  that  these  requirements 
should be further specified. For this reason, the Board encourages the IT SA to redraft this part of the 
requirements  by  adding  examples  of  how  such  independence  can  be  achieved.  For  example,  the 
organisational independence can be demonstrated with a differentiated payroll, analytical accounting 
systems  with  different  responsibility  centres  or  any  other  logical  separation  that  can  rise  firewalls 
between the monitoring body and the code owners or code members.  

The  second  explanatory  note  under  section  3c  of  the  IT  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements 
(“organisational  independence”)  refers  to  the  use  of  sub-contractors  by  the  monitoring  body.  The 
Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  sub-contractors  should  be  able  to  ensure  the  same  degree  of 
safeguards provided by the monitoring body in performing their activities, including the same level of 
competence and expertise. At the same time, the monitoring body should be the ultimate responsible 
for all the decisions taken related to its monitoring function. Therefore, the Board encourages the IT 
SA to specify that, notwithstanding the sub-contractor’s responsibility and obligations, the monitoring 

Adopted 

6 

body is always the ultimate responsible for the decision-making and for compliance.  In addition, the 
Board is of the opinion that, even when subcontractors are used, the monitoring  body shall ensure 
effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity. The Board recommends the IT 
SA to explicitly add this obligation in the draft accreditation requirements. 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

19. 

20. 

 
The Board takes note of all the requirements included in the IT SA’s draft accreditation requirements 
in order  for the monitoring body to demonstrate that the exercise of its tasks and duties  does not 
result  in  a  conflict  of  interest  (section  4).  The  Board  encourages  the  IT  SA  to  add  examples  in  the 
requirements in this respect. For example, employees of the monitoring body should be required to 
report possible conflicts of interest.  

Furthermore, the Board is of the opinion that, for practical reasons, examples of cases where a conflict 
of interest could arise might be helpful. An example of a conflict of interest situation would be the case 
where personnel conducting audits or making decisions on behalf of a monitoring body had previously 
worked for the code owner, or for any of the organisations adhering to the code. Therefore, the Board 
encourages the IT SA to add some examples, similar to the one provided in this paragraph. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

21. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Italian Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

22.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the IT SA: 

1. clarify in the second paragraph of section 3a that internal monitoring bodies cannot be set up within 
a code member, but only within a code owner. 

2. explain in section 3b how financial independence is guaranteed in case one or more funding sources 
are no longer available. 

3.  add  in  section  3c  that  even  when  subcontractors  are  used,  the  monitoring  body  shall  ensure 
effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

23. 

This  opinion  is  addressed  to  the  Italian  supervisory  authority  and  will  be  made  public  pursuant  to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

24.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the IT SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within  two  weeks  after  receiving  the  opinion,  whether  it  will  amend  or  maintain  its  draft  decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

25. 

The IT SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

Adopted 

7 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

8 

