Representatives of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data of Bosnia and Herzegovina, led by Director Dr. Dragoljub Reljić and Deputy Director Ante Boras, along with their associates, were on a working visit to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on Monday, December 18, 2023.

Director Zdravko Vukić expressed satisfaction that the Agency can provide concrete knowledge from its area of work to the supervisory body of the neighboring country. "I am glad that with our previous experience and good practices we can contribute to your work and provide information to facilitate your path in adopting a national law that will be aligned with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. Our desire is to help Bosnia and Herzegovina on its European path through our framework of action."

Namely, Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a national legislative framework that is aligned with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and is in the process of amending the current Law; therefore, this meeting was an opportunity to share the Agency's experiences from the initial period of the Regulation's implementation. Additionally, during the working meeting, the delegation from Bosnia and Herzegovina was provided with information about the work and activities of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, particularly regarding supervisory activities and administrative monetary fines imposed by the Agency.

Furthermore, an agreement was reached on future cooperation between the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is soon expected to result in the signing of a joint agreement. The Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Dr. Dragoljub Reljić, thanked for the hospitality and emphasized that the information provided would assist the work of the supervisory body of Bosnia and Herzegovina. "I look forward to future intensive cooperation," said Director Reljić.

From left to right: Deputy Director Ante Boras, Director Dragoljub Reljić, Director of AZOP Zdravko Vukić, Deputy Director of AZOP Igor Vulje.