1/13

 File No.: EXP202103936

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated October 17, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against BANQUETES SANTA ANA, S.L. with NIF B30324107 (in
below, the claimed party). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:
following:

The claimant states that on October 23, 2021, the
hold a wedding celebration at the claimed restaurant and that such entity has
asked the couple celebrating the event to provide personal data of the
guests, including the ID number, for security in the face of the pandemic situation
by COVID-19, without providing information about data processing.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on November 17, 2021
as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

On December 11, 2021, this Agency received a written response
indicating that the claimed entity acts in accordance with the provisions of the
Order of 1/6/21 of the Ministry of Health, the alert levels are established
health by COVID-19 in the Region of Murcia, as well as the general measures and
applicable to the different sectors of activity in attention to the level of
health alert.

It goes on to explain that article 13.3.6 of said standard establishes that: the
The organizer of each event must have a specific security protocol
against the transmission of COVID19 and appoint a COVID coordinator, who will be the
responsible for applying the protocol, guaranteeing at all times the control of the capacity, the
Respect for the safety distance, the use of masks and the rest of the measures
applicable sanitary.

Similarly, the COVID coordinator will have the obligation to collect the data
identification of all attendees and workers, indicating the table that will be

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

occupies. This information must be provided to the competent General Directorate
in public health matters if so requested.

The requested party provides photos of the posters placed visibly in various
entrance areas to the facilities. In addition, on the website of the entity
https://banquetessantaana.com/,
privacy
https://banquetessantaana.com/politica-de-privacidad/, this is also reported
data processing and the possible transfer of said data to the competent authority
in health matters if required.

policy

in

of

the

 

 

 

 

 

Despite the fact that the vast majority of personal data collection is done from
physically in the premises of the person in charge, it has also been placed in the
web page, through the privacy policy, the information related to the treatment
of personal data of clients and guests, with special reference to the treatment
established by the Order of the Autonomous Community.

Likewise, the rights of access, rectification, deletion, opposition,
limitation and portability of personal data, as well as to go to the authority of
competent control in the matter (AEPD).

THIRD: On January 17, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

 Or: On 06/07/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
QUART
 
of Data agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged violation of the
Article 5.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation for the Protection of
Data, hereinafter GDPR), typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, in which
indicated that he had a period of ten days to present allegations.

This initiation agreement, which was served on the respondent under the rules
established in LPACAP, was collected on 07/29/2022, as stated in the acknowledgment
of receipt that works in the file.

FIFTH: On 08/04/2022, a letter was received from the presumed representative of the
claimed party requesting that a copy of the file be provided.

SIXTH: On 08/10/2022, the body instructing the procedure sends a written
of rectification so that accreditation of the representation is sent in order to
Provide a copy of the file.

The aforementioned agreement is notified to the claimed party on 08/10/2022, as stated
in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

SEVENTH: On August 11, 2022, this agency received a copy of the
Certificate of registration of power of attorney apud-acta in the electronic file of
judicial power of attorney that accredits the capacity of representation for any
judicial action in accordance with the provisions of article 25.1 of Law 1/2000, of
Civil Prosecution.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

EIGHTH: On 08/16/2022, this Agency receives, in due time and form,
brief of allegations to the initiation agreement in which, in summary, it stated that
requested the data of name, surname and ID because he understood that this was required by the
Article 13.3.6 of the Order of June 1, 2021 of the Ministry of Health.
Likewise, it explains that it applied the internal procedure that it applied in order to
minimize the data. He affirms that his intention has been at all times to respect the
current legal system, carrying out its actions with the utmost diligence
possible to finally highlight that they are not aware of any other complaint or claim
similar according to the claimed party because the attendees themselves already knew and understood
that they were going to ask for their personal data thanks to the information disclosed by the
local media regarding that the catering establishments were going to
be obliged to identify the attendees of this type of event.

NINTH: On February 6, 2023, a resolution proposal was formulated, in the
that a response was given to the allegations made and it was proposed that the
BANQUETES SANTA ANA, SL., with NIF B30324107, for a violation of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, with a fine of €5,000
(five thousand euros).

TENTH: On February 15, 2023, this agency received a letter of
allegations against the proposed resolution in which, in summary, the
following allegations:

1.- He begins his allegations by stating again that the request for the data of
attendees by Banquetes Santa Ana is produced by understanding that this is the
required the Order of June 1, 2021 of the Community Health Department
Autónoma de Murcia, attaching to its pleadings a copy of both said
Order, as of the recommendations (Recommendations for the elaboration of a
contingency plan for events and mass activities in the Community
Region of Murcia) issued by the Ministry of Health of said
Autonomous community.

2.- Next, it alludes to the criteria established in the AEPD press release
to highlight that it includes that it will be the health authorities who
reasonedly assess in which places it would be mandatory to identify themselves and conclude that
This is what happened in Murcia, expressly establishing the need to
Collect name, surname, ID and telephone number.

3.- To the above, he adds that his client established an internal protocol to
minimize the data processing that was requested and the people who had access to the
same.

4.- Next, it alludes to the applicability of the principle of guilt in the field
administrative sanction, citing various judgments of the Supreme Court in which
which includes the need for fraud or fault for the application of the right
administrative sanction and that lead him to conclude that in the present file there is no
the necessary assumptions are given to consider that there is an intentional act or
culpable on the part of the administrator without, in his opinion, what was done was in compliance
of a legal obligation issued by the competent authorities in the matter.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

5.- In her following allegation, the defendant refers to the tracking activity that was
carried out in the region of Murcia, contributing the Procedure Manual of the Team of
tracking of the COVID-19 disease in the region of Murcia in which the
importance of having contacts identified with name, surname and ID.

6.- Finally, the defendant argues, on the one hand, that the
aggravating circumstance of article 83.2 of the RGPD since the number of people is not accredited
affected as well as that, in his opinion, in case of being penalized it should be with
a warning as no actual damage has been found, there is no intentionality, or
recidivism, not dealing with data from special categories, not having obtained
benefit, not having the entity claimed as an activity data processing
personal and have collaborated at all times with the Agency.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: That on June 2, 2021 it had been published in the Official Gazette
of the Community of Murcia the Order of June 1, 2021 of the Ministry of Health,
establishing the health alert levels for COVID-19 in the Region of
Murcia, as well as the general and sectoral measures applicable to the different
sectors of activity in response to the health alert level.

SECOND: That on October 23, 2021, the claimant planned to hold
in the restaurant owned by BANQUETES SANTA ANA, S.L. A celebration
bridal.

THIRD: That from BANQUETES SANTA ANA, S.L. the couple has been requested
that celebrated the event that provided the personal data of the guests, among them
the ID number, for security in the face of the pandemic situation by COVID-19, without
Provide information about data processing.

FOURTH: Article 13.3.3 of the Order of June 1, 2021, of the Ministry of
Health of the Autonomous Community of Murcia that forced to "collect the data
identification of all attendees. Article 14.3.1 of said Order defines the
massive events such as "all those acts and calls that bring together more
than 200 people seated inside, or 300 seated outdoors, and not
fall into any other section”.

FIFTH: The "Recommendations for the preparation of a contingency plan for
massive events and activities in the Autonomous Community of the region of
Murcia" issued by the Ministry of Health include as elements for the
identification of event attendees the following information: name, surname, ID,
phone and email.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Agency is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In relation to the allegations presented in response to the proposed resolution,
make the following considerations

1.- As a PRELIMINARY QUESTION, it is stated that for the Resolution of the
this disciplinary file has answered the allegations presented by
the entity throughout the entire procedure and that, in order not to repeat itself, considers them
reproduced.

However, we proceed to influence what has already been stated in the proposed resolution
regarding the obligation to collect personal data from those attending the
wedding celebration held at the premises of the claimed party. and this for
how much it seems necessary to emphasize that it is not questioned at any time
the need to identify them to comply with the provisions of the Order of
June 1, 2021, but what is being raised in this file is the way
in which said mandate was carried out. Thus, it is recalled that the authorization made by the
ordering to carry out data processing does not imply permissiveness
absolute, but it must be adapted to the principles and other content provided for
in the RGPD and in the LOPDGDD, so the criteria already indicated continues to be applicable
relative to obtaining the least amount of data to be able to carry out a
identification of the possible subjects affected and the request being considered excessive
related to ID.

Even though the claimed party alleges an alleged applicability of the
recommendations issued by the Ministry of Health for the preparation of a plan
contingency for mass events and activities cannot be estimated
as it does not apply to celebrations after wedding ceremonies. Forks
that already in the Order of June 1, 2021 are clearly defined and differentiated
both situations, dedicating a specific article to each of them. While
that the former are defined and regulated in section 3 of article 14, with the rubric
"Mass events", the latter have their framing in article and section
different (13.3).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

2.- In relation to the allegation regarding the application of the principle of guilt to the
sanctioning administrative law, this Agency understands that, indeed, it is
fully applicable. Certainly, the principle of guilt, provided for in article
28 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, provides that they can only be penalized for
acts constituting an administrative offense those responsible for them, even
by way of simple non-observance, said responsibility cannot be demanded more
that with the concurrence of fraud or negligence, even by way of simple non-compliance.

In this same sense the Supreme Court pronounces (Chamber of Contentious-
Administrative Law, Section 5) in its Judgment no. 179/2023, of February 15, 2023:

(...) we must begin by remembering that guilt constitutes, in effect, a
requirement of administrative offenses, inherent in article 25 of the
Constitution, which has had an elaborate doctrinal construction in the field of
Criminal Law of which the Sanctioning Administrative is tributary. Said requirement
entails, in a tight synthesis for the purposes of the debate raised, that the fact that
is typified in the type of offense can and should be attributable to the subject that is
sanctions, the one who is considered guilty of it, that is, responsible, according to
the terminology of the Law of Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public administrations. This accusation contains an intellectual element according to
to which the typical action is not only executed by the subject himself, but is done to
conscience and will, that is, intentionally, or through more negligence
or less intense, as soon as the diligence that would be required in the
execution of the act to avoid the pernicious effect”.

However, this does not imply that it does not apply in the present case because,
as has been repeated on numerous occasions throughout the entire procedure,
the interpretation of how the obligation established in article should be carried out
13.3.6 of the Order of June 1, 2021 should have been carried out taking into account the
the whole of the legal system, in particular, the rules and provisions relating to
to the protection of personal data as these are obviously affected by it.

The need to identify the people attending various activities and centers
as a consequence of the health situation was a consolidated activity in
the time of the facts, so that the claimed party could have consulted what
personal data should be collected from those attending the events organized by it,
without being able to excuse himself in what he understands as a logical interpretation of the mandate
imposed by the norm.

3.- Regarding the Procedure Manual of the tracking team in the region of Murcia
provided by the claimed party, suffice it to say that it is not applicable to the present
proceedings. In the aforementioned document, the instructions, guidelines and
standards of action for professionals who carry out their work as
"trackers", defining them in fact as the professionals in charge of
contact patients positive for SARS-CoV-2 in order to carry out the
epidemiological survey, determine the epidemiological link and detect the
contacts, having to locate all those people who have been in
close contact.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

It is evident that there is no identity between the two subjects and that, while for
carry out the work entrusted to the professionals of the tracking teams can be
In some cases, it is necessary to obtain the DNI of the affected persons, in order to
COVID coordinator appointed for post-ceremony celebrations
nuptials does not need it, the collection of the data being sufficient
minimums that allow the identification of attendees.

4.- Lastly, the allegation regarding the non-applicability of the
aggravating the number of people affected. This is so by the very nature of the
sanctioned activity, consisting of collecting the DNIs of all
those attending the celebration after the wedding ceremony, thus being evident
that, even when the current file arises from the singular claim of one of the
affected this can not be the only one.

II

Article 5 of the GDPR establishes that personal data will be:

"a) treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with said purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be
considered incompatible with the initial purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, up-to-date; all measures will be taken
Reasonable reasons for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed ("accuracy");

e) maintained in such a way that the identification of the interested parties is allowed during
longer than necessary for the purposes of processing personal data; the
personal data may be retained for longer periods as long as
processed exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of appropriate technical and organizational measures that
imposes this Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
data subject ("retention period limitation");

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate data security
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility")."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

In the present case, and following the argumentation collected throughout the
disciplinary procedure, it is considered that the legality of the treatment of the registry of
data of those attending wedding celebrations is based on the assumption of the
Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR: "the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a
legal obligation applicable to the controller", since Law 2/2021, of 29
March, of urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination to make
In response to the health crisis caused by COVID-19, it establishes in its article 26, that
public or private entities in which the health authorities identify the
need to carry out traceability of contacts, they will have the obligation to provide the
health authorities the information they have or that is requested
regarding the identification and contact details of persons potentially
affected, without prejudice to the legal right to the protection of their data.

The obligation established in article 26 of Law 2/2021, of March 29, had its
regulatory development in the Community of Murcia through the Order of June 1,
2021 of the Ministry of Health, in which article 13, regarding the measures and
sectoral recommendations applicable depending on the health alert level
of each municipality, in its section 3.6) determined the obligation to collect the data
identification of all attendees and workers (specific for celebrations
related to wedding ceremonies and other similar celebrations).

The claimed party justifies its action in its interpretation of said precept, but
the absence of an express pronouncement regarding the categories of data
necessary to carry out the traces, does not authorize those responsible for
processing to collect personal data that they deem appropriate or that they
They understand that they are more adhering to the norm.

It is necessary to take into account that the processing of personal data in situations
health emergency, still have to be carried out in accordance with the
personal data protection regulations (RGPD and LOPDGDD), for which reason
apply all its principles, contained in article 5 of the GDPR, and among them that of
treatment of personal data with legality, loyalty and transparency, of limitation
of the purpose (in this case, to facilitate the tracing and follow-up of contacts of cases
positive or suspected of COVID-19), principle of limitation of the term of
conservation, and of course, and special emphasis must be placed on it, the principle of
data minimization. Regarding this last aspect, express reference must be made to
that the data processed must be exclusively those limited to those necessary
for the intended purpose, without being able to extend said treatment to
any other personal data not strictly necessary for said purpose.
Thus, it is essential not to confuse expediency with necessity, because the right
fundamental to data protection continues to apply normally, without prejudice
that, as has been said, the personal data protection regulations themselves
establishes that in emergency situations, for the protection of interests
essential public health and / or vital of natural persons, may treat the
health data necessary to prevent the spread of the disease that has
caused the health emergency.

As previously indicated, this Agency made its criteria public with
regarding the categories of data that should be collected to carry out

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

traces of possible infected by Covid-19, well before the
treatment in question.

If what you want is to be able to quickly locate a possible contact, you could
it will be enough to obtain a telephone number, together with the data of the day and time
assistance to the place. This criterion, together with the anonymization of the holders of the
device, has been assumed by the European Committee for Data Protection in the
Guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and tracking tools of
contacts in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic; criterion that can be extrapolated
to this situation with the pertinent adaptations.

IV.

Based on the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed has breached the principle of data minimization by requesting data
excessive for the purpose of treatment.

The known facts constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, for violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, with the scope expressed in
the aforementioned Fundamentals of Law, and which is typified in article
83.5.a) of the GDPR which, under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of
administrative fines”, provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

In order to establish the administrative fine that should be imposed, the following
provisions contained in article 83 of the GDPR, which states:

V

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
deterrents
effective,

provided

and

 

 

 

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding this last section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article
76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the fine to
impose on the claimed entity as responsible for a violation of the provisions
in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, in a
initial assessment, the following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

Under the circumstances of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the following is applied as an aggravating circumstance:

- The number of people affected (section a) because, even if it is a single
claimant, it is evident that at least all the persons
who attended the wedding as it was standard practice for everyone to request
the controversial data regarding all those attending the events held in
your place.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR, with
regarding the offense committed by violating the provisions of article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR, allows you to propose a penalty of €5,000 (five thousand euros).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

SAW

12/13

The text of the resolution establishes which have been the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what are the measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows its organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the GDPR and the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE BANQUETES SANTA ANA, SL., with NIF B30324107, for a
infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, a
fine of 5,000.00 euros (FIVE THOUSAND EUROS).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BANQUETES SANTA ANA, SL.

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of 29
July, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its
income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document, in the restricted account IBAN number: ES00-0000-
0000-0000-0000-0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code: CAIXESBBXXX), opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A..
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

