Io
 

 

         

        

Athens, 27-03-2020
 

 

       

 

 

 

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/2297/27-03-2020
 

 

 

 

 

 

A P O F A S H 06/2020
  

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, in a regular meeting at its headquarters on Tuesday
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25.02.2020 and time 10:00, in order to examine the case referred to in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

history of the present. The President of the Authority, Konstantinos, was present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Menoudakos and the regular members of the Pyridon Authority Vlachopoulos, Konstantinos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lambrinoudakis, Eleni Martsoukou and Grigorios Tsolias, substitute member
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Authority, as rapporteur, in place of regular member Charalampou
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Anthopoulos, who, although he was legally summoned, did not appear, due to obstruction. present,
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

without the right to vote, was Chariklia Latsiu, legal auditor - lawyer, as
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant rapporteur and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of administrative affairs, as secretary.
  

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With the date of 23.07.2019 (and with prot. no. APDPCH G/EI /5141/23.07.2019)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint, as it was completed with the one from 09.10.2019 (and with No. prot.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EI /6110/10.09.2019) application, A complains that the AXA insurance company does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

satisfied the right to erasure in personal data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concern. specifically, complains that the AXA insurance company did not satisfy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his request from ... regarding deletion from the company's records
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of himself and his family members, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were collected by the AXA insurance company pursuant to the application from ...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance during the pre-contractual stage of concluding a relevant insurance contract,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which, in the end, due to the relevant terms of the insurance policy, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accepted and never signed. The Authority, while examining the complaint, called
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



2
 

with the under no. prot. C/EX/5141-1/10.09.2019 document AXA insurance company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

such as submitting explanations on the complaints and clarifying, in particular, the reasons
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for which he did not satisfy the right of deletion submitted by A with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from … email message. in response to her above document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority, the AXA insurance company with the from 27.09.2019 (under prot. no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EI /6546/30.09.2019) her application clarified that the complainant submitted the...
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

health insurance application for himself, his wife and their two minor children and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on … he and his wife submitted both individually and on behalf of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his minor children in specific questions from the company Advance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Medical Health Care Management Services S.A. (I was editing), which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has contracted with the AXA insurance company for the assessment of the insurance policy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

risk of the health programs through an interview that takes place
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by telephone and recorded with the consent of the candidate concerned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insured. according to the AXA insurance company, during
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone interview, personal data is collected, especially of special categories
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(health data), the data subject is informed about their processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data and his consent is expressly requested. specifically, the interested party
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

candidate insured before the start of the interview is informed, between
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

others, for the purpose of collecting personal data, their recipients
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, their retention period (i.e. for 5 years, and in case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of concluding a contract for the entire period of its validity), as well as for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his rights, including the right to erasure. His answer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prospective insured, the call is also recorded in case of refusal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is terminated, without collecting additional personal data. In that way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to AXA insurance company, the obligation to obtain consent is satisfied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data subject, as the recording is a document with it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

evidentiary power conferred on him by law (article 444 par. 1 c of the Civil Code). According to
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AXA insurance company, both the complainant and his wife agreed with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the above way in the processing of their personal data and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were informed – in the case of the insurance application that does not develop into
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance contract – to maintain them for 5 years. Subsequently, due to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exceptions imposed on the above-mentioned insurance coverage
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

program, A refused the insurance and requested it by e-mail
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the deletion of his and his family's personal data, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
2



3
 

had been collected in accordance with the above, during the pre-contractual stage. On ...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AXA insurance company responded to his request via e-mail,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by informing him again about the policy of keeping personal data, them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing purposes, including avoidance and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

combating insurance fraud, as well as maintaining data for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a 5-year period in case of not concluding an insurance contract. Finally, on ... the AHA
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance company sent, via e-mail, the following
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

answer to A: "In connection with our telephone communication I repeat to you
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and in writing that according to the policy of our company, the personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of candidates for our customer insurance are kept for five (5) years from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

date of submission of their application for insurance, for reasons of prevention
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance fraud. You have already received and consented to this information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

orally in the online processing of your personal data. In each case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and in order to satisfy your request, we inform you that we will proceed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

anonymization of your application, i.e. the deletion of any personal data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is written on it". according to the claims of AXA insurance company,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the preservation of the complainant's data was necessary, according to article 17
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 item a' of the GDPR, to satisfy the purpose of "avoidance and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

combating insurance fraud". The insurance is invoked, in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company the "Code of Ethics for the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 character from the insurance companies" submitted by the Union
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Insurance Companies of Greece and is pending at the Authority for approval. Furthermore, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AXA insurance company citing article 34 par. 3 of law 4624/2019
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

argues that five years can be understood as a contractual retention period,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

since by providing the complainant's consent to the recording
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interview, in the context of the insurance product application, was concluded between
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

party agreement regarding the terms of personal data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the provisions of article 192 of the Civil Code. Furthermore, the AXA insurance company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invokes recital 47 of GDPR 2016/679, in which "(...) the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data, to the extent that it is strictly necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for fraud prevention purposes, it also constitutes his legitimate interest
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concerned data controller (…)". Following this, AXA concludes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance company that the complainant's right was duly satisfied,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given that following the anonymization of personal data, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
3



4
 

were included in his application, it becomes impossible to identify him.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 in addition to the above answer, the AXA insurance company with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

03.10.2019 (under no. prot. ADDPX G/EI /6671/04.10.2019) her application informed the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Principle: "(...) Using the customer's identification data (name,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VAT number and insurance application number) found in the information systems (back
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

offices, CRM) of the company, all records related to the customer's request and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

through the technical tools of each system we proceeded to anonymize them.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

All identification details of the customer and his/her dependents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

containing alphabetic letters were replaced with "XXX..." and any of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

containing numbers were replaced with "999...". Locating the customer at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information systems of our company with any identification element
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

now impossible. The anonymization process took time on …. Furthermore, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainant was informed again today ... about the satisfaction of his request (...)".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subsequently, the Authority called under no. prot. ADDPHX C/EX/5141-2/18.10.2019
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document the AXA insurance company to provide additional explanations on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific issues. in response, the AXA insurance company with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

04.11.2019,
 

05.11.2019
 

and
 

05.11.2019
 

(and
 

with
 

No.
 

first APDPH
 

 

G/EI /7564/05.11.2019, G/EI /7573/05.11.2019 and G/EI / 7610/06.11.2019) documents
 

 

 

 

 

 

informed, among other things, the Authority that the sole legal basis of the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is the consent of the data subject, pursuant to article 9 par. 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

item a' of GDPR 2016/679 and the invocation of recital 47 of GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2016/679 aimed at further explaining the purpose of processing, which consisted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to avoid and combat insurance fraud and legality
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of this, as well as that the company never used any other legal basis than that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent. Furthermore, according to the AXA insurance company: "(...) 2. H
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

avoiding and combating insurance fraud consists in avoiding submission
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a future insurance application from the same data subject with false (in other words,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

differentiated) in relation to the original health data insurance application. The energy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this constitutes deceiving the insurance company in order to obtain insurance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

risk, which would be excluded from insurance if the subject had submitted truthfully
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data or the subject would pay a premium for said coverage. The above
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

practice is detrimental not only to the insurance company but also to the whole
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the (bona fide) insured as long as the amount of the annual premiums each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance program is formed each time based on the amount of damages that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
4



5
 

covered by the insurance company in the previous year. In the case of compliance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data collected during the pre-contractual stage, achieved comfortably o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above purpose, as long as the subject returns to a future role and submits
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

new insurance application with different insurance details compared to the existing ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submitted in the first instance, the insurance company may recognize it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance fraud and deny insurance'. (…) 6. It is attached to the subject of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given the possibility of withdrawing his consent even in the pre-contract
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance application stage. Specific information can be found on the application form
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance (…) as well as in the verbal information he receives during the unwritten
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone medical interview (…) 7. Our company informed the subject of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data for the reasons that anonymization of his data was chosen instead of her
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deletion, through telephone communication with the Protection Officer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Data of our Company. This fact is also proven by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pending the termination of the data subject, where this is mentioned
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication as well as informing the subject about its process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

anonymization (…)".
   

 

Subsequently, the Authority with sub. No. prot. C/EX/5141-4/12.12.2019 and C/EX/5141-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3/12.12.2019 documents called the AXA insurance company and the complainant A,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

respectively, as presented at a meeting of the Authority's Plenary on Tuesday
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.01.2020 at 10:00 a.m. in order to discuss the aforementioned complaint. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A, following the aforementioned call, informed the Authority with the from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29.12.2019 (and with no. prot. APDPH G/EI /53/07.01.2020) his application that he will not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attend the above meeting. the meeting of the Authority on 21.01.2020
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aikaterini – Nikoleta Pavli (AM DD A ...) appeared, as attorney-at-law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the AXA insurance company, which presented the company's views and gave
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarifications following relevant questions from the members, while Michael was also present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dermitzakis, lawyer, Data Protection Officer of AXA Insurance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company.
 

During the meeting, AXA insurance company received, upon request,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deadline until 10.02.2020 for the submission of a memorandum document. Then
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

therefore, the AXA insurance company submitted by deadline to the Authority the from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.02.2020 (and with prot. no. ADDPCH G/EI /1087/10.02.2020) document reminder,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with which he informed, among other things, the Authority about the conservation policy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data of the company in general, and provided information on the technique
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
5



6
 

of the anonymization adopted in satisfaction of A.'s deletion request.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who was present without the right to attend
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vote and withdrew after the discussion of the case and before the conference
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and making a decision, after a thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

1. Because, from the provisions of articles 51 and 55 of the General Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Data Protection (Regulation 2016/679) and Article 9 of Law 4624/2019
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Government Gazette A' 137) it appears that the Authority has the authority to supervise the implementation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of the GDPR, this law and other regulations concerning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection of the individual from the processing of personal data. In particular, from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provisions of articles 57 par.1 item f of the GDPR and 13 par. 1 item g' of the law
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4624/2019 it follows that the Authority has the authority to deal with A's complaint
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

against the AXA insurance company for non-satisfaction of the right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

erasure of personal data concerning him and to exercise,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

respectively, the powers granted to it by the provisions of articles 58 thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR and 15 of Law 4624/2019.
  

 

 

 

 

 

2. Because Article 5 of the GDPR defines the processing principles that govern the
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data. specifically, defined in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph 1 that the personal data, among others: "a) are submitted
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in lawful and fair processing in a transparent manner in relation to the subject of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data
 

("legality, objectivity, transparency"), b) are collected
 

 

 

 

 

for
 

defined, express and legal purposes and are not subjected to further
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processed in a manner incompatible with these purposes (…), c) are appropriate,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are submitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in processing ("data minimization"), (…) e) are kept in a form that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allows the identification of data subjects only for the period that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

required for the purposes of processing personal data; ta
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data may be stored for longer periods,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

since the personal data will be processed only for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes of ranking in the public interest, for purposes of scientific or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

historical research or for statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89 paragraph 1 and
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
6



7
 

as long as the appropriate technical and organizational measures required herein are applied
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulation to ensure the rights and freedoms of the subject of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data ("restriction of the storage period") (...)'.
   

 

 

 

 

 

3. Because, in accordance with the provisions of article 5 paragraph 2 of the GDPR
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the controller bears responsibility and must be able to prove it
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its compliance with the processing principles established in paragraph 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 5. As the Authority1 has judged, a new model was adopted with the GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compliance, a central dimension of which is the principle of accountability in the framework
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of which the controller is obliged to design, implement and in general
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

takes the necessary measures and policies, in order to process the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to be in accordance with the relevant legislative provisions. In addition, the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing is burdened with the further duty to prove by itself and per
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at all times its compliance with the principles of article 5 par. 1 GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. Because, in accordance with the provisions of article 4 par. 1 of the GDPR
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are understood as personal data "any information concerning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identified or identifiable natural person ("data subject"); the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

an identifiable natural person is one whose identity can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be ascertained, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ID, such as name, ID number, location data, online
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identity identifier or to one or more factors specific to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identity of the natural person in question"2. Also, in article 4 par. 5 of the GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2016/679 is defined as pseudonymization: "the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
   

 
   
 

                                                 
1 See Authority decision 26/2019, paragraph 8, available on its website.
 
  
2 In addition, recital 26 of GDPR 2016/679 underlines that: "The advantages of the protection
 
 
should apply to any information that concerns an identified or identifiable
 
individual. Personal character data that has undergone pseudonymization, which will
 
could be attributed to a natural person by stating additional information, it should
 
are considered information relating to an identifiable natural person. To judge whether a natural
 
person is identifiable, consideration should be given to all means which are reasonably likely
 
that they will be formalized, such as its appointment, either by the data controller or
 
by a third party for the direct or indirect verification of the identity of the natural person. To find out
 
whether any means are reasonably likely to be formalized to verify identity
 
of the natural person, all objective factors, such as costs, should be taken into account
 
and the ron required for identification, taking into account the technology it is
 
available during processing and technological developments. The virtues of protection
 
data protection should therefore not apply to anonymous information, i.e. information that does not
 
are directed to an identified or identifiable natural person or personal data
 
which have been made anonymous in such a way that the identity of the data subject cannot
 
or can no longer be ascertained. This regulation therefore does not concern the processing of such
 
 
anonymous information, not for statistical or research purposes among others".
 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
7
 



8
 

 character in such a way that the data can no longer be attributed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific subject
 

 

of hourly data
 

 

 

the saying of complements
 

 

 

information, as long as said supplementary information is kept permanently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and are subject to technical and organizational measures to ensure that they do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

can be attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person"3.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. Because, in accordance with article 8 par. 1 of the Charter of the Fundamental
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rights of the European Union, the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

9A
 

of the regiment and the
 

 

 

 

recital 4 of the GDPR, the right to data protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature is not absolute, but must be evaluated in relation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his functioning in society and to be weighed against other fundamental rights,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to the principle of proportionality. The GDPR respects all fundamentals
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights and observes the freedoms and principles recognized in the Charter, in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

respect for private and family life, residence and communications,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the protection of personal data, freedom of thought,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conscience and religion, the freedom of expression and information, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

business freedom, the right to a real and impartial remedy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

court and cultural, religious and linguistic diversity.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. Because, with regard to the right to erasure, Article 17 of the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provides, among other things: "1. The data subject has the right to request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by the controller the deletion of personal data that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sometimes involve unjustified delay and the data controller is liable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to delete personal data without undue delay, if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is one of the following reasons: a) the personal data is not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they were collected or submitted
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

otherwise processed, b) the data subject revokes the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent on which the processing is based in accordance with Article 6 paragraph
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 point a) or Article 9 paragraph 2 point a) and there is no other legal basis
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for processing (…)". Next, the provision of paragraph 3 of the same article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provides for derogations from the right to erasure, defining, among other things: "3. The
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

                                                 
3 recital 28 provides that: "The provision of pseudonymisation in personnel data
 
 
 actor can reduce risks for data subjects and facilitate them
 
controllers and processors to comply with the relevant procedures regarding
 
data protection. The explicit introduction of "pseudonymization" in this regulation does not
 
is intended to preclude any other data protection measure'.
  
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
8
 



9
 

paragraphs 1 and 2 do not apply to the extent that the processing is necessary:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(…) b) to comply with a legal obligation that imposes the processing based on it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Union law or the law of the Member State to which the person responsible belongs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing or for the fulfillment of a duty performed in the public interest
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or in the exercise of public authority delegated to the controller,
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c) for reasons of public interest in the field of public health in accordance with the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 paragraph 2 points h) and i), as well as article 9 paragraph 3 d) for purposes
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

numbering in the public interest, for purposes of scientific or historical research
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or for statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89 paragraph 1, if the right
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in paragraph 1 is likely to make impossible or hinder
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to a large extent the achievement of purposes of said processing, or e) for the establishment,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising or supporting legal claims".
  

 

 

 

 

Accordingly, Article 34 of Law 4624/2019 introduces, pursuant to Article 23 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR limits the right to erasure and provides: "1. If the delete in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case of non-automated processing due to its particular nature
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

storage is not possible or is only possible with a disproportionately large effort and
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the interest of the data subject for the erasure is not considered important,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the subject's right and the controller's obligation do not exist
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to delete personal data in accordance with article 17 paragraph
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 of the GDPR, except for the exceptions mentioned in article 17 paragraph 3 thereof
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR. In this case, the deletion is replaced by its limitation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing in accordance with Article 18 of the GDPR. The above paragraphs do not apply,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if the personal data has been processed illegally (...) 3.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition to Article 17 paragraph 3 letter b) of the GDPR, paragraph 1 applies
 

   

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to the case of article 17 paragraph 1 letter a) of the GDPR, if the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deletion will occur when in conflict with legal or contractual retention periods”.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. Because, in the case under consideration, from the data in the case file,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it follows that the AXA insurance company, as data controller, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

those defined in the provision of article 4 par. 7 of the GDPR, should in principle have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

satisfy A's request from ... regarding deletion from her records
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company's personal data and members of his family, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were collected in the name of the complainant himself by AXA insurance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company with his consent, in accordance with the provisions of article 9
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 item a' of the GDPR, pursuant to the insurance application from ...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
9



10
 

pre-contractual stage of concluding a relevant insurance contract, which, in the end,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to the relevant terms of the insurance policy the complainant did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accepted and never signed. In this case, the AXA insurance company, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data controller, due, in accordance with the provisions of article 17
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 1 item b' of the GDPR, to satisfy the aforementioned deletion request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ah, since the latter with his request from ... essentially revoked the positive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

declaration of intent that he had provided to the insurance company in question for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

collection of his personal data for the purpose of the insurance application and not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is another legal basis for the specific processing. Besides, it doesn't happen
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case of legal deviation from the right of erasure to maintain the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data, in accordance with the provisions of article 17 par. 3
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the GDPR, not even in this case the exercise of the right to erasure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

replaced by the possible anonymization of the collected personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character. Furthermore, AXA's claim is rejected as unfounded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance company for a contractual period of retention of the data in question,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pursuant to articles 34 par. 3 of law 4624/2019 and 192 of the Civil Code, since the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aforementioned provision of Law 4624/2019 regarding deletion in case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

non-automated processing, does not apply in this case to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

automated processing carried out by AXA in its information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

systems.
  

8. Because following these, the Authority taking into account, among others, in particular, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinions 15/2011 "regarding the definition of consent" and 5/2014 "regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

anonymization principles' and the guidelines 'concerning consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on regulation 2016/679" of the working group of article 294, as well as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relevant directives of the European Network Security Agency and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Information (ENISA)5, considers that in this particular case it was on its part
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AXA insurance company violation of A's right to erasure according to article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17 of the GDPR. Furthermore, regardless of the issue of the relationship between the deletion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the anonymization of personal data without the possibility
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                 
4 WP187 from 13.07.2011, WP216 from 10.04.2014 and WP259 rev.1 as finally revised and
 
 
were issued on 10.04.2018, respectively, available on the website http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-
  
protection/index_en.htm
5 In particular, Pseudonymisation techniques and best practices from 03.12.2019 available on the website
 
 
  
https://www.enisa.europa.eu.

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
10
 



11
 

identification of the specific natural person6, however, AXA insurance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company, as controller, does not prove but neither does it invoke
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

existence of a reason, based on the GDPR, for the non-satisfaction of the right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the deletion of personal data and its substitution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deletion by anonymizing them. On the one hand, the relative does not constitute such a reason
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provision and invocation of the personal data management policy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character to the extent that it is not supported by the GDPR, on the other hand, the choice of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technical specifications of the information system of AXA insurance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company to the extent that it is not supported by the GDPR. The Authority, during its exercise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corrective power, in such a way as to impose, if the case arises, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effective, proportionate and deterrent measure according to article 83 of the GDPR, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and with the Guidelines "for the implementation and determination of administrative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of fines for the purposes of regulation 2016/679" of the working group of the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

297, when evaluating the data in order to select the appropriate one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corrective measure, considering, in particular, that the specific violation referred to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of a special category of personal data (health data)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

constitutes an individual case (article 83 par. 2 letter a) and evaluates as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mitigating circumstance (article 83 par. 2 letter k) the fact that AXA insurance
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company followed a practice harmonized with the provisions of the Code
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code of Conduct of the Association of Insurance Companies for the preservation of personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of the prospective insured for five years, in case of non-contract
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance contract, which, however, due to the fact that it has not been approved by the Authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cannot be used as evidence of its compliance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR (article 24 par. 3). The legality of the above provision of the draft Code
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

will be decided by the Authority when examining the Code as a whole.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The beginning
 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

a) considers that the AXA insurance company, as a data controller, has violated it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                 
6 Compare relevant decision of the Austrian Supervisory Authority from 05.12.2018 (Geschäftszahl DSB-
 
 
D123.270/0009-DSB/2018), available on the website https://www.ris.bka.gv.at.
 
7 WP 253 from 03.10.2017, available at https://edpb.europa.eu
 
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11
 



12
 

exercise of A's right of deletion in accordance with the provisions of articles 5 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17 of the GDPR and addresses, pursuant to article 58 par. 2 item. II of the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reprimand the insurance company in question for violating these provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and
  

b) reserves the right to judge the legality of the retention of personal data
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of prospective insureds for five years from their collection on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pre-contractual stage for the purpose of avoiding and combating insurance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fraud in the context of the examination of the draft Union Code of Conduct
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Insurance Companies that has been submitted for approval to the Authority, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

defined in the provision of article 40 par. 5 of the GDPR.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president
 

 

 

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

 

 Constantinos Menoudakos
 

 

                       

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 
 
12

