Guidelines 01/2020 on processing personal data in the

context of connected vehicles and mobility related

applications

Version 2.0

Adopted on 9 March 2021

Adopted

1

Version history

Version 2.0

Version 1.0

9 March 2021

28 January 2020

Adoption  of  the  Guidelines
after public consultation
Adoption of the Guidelines for
public consultation

Adopted

2

Table of contents
1

1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5

INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................... 4
Related works.......................................................................................................................... 5
Applicable law ......................................................................................................................... 6
Scope ....................................................................................................................................... 8
Definitions ............................................................................................................................. 11
Privacy and data protection risks .......................................................................................... 13
GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS.................................................................................................... 15
Categories of data ................................................................................................................. 15
2.1
Purposes................................................................................................................................ 17
2.2
Relevance and data minimisation ......................................................................................... 17
2.3
Data protection by design and by default............................................................................. 18
2.4
Information............................................................................................................................ 21
2.5
Rights of the data subject...................................................................................................... 23
2.6
Security.................................................................................................................................. 23
2.7
Transmitting personal data to third parties.......................................................................... 24
2.8
2.9
Transfer of personal data outside the EU/EEA...................................................................... 25
2.10 Use of in-vehicle Wi-Fi technologies ..................................................................................... 26
CASE STUDIES ................................................................................................................................ 26
Provision of a service by a third party................................................................................... 26
eCall....................................................................................................................................... 30
Accidentology studies............................................................................................................ 33
Tackle auto theft ................................................................................................................... 35

3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4

2

3

Adopted

3

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70 (1) (e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter
“GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES

1 INTRODUCTION

1. Symbol of the 20th century economy, the automobile is one of the mass consumer products
that has impacted society as a whole. Commonly associated with the notion of freedom,
cars  are  often  considered  as  more  than  just  a  means of  transportation.  Indeed,  they
represent a private area in which people can enjoy a form of autonomy of decision, without
encountering  any  external  interferences.  Today,  as  connected  vehicles  move  into  the
mainstream, such a vision no longer corresponds to the reality. In-vehicle connectivity is
rapidly expanding  from  luxury  models  and  premium  brands  to  high-volume  midmarket
models, and vehicles are becoming massive data hubs. Not only vehicles, but drivers and
passengers are also becoming more and more connected. As a matter of fact, many models
launched over the past few years on the market integrate sensors and connected on-board
equipment, which may collect and record, among other things, the engine performance, the
driving habits, the locations visited, and potentially even the driver’s eye movements, his or
her pulse, or biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person.2

2. Such data processing is taking place in a complex ecosystem, which is not limited to the
traditional players of the automotive industry, but is also shaped by the emergence of new
players belonging to the digital economy. These new players may offer infotainment services
such as online music, road condition and traffic information, or provide driving assistance
systems and services, such as autopilot software, vehicle condition updates, usage-based
insurance  or  dynamic  mapping.  Moreover,  since  vehicles  are  connected  via  electronic
communication networks, road infrastructure managers and telecommunications operators
involved in this process also play an important role with respect to the potential processing
operations applied to the drivers’ and passengers’ personal data.

3.

In addition, connected vehicles are generating increasing amounts of data, most of which
can be considered personal data since they will relate to drivers or passengers. Even if the

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.
2 Infographic “Data and the connected car” by the Future of Privacy Forum; https://fpf.org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/06/2017_0627-FPF-Connected-Car-Infographic-Version-1.0.pdf

Adopted

4

data collected by a connected car are not directly linked to a name, but to technical aspects
and features of the vehicle, it will concern the driver or the passengers of the car. As an
illustration, data relating to the driving style or the distance covered, data relating to the
wear and tear on vehicle parts, location data or data collected by cameras may concern
driver behaviour as well as information about other people who could be inside or data
subjects that pass by. Such technical data are produced by a natural person, and permit
his/her direct or indirect identification, by the data controller or by another person. The
vehicle can be considered as a terminal that can be used by different users. Therefore, as
for a personal computer, this potential plurality of users does not affect the personal nature
of the data.

4.

In 2016, the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA) ran a campaign across Europe
called “My Car My Data” to get a sentiment on what Europeans think about connected cars.3
While it showed the high interest of drivers for connectivity, it also highlighted the vigilance
that must be exercised with regard to the use of the data produced by vehicles as well as
the importance of complying with personal data protection legislation. Thus, the challenge
is, for each stakeholder, to incorporate the “protection of personal data” dimension from
the product design phase, and to ensure that car users enjoy transparency and control in
relation  to  their  data in  accordance  with  recital  78  GDPR.  Such  an  approach  helps  to
strengthen user confidence, and thus the long-term development of those technologies.

1.1 Related works

5. Connected vehicles have become a substantial subject for regulators over the last decade,
with a major increase in the last couple of years. Various works have thus been published at
the  national  and  international  levels  concerning  the  security  and  privacy  of  connected
vehicles.  Those  regulations  and  initiatives  aim  at  complementing  the  existing  data
protection  and  privacy  frameworks  with  sector  specific  rules  or  providing  guidance  to
professionals.

1.1.1 European-level and international initiatives

6. Since 31 March 2018, a 112-based eCall in-vehicle system is mandatory on all new types of
M1  and  N1  vehicles  (passenger  cars  and  light  duty  vehicles).4,5 In  2006,  the  Article  29
Working Party had already adopted a working document on data protection and privacy
implications in eCall initiative.6 In addition, as previously discussed, the Article 29 Working
Party also adopted an opinion in October 2017 regarding the processing of personal data in
the context of Cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems (C-ITS).

7.

In January 2017, the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA)
published a study focused on cyber security and resilience of smart cars listing the sensitive
assets as well as the corresponding threats, risks, mitigation factors and possible security

3 Campaign “My Car My Data”; http://www.mycarmydata.eu/.
4 The interoperable EU-wide eCall; https://ec.europa.eu/transport/themes/its/road/action_plan/ecall_en.
5 Decision No 585/2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the deployment
of the interoperable EU-wide eCall service Text with EEA relevance; https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014D0585.
6 Working document on data protection and privacy implications in eCall initiative;
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2006/wp125_en.pdf.

Adopted

5

measures  to  implement.7 In  September  2017,  the  International  Conference  of  Data
Protection  and  Privacy  Commissioners  (ICDPPC)  adopted  a  resolution  on  connected
vehicles.8 Finally,  in  April  2018,  the  International  Working  Group  on  Data  Protection  in
Telecommunications (IWGDPT), also adopted a working paper on connected vehicles.9

1.1.2 National initiatives of European Data Protection Board (EDPB) members

8.

In  January  2016,  the  Conference  of  the  German  Federal  and  State  Data  Protection
Authorities  and  the  German  Association  of  the  Automotive  Industry  (VDA)  published  a
common declaration on the principles of data protection in connected and not-connected
vehicles.10 In August 2017, the UK Centre for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (CCAV)
released a guide stating principles of cyber security for connected and automated vehicles
in order to raise awareness on the matter within the automotive sector.11 In October 2017,
the French data protection authority, the Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des
Libertés  (CNIL),  released  a  compliance  package  for  connected  cars  in  order  to  provide
assistance to stakeholders on how to integrate data protection by design and by default,
enabling data subjects to have effective control over their data.12

1.2 Applicable law

9. The relevant EU legal framework is the GDPR. It applies in any case where data processing

in the context of connected vehicles involves processing personal data of individuals.

10. Additionally to the GDPR, directive 2002/58/EC as revised by 2009/136/EC (hereinafter –
“ePrivacy directive”), sets a specific standard for all actors that wish to store or access
information stored in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user in the European
Economic Area (EEA).

11. Indeed, if most of the ePrivacy directive provisions (art. 6, art. 9, etc.) only apply to providers
of  publicly  available  electronic  communication  services  and  providers  of  public
communication networks, art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive is a general provision. It does not only
apply to electronic communication services but also to every entity, private or public, that
places on or reads information from a terminal equipment without regard to the nature of
the data being stored or accessed.

7 Cyber security and resilience of smart cars; https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cyber-security-and-
resilience-of-smart-cars.
8 Resolution on data protection in automated and connected vehicles;
https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/resolution-on-data-protection-in-automated-and-
connected-vehicles_en_1.pdf.
9 Working paper on connected vehicles; https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/veroeffentlichungen/working-paper/.
10 Data protection aspects of using connected and non-connected vehicles;
https://www.lda.bayern.de/media/dsk_joint_statement_vda.pdf.
11 Principles of cyber security for connected and automated vehicles;
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/principles-of-cyber-security-for-connected-and-automated-
vehicles.
12 Compliance package for a responsible use of data in connected cars; https://www.cnil.fr/en/connected-
vehicles-compliance-package-responsible-use-data.

Adopted

6

12. Regarding  the  notion  of  “terminal  equipment”,  the  definition  is  given  by  directive
2008/63/CE13.  Art. 1  (a) defines the  terminal  equipment  as  an “equipment  directly  or
indirectly  connected  to  the  interface  of  a  public  telecommunications  network  to  send,
process  or  receive  information;  in  either  case  (direct or  indirect),  the  connection  may  be
made by wire, optical fibre or electromagnetically; a connection is indirect if equipment is
placed between the terminal and the interface of the network; (b) satellite earth station
equipment”.

13. As a result, provided that the aforementioned criteria are met, the connected vehicle and
device connected to it should be considered as a “terminal equipment” (just like a computer,
a  smartphone  or  a  smart  TV)  and  provisions  of  art. 5(3)  ePrivacy  directive apply  where
relevant.

14. As  outlined  by  the  EDPB  in  its  opinion 5/2019  on  the  interplay  between  the  ePrivacy
directive and the GDPR,14 art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive provides that, as a rule, and subject to
the exceptions to that rule mentioned in paragraph 17 below, prior consent is required for
the storing of information, or the gaining of access to information already stored, in the
terminal equipment of a subscriber or user. To the extent that the information stored in the
end-user’s  device  constitutes  personal  data,  art. 5(3) ePrivacy  directive shall  take
precedence over art. 6 GDPR with regards to the activity of storing or gaining access to this
information.15 Any processing operations of personal data following the aforementioned
processing  operations, 
including  processing  personal  data  obtained  by  accessing
information in the terminal equipment, must have a legal basis under art. 6 GDPR in order
to be lawful.16

15. Since the controller, when seeking consent for the storing or gaining of access to information
pursuant to art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive, will have to inform the data subject about all the
purposes  of  the  processing – including  any  processing  following  the  aforementioned
operations (meaning the  “subsequent  processing”) – consent  under  art.  6  GDPR  will
generally  be  the  most  adequate  legal  basis  to  cover  the processing of  personal  data
following such  operations (as  far  as  the  purpose  of  the  following  processing 
is
comprehended by the data subject´s consent, see paragraphs 53-54 below). Hence, consent
will likely constitute the legal basis both for the storing and gaining of access to information
already stored and the subsequent processing of personal data17. Indeed, when assessing
compliance with art. 6 GDPR, one should take into account that the processing as a whole
involves  specific  activities  for  which  the EU  legislature  has  sought  to  provide  additional
protection.18 Moreover, controllers must take into account the impact on data subjects’

13 Commission Directive 2008/63/EC of 20 June 2008 on competition in the markets in telecommunications
terminal equipment (Codified version) (Text with EEA relevance); https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX%3A32008L0063.
14 European Data Protection Board, Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the
GDPR, in particular regarding the competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities, adopted on 12
March 2019 (hereinafter - “Opinion 5/2019”), paragraph 40.
15 Ibid, paragraph 40.
16 Ibid, paragraph 41.
17 Consent required by art. 5(3) of the “ePrivacy” directive and consent needed as a legal basis for the
processing of data (art. 6 GDPR) for the same specific purpose can be collected at the same time (for example,
by checking a box clearly indicating what the data subject is consenting to).
18 Opinion 5/2019, paragraph 41.

Adopted

7

rights  when  identifying  the  appropriate  lawful  basis  in  order  to  respect the  principle  of
fairness.19 The bottom line is that art. 6 GDPR cannot be relied upon by controllers in order
to lower the additional protection provided by art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive.

16. The EDPB recalls that the notion of consent in the ePrivacy directive remains the notion of
consent in the GDPR and must meet all the requirements of the consent as provided by
art. 4(11) and 7 GDPR.

17. However, while consent is the principle, art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive allows the storing of
information or the gaining of access to information that is already stored in the terminal
equipment to be exempted from the requirement of informed consent, if it satisfies one of
the following criteria:





Exemption 1: for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication
over an electronic communications network;
Exemption 2: when it is strictly necessary in order for the provider of an information
society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user to provide the service.

18. In such cases, the processing of personal data including personal data obtained by accessing
information in the terminal equipment is based on one of the legal bases as provided by
art. 6  GDPR.  For  example, consent  is  not  needed  when data  processing is necessary  to
provide GPS navigation services requested by the data subject when such services can be
qualified as information society services.

1.3 Scope

19. The EDPB would like to point out that these guidelines are intended to facilitate compliance
of the processing of personal data carried out by a wide range of stakeholders working in
this environment. However, they are not intended to cover all use cases possible in this
context or to provide guidance for every possible specific situation.

20. The scope of this document focuses in particular on the personal data processing in relation
to the non-professional use of connected vehicles by data subjects: e.g., drivers, passengers,
vehicle owners, other road users, etc. More specifically, it deals with the personal data:
(i) processed inside the vehicle, (ii) exchanged between the vehicle and personal devices
connected  to  it  (e.g.,  the  user’s  smartphone)  or  (iii)  collected locally in  the  vehicle  and
exported  to  external  entities  (e.g.,  vehicle  manufacturers,  infrastructure  managers,
insurance companies, car repairers) for further processing.

21. The connected vehicle definition has to be understood as a broad concept in this document.
It can be defined as a vehicle equipped with many electronic control units (ECU) that are
linked together via an in-vehicle network as well as connectivity facilities allowing it to share
information with other devices both inside and outside the vehicle. As such, data can be
exchanged between the vehicle and personal devices connected to it, for instance allowing
the mirroring of mobile applications to the car’s in-dash information and entertainment unit.
Also,  the  development  of  standalone  mobile  applications,  meaning  independent  of  the
vehicle (for example, relying on the sole use of the smart phone) to assist drivers is included

19 European Data Protection Board, Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b)
GDPR in the context of the provision of online services to data subjects, Version 2.0, 8 October 2019,
paragraph 1.

Adopted

8

in the scope of this document since they contribute to the vehicle’s connectivity capacities
even though they may not effectively rely on the transmission of data with the vehicle per
se. Applications for connected vehicles are multiple and diverse and can include20:

22. Mobility management: functions that allow drivers to reach a destination quickly, and in a
cost-efficient manner, by providing timely information about GPS navigation, potentially
dangerous environmental conditions (e.g., icy roads), traffic congestion or road construction
work, parking lot or garage assistance, optimised fuel consumption or road pricing.

23. Vehicle management: functions that are supposed to aid drivers in reducing operating costs
and improving ease of use, such as notification of vehicle condition and service reminders,
transfer of usage data (e.g., for vehicle repair services), customised “Pay As/How You Drive”
insurances,  remote  operations  (e.g.,  heating  system)  or  profile  configurations  (e.g.,  seat
position).

24. Road safety: functions that warn the driver of external hazards and internal responses, such
as  collision  protection,  hazard  warnings,  lane  departure  warnings,  driver  drowsiness
detection, emergency call (eCall) or crash investigation “black-boxes” (event data recorder).
25. Entertainment: functions providing information to and involving the entertainment of the
driver  and  passengers,  such  as  smart  phone  interfaces  (hands  free  phone  calls,  voice
generated text messages), WLAN hot spots, music, video, Internet, social media, mobile
office or “smart home” services.

26. Driver  assistance:

functions  involving  partially  or  fully  automated  driving,  such  as

operational assistance or autopilot in heavy traffic, in parking, or on highways,

27. Well-being: functions monitoring the driver’s comfort, ability and fitness to drive such as

fatigue detection or medical assistance.

28. Hence, vehicles can be natively connected or not and personal data can be collected through
several means, including: (i) vehicle sensors, (ii) telematics boxes or (iii) mobile applications
(e.g. accessed from a device belonging to a driver). In order to fall within the scope of this
document,  mobile  applications  need  to  be  related  to  the  environment  of  driving.  For
example, GPS navigation applications are in-scope. Applications whose functionalities only
suggest places of interest (restaurants, historic monument, etc.) to drivers fall, however,
outside the scope of these guidelines.

29. Much of the data that is generated by a connected vehicle relate to a natural person that is
identified  or  identifiable  and  thus  constitute  personal  data.  For  instance,  data  include
directly  identifiable  data  (e.g.,  the  driver’s  complete  identity),  as  well  as  indirectly
identifiable data such as the details of journeys made, the vehicle usage data (e.g., data
relating to driving style or the distance covered), or the vehicle’s technical data (e.g., data
relating to the wear and tear on vehicle parts), which, by cross-referencing with other files
and especially the vehicle identification number (VIN), can be related to a natural person.
Personal data in connected vehicles can also include metadata, such as vehicle maintenance
status. In other words, any data that can be associated with a natural person therefore fall
into the scope of this document.

20 PwC Strategy 2014. “In the fast lane. The bright future of connected cars”:
https://www.strategyand.pwc.com/media/file/Strategyand_In-the-Fast-Lane.pdf.

Adopted

9

30. The connected vehicle ecosystem covers a wide spectrum of stakeholders. This ecosystem
more precisely includes traditional actors of the automotive industry as well as emerging
players  from  the  digital  industry. Hence,  these guidelines are directed  towards  vehicle
manufacturers,  equipment  manufacturers  and  automotive  suppliers,  car  repairers,
automobile  dealerships,  vehicle  service  providers,  fleet  managers,  motor  insurance
companies,  entertainment  providers,  telecommunication  operators,  road  infrastructure
managers  and  public  authorities  as  well  as data  subjects.  The  EDPB underlines  that  the
categories of data subjects will differ from one service to another (e.g., drivers, owners,
passengers, etc.). This is a non-exhaustive list as the ecosystem entails a wide variety of
services, including services for which a direct authentication or identification is needed and
services for which this is not needed.

31. Some  data  processing  performed  by  natural  persons  within  the  vehicle  fall within  “the
course of a purely personal or household activity” and are consequently out of the scope of
the GDPR21. In particular, this concerns the use of personal data within the vehicles by the
sole data subjects who provided such data into the vehicle’s dashboard. However, the EDPB
recalls that according to its recital 18 the GDPR “applies to controllers or processors which
provide the means for processing personal data for such personal or household activities”.

1.3.1 Out of scope of this document

32. Employers providing company cars to members of their staff might want to monitor their
employee’s actions (e.g., in order to ensure the safety of the employee, goods or vehicles,
to allocate resources, to track and bill a service or to check working time). Data processing
carried out by employers in this context raises specific considerations to the employment
context,  which  might  be  regulated  by  labour  laws  at  the  national  level  that  cannot  be
detailed in these guidelines22.

33. While  the  data  processing  in  the  context  of  commercial  vehicles  used  for  professional
purposes  (such  as  public  transport)  and  shared  transport  and  MaaS  solution  may  raise
specific considerations which fall out of the scope of these general guidelines, many of the
principles  and  recommendations  set out  here  will  also  be  applicable  to  those  types  of
processing.

34. Connected vehicles being radio-enabled systems, they are subject to passive tracking such
as Wi-Fi or Bluetooth tracking. In that sense they do not differ from other connected devices
and fall in the scope of the ePrivacy directive which is currently being revised. This therefore
excludes  also  large-scale  tracking  of  Wi-Fi  equipped  vehicles23 by  a  dense  network  of
bystanders who use common smartphone location services. These routinely report all visible
Wi-Fi networks to central servers. Since built-in Wi-Fi can be considered a secondary vehicle

21 See GDPR, Article 2(2)(c).
22 The Article 29 Working Party elaborated on this in its WP249 Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work;
https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=610169.
23 See for details: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/artikel/1269-Location-Services-can-Systematically-
Track-Vehicles-with-WiFi-Access-Points-at-Large-Scale.html.

Adopted

10

identifier24, this  risks  a  systematic  ongoing  collection  of  complete  vehicle  movement
profiles.

35. Vehicles are increasingly equipped with image recording devices (e.g., car parking camera
systems or dashcams). Since this deals with the issue of filming public places, which requires
an assessment of the relevant legislative framework which is specific to each Member State,
this data processing is out of the scope of these guidelines.

36. The  processing  of  data  enabling  Cooperative Intelligent  Transport  Systems  (C-ITS) – as
defined in the directive 2010/40/EU25 has been dealt with in a specific opinion by the Article
29 Working Party26. While the definition of the C-ITS concept in the directive does not bear
any technical specifications, the Article 29 Working Party focuses in its opinion on short-
range communications, i.e. that do not involve the intervention of a network operator. More
specifically,  it  provides  analysis  for  specific  use  cases  built  for  initial  deployment  and
committed to assess at a later stage the new issues that will be undoubtedly raised when
higher level of automation will be implemented. Since the data protection implications in
the context of C-ITS are very specific (unprecedented amounts of location data, continuous
broadcasting  of  personal  data,  exchange  of  data  between  vehicles  and  other  road
infrastructural facilities, etc.) and that it is still being discussed at the European level, the
processing of personal data in that context is not covered by these guidelines.

37. Finally, this document does not aim to address all possible issues and questions raised by

connected vehicles and can therefore not be considered as exhaustive.

1.4 Definitions

38. The processing of personal data encompasses any operation that involves personal data
such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration,
retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making
available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction, etc.27

39. The data subject is the natural person to whom the data covered by the processing relate.
In the context of connected vehicles, it can, in particular, be the driver (main or occasional),
the passenger, or the owner of the vehicle.28

40. The data controller is the person who determines the purposes and means of processing
that take place in connected vehicles.29 Data controllers can include service providers that
process vehicle data to send the driver traffic-information, eco-driving messages or alerts

24 Markus Ullmann, Tobias Franz, and Gerd Nolden, Vehicle Identiﬁcation Based on Secondary Vehicle Identiﬁer
-- Analysis, and Measurements, in Proceedings, VEHICULAR 2017, The Sixth International Conference on
Advances in Vehicular Systems, Technologies and Applications, Nice, France, July 23 to 27, 2017, p. 32-37.
25 Directive 2010/40/EU of 7 July 2020 on the framework for the deployment of Intelligent Transport Systems in
the field of road transport and for interfaces with other modes of transport; https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32010L0040.
26 Article 29 Working Party - Opinion 03/2017 on Processing personal data in the context of Cooperative
Intelligent Transport Systems (C-ITS); http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-
detail.cfm?item_id=610171.
27 See GDPR, Article 4 (2).
28 See GDPR, Article 4 (1).
29 See GDPR, Article 4 (7) and the European Data Protection Board, Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of
controller and processor in the GDPR (hereinafter - “Guidelines 07/2020”).

Adopted

11

regarding the functioning of the vehicle, insurance companies offering “Pay As You Drive”
contracts,  or  vehicle  manufacturers  gathering  data  on  the  wear  and  tear  affecting  the
vehicle’s parts to improve its quality. Pursuant to art. 26 GDPR, two or more controllers can
jointly determine the purposes and means of the processing and thus be considered as joint
controllers. In this case, they have to clearly define their respective obligations, especially
as regards the exercising of the rights of data subjects and the provision of information as
referred to in art. 13 and 14 GDPR.

41. The data processor is any person who processes personal data for and on behalf of the data
controller.30 The data processor collects and processes data on instruction from the data
controller, without using those data for its own purposes. As an example, in a number of
cases, equipment manufacturers and automotive suppliers may process data on behalf of
vehicle manufacturers (which does not imply they cannot be a data controller for other
purposes). In addition to requiring data processors to implement appropriate technical and
organisational measures in order to guarantee a security level that is adapted to risk, art. 28
GDPR sets out data processors’ obligations.

42. The recipient means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another body, to
which the personal data are disclosed, whether a third party or not.31 As an example, a
commercial partner of the service provider that receives from the service provider personal
data generated from the vehicle is a recipient of personal data. Whether they act as a new
data controller or as a data processor, they shall comply with all the obligations imposed by
the GDPR.

43. However,  public  authorities  which  may  receive  personal  data  in  the  framework  of  a
particular inquiry in accordance with Union or Member State law shall not be regarded as
recipients32; the processing of those data by those public authorities shall be in compliance
with the applicable data protection rules according to the purposes of the processing. As an
example,  law  enforcement  authorities  are  authorised  third  parties  when  they  request
personal data as part of an investigation in accordance with European Union or Member
State law.

30 See GDPR, Article 4 (8) and the Guidelines 07/2020.
31 See GDPR, Article 4 (9) and the Guidelines 07/2020.
32 GDPR, Article 4 (9) and Recital 31.

Adopted

12

1.5 Privacy and data protection risks

44. Article 29 Working Party has already expressed several concerns about Internet of Things
(IoT) systems that can also apply to connected vehicles.33 The issues relating to data security
and  control  already  stressed  regarding  IoT  are  even  more  sensitive  in  the  context  of
connected  vehicles,  since  it  entails  road  safety  concerns – and  can  impact  the  physical
integrity of the driver – in an environment traditionally perceived as isolated and protected
from external interferences.

45. Also, connected vehicles raises significant data protection and privacy concerns regarding
the processing of location data as its increasingly intrusive nature can put a strain on the
current possibilities to remain anonymous. The EDPB wants to place particular emphasis and
raise stakeholders’ awareness to the fact that the use of location technologies requires the
implementation of specific safeguards in order to prevent surveillance of individuals and
misuse of the data.

1.5.1 Lack of control and information asymmetry

46. Vehicle  drivers  and  passengers  may  not  always  be  adequately  informed  about  the
processing of data taking place in or through a connected vehicle. The information may be
given only to the vehicle owner, who may not be the driver, and may also not be provided
in a timely fashion. Thus, there is a risk that there are insufficient functionalities or options
offered to exercise the control necessary for affected individuals to avail themselves of their
data protection and privacy rights. This point is of importance since, during their lifetime,
vehicles may belong to more than one owner either because they are sold or because they
are being leased rather than purchased.

47. Also, communication in the vehicle can be triggered automatically as well as by default,
without  the  individual  being  aware  of  it.  In  the  absence  of  the  possibility  to  effectively
control  how  the  vehicle  and  its  connected  equipment  interact,  it  is  bound  to  become
extraordinarily difficult for the user to control the flow of data. It will be even more difficult
to control its subsequent use, and thereby prevent potential function creep.

1.5.2 Quality of the user’s consent

48. The EDPB underlines that, when the data processing is based on consent, all elements of
valid consent have to be met which means that consent shall be free, specific and informed
and constitutes an unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes as interpreted in
EDPB  guidelines  on  consent.34 Data  controllers  need  to  pay  careful  attention  to  the
modalities of obtaining valid consent from different participants, such as car owners or car
users. Such consent must be provided separately, for specific purposes and may not be
bundled with the contract to buy or lease a new car. Consent must be as easily withdrawn
as it is given.

49. The same has to be applied when consent is required to comply with the ePrivacy directive,
for example if there is a storing of information or the gaining of access to information already
stored in the vehicle as required in certain cases by art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy directive. Indeed,
as outlined above, consent in this context has to be interpreted in light of the GDPR.

33 Article 29 Working Party – Opinion 8/2014 on the Recent Developments on the Internet of Things;
https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp223_en.pdf.
34 European Data Protection Board, Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, Version 1.1, 4
May 2020 (hereinafter - “Guidelines 05/2020”).

Adopted

13

50. In many cases, the user may not be aware of the data processing carried out in his/her
vehicle.  Such  lack of  information  constitutes  a  significant  barrier to  demonstrating  valid
consent under the GDPR, as the consent must be informed. In such circumstances, consent
cannot be relied upon as a legal basis for the corresponding data processing under the GDPR.

51. Classic  mechanisms  used  to  obtain  individuals’  consent  may  be  difficult  to  apply  in  the
context  of  connected  vehicles,  resulting  in  a  “low-quality”  consent  based  on  a  lack  of
information or in the factual impossibility to provide fine-tuned consent in line with the
preferences expressed by individuals. In practice, consent might also be difficult to obtain
for drivers and passengers who are not related to the vehicle’s owner in the case of second-
hand, leased, rented or borrowed vehicles.

52. When  the  ePrivacy  directive  does  not require  the  data  subject  consent,  the  controller
nonetheless has the responsibility of choosing the legal basis under art. 6 GDPR that is most
appropriate to the case for the processing of personal data.

1.5.3 Further processing of personal data

53. When  data is collected  on  the  basis  of  consent  as  required  by art. 5(3)  of  the  ePrivacy
directive or on one of the exemptions of art. 5(3), and subsequently processed in accordance
with art. 6 GDPR, it can only be further processed either if the controller seeks additional
consent for this other purpose or if the data controller can demonstrate that it is based on
a Union or Member State law to safeguard the objectives referred to in art. 23 (1) GDPR35.
The EDPB considers that further processing on the basis of a compatibility test according to
art. 6(4) GDPR is not possible in such cases, since it would undermine the data protection
standard  of  the  ePrivacy  directive. Indeed,  consent,  where  required under  the  ePrivacy
directive, needs to be specific and informed, meaning that data subjects must be aware of
each data processing purpose and entitled to refuse specific ones36. Considering that further
processing on the basis of a compatibility test according to art. 6(4) of the GDPR is possible
would circumvent the very principle of the consent requirements set forth by the current
directive.

54. The EDPB recalls that the initial consent will never legitimise further processing as consent

needs to be informed and specific to be valid.

55. For instance, telemetry data, which is collected during use of the vehicle for maintenance
purposes may not be disclosed to motor insurance companies without the users consent for
the purpose of creating driver profiles to offer driving behaviour-based insurance policies.

56. Furthermore, data collected by connected vehicles may be processed by law enforcement
authorities to detect speeding or other infractions if and when the specific conditions in the
law enforcement directive are fulfilled. In this case, such data will be considered as relating
to criminal convictions and offences under the conditions laid down by art. 10 GDPR and any
applicable national legislation. Manufacturers may provide the law enforcement authorities
with such data if the specific conditions for such processing are fulfilled. The EDPB points
out that processing of personal data for the sole purpose of fulfilling requests made by law
enforcement  authorities  does  not constitute  a  specified,  explicit  and  legitimate  purpose
within the meaning of art. 5(1)(b) GDPR. When law enforcement authorities are authorized
by law, they  could  be third  parties within  the  meaning  of art. 4(10) GDPR, in  this  case

35 See also European Data Protection Board, Guidelines 10/2020 on restrictions under Article 23 GDPR.
36 Guidelines 05/2020, sections 3.2 and 3.3.

Adopted

14

manufacturers would be entitled to provide them with any data at their disposal subject to
compliance with the relevant legal framework in each Member State.

1.5.4 Excessive data collection

57. With the ever-increasing number of sensors being deployed in connected vehicles there is a
very high risk of excessive data collection compared to what is necessary to achieve the
purpose.

58. The  development  of  new  functionalities  and  more  specifically  those  based  on  machine
learning algorithms may require a large amount of data collected over a long period of time.

1.5.5 Security of personal data

59. The plurality of functionalities, services and interfaces (e.g., web, USB, RFID, Wi-Fi) offered
by  connected  vehicles  increases  the  attack  surface  and  thus  the  number  of  potential
vulnerabilities through which personal data could be compromised. Unlike most IoT devices,
connected vehicles are critical systems where a security breach may endanger the life of its
users and people around. The importance of addressing the risk of hackers attempting to
exploit connected vehicles’ vulnerabilities is thus heightened.

60. In  addition,  personal  data  stored  on vehicles  and/or  at  external  locations (e.g.,  in  cloud
computing infrastructures) must be adequately secured against unauthorized access. For
instance, during maintenance, a vehicle has to be handed to a technician who will require
access to some of the vehicle’s technical data. While the technician needs to have access to
the technical data, there is a possibility that the technician could attempt to access all the
data stored in the vehicle.

2 GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS

61. In  order  to  mitigate  the  risks  for  data  subjects  identified  above,  the  following  general
recommendations  should  be  followed  by  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturers,  service
providers or any other stakeholder who may act as data controller or data processor in
relation to connected vehicles.

2.1 Categories of data

62. As  noted  in  the  introduction,  most  data  associated  with  connected  vehicles  will  be
considered personal data to the extent that it is possible to link it to one or more identifiable
individuals. This includes technical data concerning the vehicle’s movements (e.g., speed,
distance  travelled)  as  well  concerning  the  vehicle’s  condition  (e.g.,  engine  coolant
temperature, engine RPM, tyre pressure). Certain data generated by connected vehicles
may also warrant special attention given their sensitivity and/or potential impact on the
rights and interests of data subjects. At present, the EDPB has identified three categories of
personal  data  warranting  special  attention,  by  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturers,
service providers and other data controllers: location data, biometric data (and any special
category of data as defined in art. 9 GDPR) and data that could reveal offences or traffic
violations.

2.1.1 Location data

63. When collecting personal data, vehicle and equipment manufacturers, service providers and
other data controllers should keep in mind that location data are particularly revealing of
the life habits of data subjects. The journeys carried out are very characteristic in that they

Adopted

15

enable one to infer the place of work and of residence, as well as a driver’s centres of interest
(leisure), and may possibly reveal sensitive information such as religion through the place of
worship,  or  sexual  orientation  through the  places  visited.  Accordingly,  the  vehicle  and
equipment manufacturer, service provider and other data controller should be particularly
vigilant not to collect location data except if doing so is absolutely necessary for the purpose
of  processing.  As  an example,  when  the  processing  consists  in  detecting  the  vehicle’s
movement, the gyroscope is sufficient to fulfil that function, without there being a need to
collect location data.

64. In  general,  collecting  location  data  is  also  subject  to  compliance  with  the  following

principles:

 adequate configuration of the frequency of access to, and of the level of detail of, location
data collected relative to the purpose of processing. For example, a weather application should
not be able to access the vehicle’s location every second, even with the consent of the data
subject;

 providing accurate information on the purpose of processing (e.g., is location history stored?

If so, what is its purpose?);

 when the processing is based on consent, obtaining valid (free, specific and informed) consent
that  is  distinct  from  the  general  conditions  of  sale  or  use,  for  example  on  the on-board
computer;

 activating  location  only  when  the  user  launches  a  functionality  that  requires  the  vehicle’s

location to be known, and not by default and continuously when the car is started;

 informing the user that location has been activated, in particular by using icons (e.g., an arrow

that moves across the screen);

 the option to deactivate location at any time;

 defining a limited storage period.

2.1.2

Biometric data

65. In  the  context  of  connected  vehicles,  biometric  data used for the  purpose  of  uniquely
identifying a natural person may be processed, within the remit of art. 9 GDPR and the
national exceptions, among other things, to enable access to a vehicle, to authenticate the
driver/owner, and/or to enable access to a driver’s profile settings and preferences. When
considering the use of biometric data, guaranteeing the data subject full control over his or
her  data  involves,  on  the  one  hand,  providing  for  the  existence  of  a  non-biometric
alternative (e.g., using a physical key or a code) without additional constraint (that is, the
use of biometrics should not be mandatory), and, on the other hand, storing and comparing
the biometric template in encrypted form only on a local basis, with biometric data not being
processed by an external reading/comparison terminal.

66. In the case of biometric data37, it is important to ensure that the biometric authentication

solution is sufficiently reliable, in particular by complying with the following principles:

37 The prohibition principle set out in article 9.1 GDPR only relates to “biometric data for the purpose of
uniquely identifying a natural person”.

Adopted

16

 the  adjustment  of  the  biometric  solution  used  (e.g.,  the  rate  of  false  positives  and  false

negatives) is adapted to the security level of the required access control;

 the biometric solution used is based on a sensor that is resistant to attacks (such as the use of

a flat-printed print for fingerprint recognition);

 the number of authentication attempts is limited;

 the  biometric  template/model  is  stored  in  the  vehicle,  in  an  encrypted  form  using  a

cryptographic algorithm and key management that comply with the state of the art;

 the  raw  data  used  to  make  up  the  biometric  template  and  for  user  authentication  are

processed in real time without ever being stored, even locally.

2.1.3 Data revealing criminal offenses or other infractions

67.

In order to process data that relate to potential criminal offences within the meaning of art.
10 GDPR, the EDPB recommends to resort to the local processing of the data where the data
subject has full control over the processing in question (see discussion on local processing
in section 2.4). Indeed – except for some exceptions (see the case study on accidentology
studies  presented  below  in  section  3.3) – external processing of  data  revealing  criminal
offences or other infractions is forbidden. Thus, according to the sensitivity of the data,
strong security measures such as those described in section 2.7 must be put in place in order
to offer protection against the illegitimate access, modification and deletion of those data.

68. Indeed,  some  categories  of  personal  data  from  connected  vehicles  could  reveal that  a
criminal offence or other infraction has been or is being committed (“offence-related data”)
and therefore be subject to special restrictions (e.g., data indicating that the vehicle crossed
a white line, the instantaneous speed of a vehicle combined with precise location data).
Notably,  in  the  event  that  such  data  would  be  processed  by the  competent  national
authorities for the purposes of criminal investigation and prosecution of criminal offence,
the safeguards provided for in art. 10 GDPR would apply.

2.2 Purposes

69. Personal data may be processed for a wide variety of purposes in relation to connected
vehicles,  including  driver  safety,  insurance,  efficient  transportation,  entertainment  or
information services. In accordance with the GDPR, data controllers must ensure that their
purposes  are  “specified,  explicit  and  legitimate”,  not  further  processed  in  a  way
incompatible with those purposes and that there is a valid legal basis for the processing as
required in art. 5 GDPR. Some concrete examples of purposes that may be pursued by data
controllers operating in the context of connected vehicles are discussed in Part III of these
guidelines, along with specific recommendations for each type of processing.

2.3 Relevance and data minimisation

70. To comply with the data minimization principle38, vehicle and equipment manufacturers,
service providers and other data controllers should pay special attention to the categories
of data they need from a connected vehicle, as they shall only collect personal data that are
relevant  and  necessary  for  the  processing.  For  instance,  location  data  are  particularly
intrusive  and  can  reveal  many  life  habits  of  the  data  subjects.  Accordingly,  industry
participants should be particularly vigilant not to collect location data except if doing so is

38 GDPR, Article 5(1)(c).

Adopted

17

absolutely necessary for the purpose of processing (see discussion on location data above,
in section 2.1).

2.4 Data protection by design and by default

71. Taking  into  account  the  volume  and  diversity  of  personal  data  produced  by  connected
vehicles,  the  EDPB  notes  that  data  controllers  are  required  to  ensure  that  technologies
deployed  in  the  context  of  connected  vehicles  are  configured  to  respect  the  privacy  of
individuals  by  applying  the  obligations  of  data  protection  by  design  and  by  default  as
required by art. 25 GDPR. Technologies should be designed to minimize the collection of
personal data, provide privacy-protective default settings and ensure that data subjects are
well informed and have the option to easily modify configurations associated with their
personal data. Specific guidance on how manufacturers and service providers can comply
with data protection by design and by default could be beneficial for the industry and third
party application providers.

72. Certain general practices, described below, can also help mitigate the risks to the rights and

freedoms of natural persons associated with connected vehicles39.

2.4.1 Local processing of personal data

73. In  general,  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturers,  service  providers  and  other  data
controllers should, wherever possible, use processes that do not involve personal data or
transferring personal data outside of the vehicle (i.e., the data is processed internally). The
nature of connected vehicles however does present risks, such as the possibility of attacks
on local processing by outside actors or local data being leaked by selling parts of the vehicle.
Therefore, adequate  attention  and  security  measures  should  be  taken  into  account  to
ensure  that  local  processing  shall  remain  local.    This  scenario  offers the  advantage  of
guaranteeing to the user the sole and full control of his/her personal data and, as such, it
presents, “by design”, less privacy risks especially by prohibiting any data processing by
stakeholders without the data subject knowledge. It also enables the processing of sensitive
data such as biometric data or data relating to criminal offenses or other infractions, as well
as detailed location data which otherwise would be subject to stricter rules (see below). In
the same vein, it presents fewer cybersecurity risks and involves little latency, which makes
it particularly suited to automated driving-assistance functions. Some examples of this type
of solution could include:

 eco-driving applications that process data in the vehicle in order to display eco-driving advice

in real time on the on-board screen;

 applications that involve a transfer of personal data to a device such as a smartphone under
the user’s full control (via, for example, Bluetooth or Wi-Fi), and where the vehicle’s data are
not transmitted to the application providers or the vehicle manufacturers; this would include,
for  instance,  coupling  of  smartphones  to  use  the  car’s  display,  multimedia  systems,
microphone  (or  other  sensors)  for  phone  calls,  etc.,  to  the  extent  that  the  data  collected
remain under the control of the data subject and is exclusively used to provide the service he
or she has requested;

 in-vehicle safety enhancing applications such as those that provide audible signals or vibrations
of the steering wheel when a driver overtakes a car without indicating or straying over white

39 See as well European Data Protection Board, Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25 Data Protection by Design and
by Default, Version 2.0, adopted on 20 October 2020  (hereinafter - “Guidelines 4/2019”).

Adopted

18

lines or which provides alerts as to the state of the vehicle (e.g., an alert on the wear and tear
affecting brake pads);

 applications  for  unlocking,  starting,  and/or  activating  certain  vehicle  commands  using  the
driver’s biometric data that is stored within the vehicle (such as a face or voice models or
fingerprint minutiae).

74. Applications such as the above involve processing carried out for the performance of purely
personal activities by a natural person (i.e., without the transfer of personal data to a data
in  accordance  with  art. 2(2)  GDPR, these
controller  or  data  processor).  Therefore,
applications fall outside the scope of the GDPR.

75. However, if the GDPR does not apply to the processing of personal data by a natural person
in  the  course  of  a  purely  personal  or  household  activity,  it  does  apply  to  controllers  or
processors,  which provide  the  means  for processing  personal  data  for  such  personal  or
household activities (car manufacturers, service provider, etc.) in accordance with recital 18
GDPR. Hence, when they are acting as data controller or data processor, they must develop
secure in-car application and with due respect to the principle of privacy by design and by
default. In any case, according to recital 78 GDPR, “When developing, designing, selecting
and using applications, services and products that are based on the processing of personal
data or process personal data to fulfil their task, producers of the products, services and
applications should be encouraged to take into account the right to data protection when
developing and designing such products, services and applications and, with due regard to
the state of the art, to make sure that controllers and processors are able to fulfil their data
protection obligations”.40 One the one hand, it will enhance the development of user-centric
services and, on the other hand, it will facilitate and secure any further uses in the future
which could fall back within the scope of the GDPR. More specifically, the EDPB recommends
developing a secure in-car application platform, physically divided from safety relevant car
functions so that the access to car data does not depend on unnecessary external cloud
capabilities.

76. Local data processing should be considered by car manufacturers and service providers,
whenever possible, to mitigate the potential risks of cloud processing, as they are underlined
in the opinion on Cloud Computing released by the Article 29 Working Party.41

77. In general users should be able to control how their data are collected and processed in the

vehicle:

 information  regarding  the  processing  must  be  provided  in  the  driver’s  language  (manual,

settings, etc.);

 the EDPB recommends that only data strictly necessary for the functioning of the vehicle are
processed by default. Data subjects should have the possibility to activate or deactivate the
data processing for each other purpose and controller/processor and have the possibility to
delete the data concerned, taking into account the purpose and the legal basis of the data
processing ;

40 For more recommendations on privacy by design and privacy by default see also Guidelines 4/2019.
41 Article 29 Working Party – Opinion 5/2012 on Cloud Computing; https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-
29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2012/wp196_en.pdf.

Adopted

19

 data should not be transmitted to any third parties (i.e., the user has sole access to the data);

 data should be retained only for as long as is necessary for the provision of the service or

otherwise required by Union or Member State law;

 data subjects should be able to delete permanently any personal data before the vehicles are

put up for sale;

 data subjects should, where feasible, have a direct access to the data generated by these

applications.

78. Finally, while it may not always be possible to resort to local data processing for every use-
case, “hybrid processing” can often be put in place. For instance, in the context of usage-
based insurance, personal data regarding driving behaviour (such as the force exerted on
the brake pedal, mileage driven, etc.) could either be processed inside the vehicle or by the
telematics  service  provider  on  behalf of  the  insurance  company (the  data controller)  to
generate numerical scores that are transferred to the insurance company on a defined basis
(e.g. on a monthly basis). In this way, the insurance company does not gain access to the
raw behavioural data but only to the aggregate score that is the result of the processing.
This ensures that principles of data minimization are satisfied by design. This also means
that users must have the ability to exercise their right when data are stored by other parties:
for example, a user should have the ability to delete data stored in the systems of a car
maintenance shop or dealership under the conditions of art.17 GDPR.

2.4.2 Anonymization and pseudonymisation

79. If the transmission of personal data outside the vehicle is envisaged, consideration should
be given to anonymize them before being transmitted. When anonymising the controller
should  take  into  account  all  processing  involved  which  could  potentially  lead  to  re-
identification of data, such as the transmission of locally anonymised data. The EDPB recalls
that  the  principles  of  data protection  do  not  apply  to  anonymous  information,  namely
information  which  does  not  relate  to  an  identified  or  identifiable  natural  person  or  to
personal data rendered anonymous in such a manner that the data subject is not or no
longer  identifiable42.  Once  a  dataset  is  truly  anonymised  and  individuals  are  no  longer
identifiable,  European  data  protection 
longer  applies.  As  a  consequence,
anonymisation, where relevant, may be a good strategy to keep the benefits and to mitigate
the risks in relation to connected vehicles.

law  no 

80. As detailed in the opinion by the Article 29 Working Party on anonymization techniques,
various  methods  can  be  used – sometimes  in  combination – in  order  to  reach  data
anonymisation.43

81. Other techniques such as pseudonymisation44 can help minimize the risks generated by the
data processing, taking into account that in most cases, directly identifiable data are not
necessary  to  achieve  the  purpose  of  the  processing.  Pseudonymisation,  if  reinforced  by
security  safeguards,  improves  the  protection  of  personal data  by  reducing  the  risks  of

42 See GDPR, Article 4 (1) and Recital 26.
43 WP29 - Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymisation Techniques; https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-
29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp216_en.pdf.
44 GDPR, Article 4 (5). Enisa report on December 03, 2019:
https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/pseudonymisation-techniques-and-best-practices.

Adopted

20

misuse. Pseudonymisation is reversible, unlike anonymisation, and pseudonymised data are
considered as personal data subject to the GDPR.

2.4.3 Data protection impact assessments

82. Given the scale and sensitivity of the personal data that can be generated via connected
vehicles;  it  is  likely  that  processing – particularly  in  situations  where  personal  data  are
processed outside of the vehicle - will often result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms
of individuals. Where this is the case, industry participants will be required to perform a data
protection impact assessment (DPIA) to identify and mitigate the risks as detailed in art. 35
and 36 GDPR. Even in the cases where a DPIA is not required, it is a best practice to conduct
one as early as possible in the design process. This will allow industry participants to factor
the results of this analysis into their design choices prior to the roll-out of new technologies.

2.5 Information

83. Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed of the identity
of the data controller (e.g., the vehicle and equipment manufacturer or service provider),
the purpose of processing, the data recipients, the period for which data will be stored, and
the data subject’s rights under the GDPR45.

84. In  addition,  the  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturer,  service  provider  or  other  data
controller should also  provide  the  data  subject  with  the  following  information,  in  clear,
simple, and easily-accessible terms:

 the contact details of the data protection officer;

 the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal

basis for the processing;

 the explicit mention of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third

party, when such legitimate interests constitute the legal basis for processing;

 the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;

 the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used

to determine that period;

 the existence of the right to request from the controller access to and rectification or erasure
of  personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  concerning  the  data  subject  or  to  object  to
processing as well as the right to data portability;

 the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time without affecting the lawfulness of
processing based on consent before its withdrawal where the processing is based on consent;

 where  applicable,  the  fact  that  the  controller  intends  to  transfer  personal  data  to  a  third

country or international organisation and safeguards used to transfer them;

 whether  the  provision  of  personal  data  is  a  statutory  or  contractual  requirement,  or  a
requirement necessary to enter into a contract, as well as whether the data subject is obliged
to provide the personal data and of the possible consequences of failure to provide such data;

45 GDPR, Article 5 (1) (a) and 13. See also Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on Transparency under
Regulation 2016/679 (wp260rev.01), endorsed by the EDPB.

Adopted

21

 the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling that produces legal effects
concerning the data subject or similarly significantly affects the data subject, and meaningful
information  about  the  logic  involved,  as  well  as  the  significance  and  the  envisaged
consequences of such processing for the data subject. This could particularly be the case in
relation to the provision of usage-based insurance to individuals;

 the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;

 information about further processing;

 In case of joint data controllership, clear and complete information about the responsibilities

of each data controller.

85. In some cases, personal data is not collected directly from the individual concerned. For
instance, a vehicle and equipment manufacturer may rely on a dealer to collect information
about the owner of the vehicle in order to offer an emergency road side assistance service.
When  data  have  not  been  collected  directly,  the  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturer,
service provider or other data controller shall, in addition to the information mentioned
above, also indicate the categories of personal data concerned, the source from which the
personal data originate, and, if applicable, whether those data came from publicly accessible
sources. That information must be provided by the controller within a reasonable period
after obtaining the data, and no later than the first of the following dates in accordance
with art. 14 (3) GDPR: (i) one month after the data are obtained, having regard to the specific
circumstances in which the personal data are processed, (ii) upon first communication with
the data subject, or (iii) if those data are transmitted to a third party, before the transmission
of the data.

86. New information may also need to be provided to data subjects when they are taken care
of  by  new  data  controller. A roadside  assistance service that  interacts  with  connected
vehicles can be provided by different data controllers depending in which country or region
the  assistance  is required.  New  data  controllers should provide  data  subjects  with  the
required  information  when  data  subjects  cross  borders  and  services  that  interact  with
connected vehicles are provided by new data controllers.

87. The information directed to the data subjects may be provided in layers46, i.e. by separating
two  levels  of  information:  on  the  one  hand,  first-level  information,  which  is  the  most
important for the data subjects, and, on the other hand, information that presumably is of
interest at a later stage. The essential first-level information includes, in addition to the
identity of the data controller, the purpose of the processing and a description of the data
subject’s rights, as well as any additional information on the processing which has the most
impact  on  the  data  subject  and  processing  which  could  surprise  them.  The  EDPB
recommends that, in the context of connected vehicles, the data subject should be made
aware of all the recipients in the first layer of information. As stated in the WP29 guidelines
on  transparency,  controllers should provide  information  on  the  recipients  that  is  most
meaningful for data subjects. In practice, this will generally be the named recipients, so that
data subjects know exactly who has their personal data. If controllers cannot provide the
names of the recipients, the information should be as specific as possible by indicating the

46 See Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on Transparency under Regulation 2016/679 (wp260rev.01),
endorsed by the EDPB.

Adopted

22

type of recipient (i.e. by reference to the activities it carries out), the industry, sector and
sub-sector, and the location of the recipients.

88. The data subjects may be informed by concise and easily understandable clauses in the
contract of sale of the vehicle, in the contract for the provision of services, and/or in any
written medium, by using distinct documents (e.g., the vehicle’s maintenance record book
or manual) or the on-board computer.

89. Standardised  icons could  be  used  in  addition  to  the  information  necessary,  as  required
under art. 13 and 14 GDPR, to enhance transparency by potentially reducing the need for
vast amounts of written information to be presented to a data subject. It should be visible
in vehicles in order to provide, in relation to the planned processing, a good overview that
is understandable, and clearly legible. The EDPB emphasises the importance of standardising
those icons, so that the user finds the same symbols regardless of the make or model of the
vehicle. For example, when certain types of data are being collected, such as location, the
vehicles could have a clear signal on-board (such as a light inside the vehicle) to inform
passengers about data collection.

2.6 Rights of the data subject

90. Vehicle and equipment manufacturers, service providers and other data controllers should
facilitate data subjects’ control over their data during the entire processing period, through
the implementation of specific tools providing an effective way to exercise their rights, in
particular their right of access, rectification, erasure, their right to restrict the processing
and, depending on the legal basis of the processing, their right to data portability and their
right to object.

91. To facilitate settings modifications, a profile management system should be implemented
in order to store the preferences of known drivers and help them to change easily their
privacy  settings  anytime.  The  profile  management  system  should  centralize  every  data
setting for each data processing, especially to facilitate the access, deletion, removal and
portability of personal data from vehicle systems at the request of the data subject. Drivers
should  be  enabled  to  stop  the  collection  of  certain  types  of  data,  temporarily  or
permanently, at any moment, unless there is a specific legal ground that the controller can
rely on  to  continue  the  collection of  specific  data.  In  case of  a  contract that  provides  a
personalized offer based on driving behaviour this may mean that the user as a result should
be  reverted  to  the  standard conditions of  that  contract. These features should be
implemented inside the vehicle, although it could also be provided to data subjects through
additional means (e.g., dedicated application). Furthermore, in order to allow data subjects
to quickly and easily remove personal data that can be stored on the car’s dashboard (for
example,  GPS  navigation  history,  web  browsing, etc.), the  EDPB  recommends  that
manufacturers provide a simple functionality (such as a delete button).

92. The sale of a connected vehicle and the ensuing change of ownership should also trigger the
deletion of any personal data, which is no longer needed for the previous specified purposes
and the data subject should be able to exercise his or her right to portability.

2.7 Security

93. Vehicle and equipment manufacturers, service providers and other data controllers should
put in place measures that guarantee the security and confidentiality of processed data and

Adopted

23

take all useful precautions to prevent control being taken by an unauthorised person. In
particular, industry participants should consider adopting the following measures:

 encrypting the communication channels by means of a state-of-the-art algorithm;

 putting in place an encryption-key management system that is unique to each vehicle, not to

each model;

 when stored remotely, encrypting data by means of state-of-the-art algorithms;

 regularly renewing encryption keys;

 protecting encryptions keys from any disclosure;

 authenticating data-receiving devices;

 ensuring data integrity (e.g., by hashing);

 make access to personal data subject to reliable user authentication techniques (password,

electronic certificate, etc.);

94. Concerning  more  specifically  vehicle  manufacturers,  the  EDPB  recommends  the

implementation of the following security measures:

 partitioning  the  vehicle’s  vital  functions  from  those  always  relying  on  telecommunication

capacities (e.g., “infotainment”);

 implementing technical measures that enable vehicle manufacturers to rapidly patch security

vulnerabilities during the entire lifespan of the vehicle;

 for the vehicle’s vital functions, give priority as much as possible to using secure means of

communications that are specifically dedicated to transportation;

 setting up an alarm system in case of attack on the vehicle’s systems, with the possibility of

operating in downgraded mode47;

 storing a log history of any access to the vehicle’s information system, e.g. going back six
months  as  a maximum period,  in order  to  enable  the  origin of  any  potential attack  to  be
understood and periodically carry out a review of the logged information to detect possible
anomalies.

95. These general recommendations should be completed by specific requirements taking into

account the characteristics and purpose of each data processing.

2.8 Transmitting personal data to third parties

96. In principle, only the data controller and the data subject have access to the data generated
by  a connected  vehicle.  However,  the  data  controller  may  transmit  personal  data  to  a
commercial partner (recipient), to the extent that such transmission lawfully relies on one
of the legal bases stated in art. 6 GDPR.

47 Downgraded mode is a vehicle operating mode ensuring that the functions essential for the safe operation of
the vehicle (i.e., minimum safety requirements) would be guaranteed, even if other less important
functionalities would be deactivated (e.g., the operation of the geo-guidance device can be considered as non-
essential, as opposed to the braking system).

Adopted

24

97. In view of the possible sensitivity of the vehicle-usage data (e.g., journeys made, driving
style), the EDPB recommends that the data subject’s consent be systematically obtained
before their data are transmitted to a commercial partner acting as a data controller (e.g.,
by ticking a box that is not pre-ticked, or, where technically possible, by using a physical or
logical device that the person can access from the vehicle). The commercial partner in turn
becomes responsible for the data that it receives, and is subject to all the provisions of the
GDPR.

98. The vehicle manufacturer, service provider or other data controller can transmit personal
data to a data processor selected to play a part in providing the service to the data subject,
provided the data processor shall not use those data for its own purpose. Data controllers
and  data  processors  shall  draw  up  a  contract  or  other  legal  document  specifying  the
obligations of each party and setting out the provisions of art. 28 GDPR.

2.9 Transfer of personal data outside the EU/EEA

99. When personal data is transferred outside the European Economic Area, special safeguards

are foreseen to ensure that the protection travels with the data.

100. As a consequence, the data controller may transfer personal data to a recipient only to the
extent that such transfer is in accordance with the requirements laid down in Chapter V
GDPR.

Adopted

25

2.10 Use of in-vehicle Wi-Fi technologies

101. Advances in cellular technology have made it possible to easily use the Internet on the road.
While it is possible to get Wi-Fi connectivity in a vehicle through a smartphone hotspot or
a dedicated device (OBD-II dongle, wireless modem or router, etc.), most manufacturers
offer nowadays models that include a built-in cellular data connection and are also capable
of creating Wi-Fi networks. Depending on the case, various aspects must be considered:

The Wi-Fi connectivity is offered as a service by a road professional, such as a taxi driver for
its customers. In this case, the professional or his/her company might be considered as an
internet  service  provider  (ISP),  hence  be  subject  to  specific  obligations  and  restrictions
regarding the processing of his / her clients’ personal data.

The Wi-Fi connectivity is put in place for the sole use of the driver (at the exclusion of the
driver and his/her passengers). In this case, the processing of personal data is considered
to be purely personal or household activity in accordance with art. 2(2)(c) and recital 18
GDPR.

102. In general, the proliferation of Internet connection interfaces via Wi-Fi poses greater risks
to  the  privacy  of  individuals.  Indeed,  through  their  vehicles,  users  become  continuous
broadcasters, and can therefore be identified and tracked. In order to prevent tracking, easy
to operate opt-out options ensuring the service set identifier (SSID) of the on-board Wi-Fi
network is not collected should therefore be put in place by the vehicle and equipment
manufacturers.

3 CASE STUDIES

103. This  section  addresses  five  specific  examples  of  processing  in  the  context  of  connected
vehicles, which correspond to scenarios likely to be encountered by stakeholders in the
sector. The examples cover data processing that requires calculating power which cannot
be mobilised locally in the vehicle, and/or the sending of personal data to a third party to
carry out  further  analysis or  to  provide  further  functionality  remotely.  For  each  type of
processing, this document specifies the intended purposes, the categories of data collected,
the retention period of such data, the rights of data subjects, the security measures to be
implemented, and the recipients of the information. In the case some of these fields are not
described in the following, the general recommendations described in the previous part
apply.

104. The examples chosen are non-exhaustive and are meant to be indicative of the variety of
types  of  processing,  legal  bases, actors,  etc.  that  might  be  engaged  in  the  context  of
connected vehicles.

3.1 Provision of a service by a third party

105. Data subjects may contract with a service provider in order to obtain added-value services
relating to their vehicle. For example, a data subject may enter into a usage-based insurance
contract that offers reduced insurance premiums for less driving (“Pay As You Drive”) or
good driving behaviour (“Pay How You Drive”) and which necessitates monitoring of driving
habits by the insurance company. A data subject could also contract with a company that
offers roadside assistance in the event of a breakdown and which entails the transmission
of  the  vehicle’s  location  to  the  company  or  with  a  service  provider  in  order  to  receive

Adopted

26

messages or alerts relating to the vehicle’s functioning (e.g., an alert on the state of brake
wear, or a reminder of the technical-inspection date).

3.1.1 Usage-based insurance

106. “Pay as you drive” is a type of usage-based insurance that tracks the driver’s mileage and/or
driving habits to differentiate and reward "safe" drivers by giving them lower premiums. The
insurer will require the driver to install a built-in telematics service, a mobile application or
activate a built-in module from manufacturing that tracks the miles covered and/or the
driving behaviour (braking  pattern,  rapid  acceleration,  etc.)  of  the  policy  holder.  The
information gathered by the telematic device will be used to assign the driver scores in order
to analyse what risks he/she may pose to the insurance company.

107. As usage-based insurance requires consent under art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy directive, the
EDPB outlines that the policy holder must have the choice to subscribe to a non-usage-based
insurance  policy. Otherwise,  consent  would  not  be  considered  freely  given, as the
performance of the contract would be conditional on the consent. Further, art. 7(3) GDPR
requires that a data subject must have the right to withdraw consent.

3.1.1.1

Legal basis

108. When the data is collected through a publicly available electronic communication service
(for example via the SIM card contained in the telematics device), consent will be needed in
order to gain access to information that is already stored in the vehicle as provided by art.
5(3) ePrivacy directive. Indeed, none of the exemptions provided by those provisions can
apply  in  this  context:  the  processing  is  not  for  the  sole  purpose  of  carrying  out  the
transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network nor does it
relate  to  an  information  society  service  explicitly  requested  by  the  subscriber or  user.
Consent could be collected at the time of the conclusion of the contract.

109. As regards the processing of personal data following the storage or access to the end-user’s
terminal equipment, the insurance company can rely on art. 6(1)(b) GDPR in this specific
context provided it can establish both that the processing takes place in the context of a
valid  contract  with  the  data  subject  and  that  processing  is  necessary  in  order  that  the
particular contract with the data subject can be performed. Insofar as the processing is
objectively necessary for the performance of the contract with the data subject, the EDPB
considers that reliance upon art. 6(1)(b) GDPR would not have the effect of lowering the
additional protection provided by art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy directive in this specific instance.
That legal basis is materialised by the data subject signing a contract with the insurance
company.

3.1.1.2 Data collected

110. There is two types of personal data to be considered:

 commercial  and  transactional  data:  data subject’s  identifying  information,  transaction-

related data, data relating to means of payment, etc.;

 usage data: personal data generated by the vehicle, driving habits, location, etc.
111. The EDPB recommends that, as far as possible, and given that there is a risk that the data
collected via the telematics-box could be misused to create a precise profile of the driver’s
movements, raw data regarding driving behaviour should be either processed:

Adopted

27

 inside the vehicle in telematics boxes or in the user’s smartphone so that the insurer only
accesses the results data (e.g., a score relating to driving habits), not detailed raw data (see
section 2.1);

 or by the telematics service provider on behalf of the controller (the insurance company) to
generate numerical scores that are transferred to the insurance company on a defined basis.
In this case, raw data and data directly relating to the identity of the driver must be separated.
This means that the telematics service provider receives the real-time data, but does not know
the names, licence plates, etc. of the policy holders. On the other hand, the insurer knows the
names of policyholders, but only receives the scores and the total kilometres and not the raw
data used to produce such scores.

112. Moreover, it has to be noted that if only the mileage is necessary for the performance of the

contract, location data shall not be collected.

3.1.1.3

Retention period

113. In  the  context  of  data  processing  taking  place  for  the  performance  of  a  contract (i.e.
provision  of  a  service),  it  is  important  to  distinguish  between  two  types  of  data  before
defining their respective retention periods:

 commercial and transactional data: those data can be retained in an active database for the
full duration of the contract. At the end of the contract, they can be archived physically (on a
separate  medium: DVD,  etc.)  or  logically  (by  authorisation  management)  in  the  event  of
possible litigation. Thereafter, at the end of the statutory limitation periods, the data shall be
deleted or anonymised;

 usage data: usage data can be classified as raw data and aggregated data. As stated above, if
possible, data controllers or processors should not process raw data. If it is necessary, raw data
should be kept only as long as they are required to elaborate the aggregated data and to check
the  validity  of  that  aggregation  process.  Aggregated  data  should  be  kept  as  long  as it  is
necessary for the provision of the service or otherwise requested by a Union or Member State
law.

3.1.1.4

Information and rights of data subjects

114. Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed according to art.
13 GDPR,  in  a  transparent  and  understandable  way.  In  particular,  he  or  she  must  be
informed of the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible,
the criteria used to determine that period. In this last case, the EDPB recommends to adopt
a  pedagogic  approach  to  emphasize  the difference  between  raw  data  and  the  score
produced on this basis, stressing, when it is the case, that the insurer will only collect the
result of the score where appropriate.

115. Where data are not processed inside the vehicle but by a telematics provider on behalf of
the controller (the insurance company), the information could usefully mention that, in this
case, the provider will not have access to data directly relating to the identity of the driver
(such as names, licence plates, etc.). Also, considering the importance of informing data
subjects as to the consequences of processing of their personal data and the fact that data
subjects should not be taken by surprise by the processing of their personal data, the EDPB
recommends that data subject should be informed of the existence of profiling and the
consequences of such profiling even if it does not involve any automated decision-making
as referred to in art. 22 GDPR.

Adopted

28

116. Regarding  the  right of  data  subjects,  they  shall  be  specifically  informed of  the  available
means to exercise his or her right of access, rectification, restriction and erasure. Since raw
data collected in this context are provided by the data subject (through specific forms or
through his or her activity) and processed on the basis of art. 6(1)(b) GDPR (performance of
a contract), the data subject is entitled to exercise his or her right to data portability. As
emphasized in the guidelines on the right to data portability, the EDPB strongly recommends
“that data controllers clearly explain the difference between the types of data that a data
subject can receive through the rights of subject access and data portability”.48

117. The information can be provided when the contract is signed.

3.1.1.5

Recipient:

118. The EDPB recommends that, as far as possible, the vehicle’s usage data should be processed
directly in telematics boxes, so that the insurer only accesses the results data (e.g. a score),
not detailed raw data.

119. If a telematics service provider collects the data on behalf of the controller (the insurance
company) to generate numerical scores, it does not need to know the identity of the driver
(such as names, licence plates, etc.) of the policy holders.

3.1.1.6

Security:

120. General recommendations apply. See section 2.7.

3.1.2 Renting and booking a parking space

121. The owner of a parking place may want to rent it. For this, he/she lists a spot and sets a price
for it on a web application. Then, once the parking spot is listed, the application notifies the
owner when a driver wants to book it. The driver can select a destination and check for
available  parking  spots  based  on multiple  criteria.  After  the  approval of  the owner,  the
transaction is confirmed and the service provider handles the payment transaction then
uses navigation to drive to the location.

3.1.2.1

Legal basis

122. When the data is collected through a publicly available electronic communication, art. 5(3)

of the ePrivacy directive applies.

123. Because this is an information society service, art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy directive does not
require consent for gaining access to information that is already stored in the vehicle when
such a service is explicitly requested by the subscriber.

124. For the processing of personal data and only for data necessary for the performance of the

contract to which the data subject is party, art. 6(1)(b) GDPR will be the legal basis.

3.1.2.2 Data collected

125. Data processed includes the driver contact details (name, email, telephone number, vehicle
type (e.g. car, truck, motorcycle), license plate number, parking period, payment details (e.g.
credit card info) as well as navigation data.

48 Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on the right to data portability under Regulation 2016/676, WP242
rev.01, endorsed by EDPB, p. 13.

Adopted

29

3.1.2.3

Retention period

126. Data should be  retained only as  long  as  it  is  necessary  to  fulfil  the  parking  contract  or
otherwise as provided by Union or Member State law. After that data is either anonymised
or deleted.

3.1.2.4

Information and rights of data subjects

127. Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject should be informed according to

art. 13 GDPR, in a transparent and understandable way.

128. The data subject should be specifically informed of the available means to exercise his or
her right of access, rectification, restriction and erasure. Since the data collected in this
context  are  provided  by  the  data  subject  (through  specific  forms  or  through  his  or  her
activity) and processed on the basis of art. 6(1)(b) GDPR (performance of a contract), the
data subject is entitled to exercise his or her right to data portability. As emphasized in the
guidelines  on  the  right  to  data  portability,  the  EDPB  strongly  recommends  “that  data
controllers clearly explain the difference between the types of data that a data subject can
receive through the rights of subject access and data portability”.

3.1.2.5

Recipient:

129. In principle, only the data controller and the data processor have access to the data.

3.1.2.6

Security:

130. General recommendations apply. See section 2.7.

3.2 eCall

131. In the event of a serious accident in the European Union, the vehicle automatically triggers
an eCall to 112, the EU-wide emergency number (see section 1.1 for further details) which
allows an ambulance to be sent the place of the accident promptly according to Regulation
(EU) 2015/758 of 29 April 2015 concerning type-approval requirements for the deployment
of the eCall in-vehicle system based on the 112 service, and amending Directive 2007/46/EC
(hereinafter - “Regulation (EU) 2015/758”).

132. Indeed, the eCall generator installed inside the vehicle, which enables transmission via a
public mobile wireless communications network initiates an emergency call, which is either
triggered automatically by vehicle sensors or manually by the vehicle occupants only in the
event  of  an  accident.  In  addition  to  activation  of  the  audio  channel,  the  second  event
triggered automatically as a result of an accident consists in generating the Minimum Set of
Data (MSD) and sending it to the public safety answering point (PSAP).

3.2.1 Legal basis

133. Regarding the application of the ePrivacy directive, two provisions have to be considered:

 art. 9  regarding  location  data  other  than  traffic  data  which  only  applies  to  electronic

communication services;

 art. 5(3)  for  the  gaining  access  to  information  stored  in  the  generator  installed  inside  the

vehicle.

134. Despite the fact that, in principle, those provisions require the consent of the data subject,
Regulation (EU) 2015/758  constitutes  a  legal  obligation  to  which  the  data  controller  is
subject (the data subject has no genuine or free choice and will be unable to refuse the

Adopted

30

processing of his/her data). Hence, Regulation (EU) 2015/758 overrides the need of the
driver’s consent for the processing of location data and the MSD.49

135. The legal basis of the processing of those data will be compliance with a legal obligation as

provided for in art. 6(1)(c) GDPR (i.e., Regulation (EU) 2015/758).

3.2.2 Data collected

136. Regulation (EU) 2015/578 provides that data sent by the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system
shall include only the minimum information as referred to in the standard EN 15722:2015
‘Intelligent transport systems — eSafety — eCall minimum set of data (MSD)’ including:

 the indication if eCall has been manually or automatically triggered;

 the vehicle type;

 the vehicle identification number (VIN);

 the propulsion type of the vehicle;

 the timestamp of the initial data message generation within the current eCall incident event;

 the  last  known  vehicle  latitude  and  longitude  position  determined  at  the  latest  moment

possible before message generation;

 the vehicle’s last known real direction of travel determined at the latest moment possible

before message generation (only the last three locations of the vehicle).

3.2.3 Retention period

137. Regulation (EU) 2015/758 stipulates that data shall not be retained for longer than is needed
for processing emergency situations. Those data shall be completely deleted when they are
no longer needed for that purpose. Furthermore, in the internal memory of the eCall system,
data shall be automatically and constantly deleted. Only the vehicle’s last three positions
can be stored, insofar as it is strictly necessary to specify the current position of the vehicle
and the direction of travel at the time of the event.

3.2.4 Information and rights of data subjects

138. Art. 6 of the Regulation (EU) 2015/758 stipulates that manufacturers shall provide clear and
complete information on data processing done using the eCall system. This information shall
be provided in the owner's manual separately for the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system and
any third-party service supported eCall systems prior to the use of the system. It includes:

 the reference to the legal basis for the processing;

 the fact that the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system is activated by default;

 the arrangements for data processing that the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system performs;

49 It has to be noted that Article 8-1-f of the Council negotiation mandate for the proposal for an “ePrivacy”
regulation does provide a specific exemption for eCall as consent is not needed when “it is necessary to locate
terminal equipment when an end-user makes an emergency communication either to the single European
emergency number ‘112’ or a national emergency number, in accordance with Article 13(3).”

Adopted

31

 the specific purpose of the eCall processing, which shall be limited to the emergency situations

referred to in the first subparagraph of Art. 5(2) Regulation (EU) 2015/758;

 the types of data collected and processed and the recipients of that data;

 the time limit for the retention of data in the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system;

 the fact that there is no constant tracking of the vehicle;

 the arrangements for exercising data subjects' rights as well as the contact service responsible

for handling access requests;

 any  necessary  additional  information  regarding  traceability,  tracking  and  processing  of
personal  data  in  relation  to the  provision of  a third-party service  (TPS) eCall  and/or  other
added value services, which shall be subject to explicit consent by the owner and in compliance
with the GDPR. Particular account shall be taken of the fact that differences may exist between
the data processing carried out through the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system and the TPS
eCall in-vehicle systems or other added value services.

139. Furthermore, the service provider shall also provide the data subjects with information in
accordance with art. 13 GDPR in a transparent and understandable way. In particular, he or
she must be informed of the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are
intended as well as the fact that the processing of personal data is based on a legal obligation
to which the controller is subject.

140. In addition, taking into account the nature of the processing, the information about the
recipients or categories  of  recipients  of  the  personal  data should be  clear  and  the  data
subjects should be informed that the data are not be available outside the 112-based eCall
in-vehicle system to any entities before the eCall is triggered.

141. Regarding rights of data subjects, it has to be noted that since the processing is based on a

legal obligation, the right to object and the right to portability will not apply.

3.2.5 Recipient:

142. The data shall not be available outside the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system to any entities

before the eCall is triggered.

143. When it is triggered (either manually by vehicle occupants or automatically as soon as an in-
vehicle sensor detects a serious collision), the eCall system establishes a voice connection
with the relevant PSAP and the MSD is sent to the PSAP operator.

144. Furthermore, data transmitted via the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system and processed by
the PSAPs can be transferred to the emergency service and service partners referred to in
Decision No 585/2014/EU only in the event of incidents related to eCalls and under the
conditions  set  out  in  that  Decision  and  are  used  exclusively  for  the  attainment  of  the
objectives of that Decision. Data processed by the PSAPs through the 112-based eCall in-
vehicle  system  are  not  transferred  to  any  other  third  parties  without  the  explicit  prior
consent of the data subject.

3.2.6 Security

145. Regulation (EU) 2015/758 stipulates the requirements to incorporate into the eCall system
technologies  that  strengthen  the  protection  of  privacy,  in  order  to  offer  users  the
appropriate  level of  protection of  privacy,  as  well  as  the  guarantees  needed to  prevent

Adopted

32

surveillance  and  abusive uses.  In  addition,  manufacturers should ensure  that  the eCall
system based on the number 112, as well as any other system providing an eCall that is
handled  by  third-party  services  or  an  added-value  service,  are  so  designed  that  it  is
impossible for personal data to be exchanged between those systems.

146. Regarding PSAPs, Member States should ensure that personal data are protected against
misuse, including unlawful access, alteration or loss, and that protocols concerning personal
data  storage,  retention  duration,  processing  and  protection  are established  at  the
appropriate level and properly observed.

3.3 Accidentology studies

147. Data subjects may voluntarily agree to take part in accidentology studies aimed at better

understanding the causes of road accidents and more generally scientific purposes.

3.3.1 Legal basis

148. When the data are collected through a public electronic communication service, the data
controller will have to collect the consent of the data subject for the gaining of access to
information that is already stored in the vehicle as provided by art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy
directive. Indeed, none of the exemptions provided by those provisions can apply in this
context: the processing is not for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a
communication  over  an  electronic  communications network  nor  does  it  relate  to  an
information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user.

149. Regarding the processing of personal data and taking into account the variety and amount
of personal data needed for accidentology studies, the EDPB recommends the processing to
be  based on the prior  consent of  the  data  subject according to art. 6 GDPR.  Such  prior
consent must be provided on a specific form, through which the data subject volunteers to
take part to the study and have his or her personal data processed for that purpose. Consent
shall be an expression of the free, specific, and informed will of the person whose data are
being  processed  (e.g.,  ticking  a  box  that  is  not  pre-ticked,  or  configuring  the  onboard
computer to activate a function in the vehicle). Such consent must be provided separately,
for specific purposes, may not be bundled with the contract to buy or lease a new car and
the consent must be as easily withdrawn as it is given. Withdrawal of consent shall lead to
the processing being stopped. The data shall then be deleted from the active database, or
anonymised.

150. Consent required by art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy directive and consent needed as a legal basis
for the processing of data can be collected at the same time (for example by checking a box
clearly indicating what the data subject is consenting to).

151.

It has to be noted that, depending on the conditions of the processing (nature of the data
controller, etc.), another legal basis can be lawfully chosen as long as it does not lower the
additional  protection  provided  by  art.  5(3)  ePrivacy  directive (see  paragraph  15). If  the
processing is based on another legal basis such as the performance of a task carried out in
the public interest (art. 6(1)(e) GDPR), the EDPB recommends that the data subjects are
included in the study on a voluntary basis.

3.3.2 Data collected

152. The  data  controller  shall  only  collect  personal  data  that  are  strictly  necessary  for  the

processing.

Adopted

33

153. There are two types of data to be considered:

 data relating to participants and vehicles ;

 technical data from vehicles (instantaneous speed, etc.).
154. Scientific  research  linked  to  accidentology  justifies  the  collection  of  the  instantaneous
speed, including by legal persons who do not administer a public service in the strict sense.

155.

Indeed,  as  noted  above,  the  EDPB  considers  that  instantaneous  speed  collected  in  the
context of an accidentology study is not offence-related data by destination (i.e., it is not
being collected for the purpose of investigating or prosecuting an offence), which justifies
its collection by legal persons who do not administer a public service in the strict sense.

3.3.3 Retention period

156.

It  is  important  to  distinguish  between  two  types  of  data.  First,  the  data  relating  to
participants and vehicles can be retained for the duration of the study. Second, the technical
data from vehicles should be retained for as short as possible for the purpose. In this regard,
five years from the end date of the study appears to be a reasonable period. At the end of
that period, the data shall be deleted or anonymised.

3.3.4 Information and rights of data subjects

157. Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed according to art.
13 GDPR, in a transparent and understandable way. In particular, in the case of collecting
instantaneous  speed,  the  data  subjects should be  specifically  informed  of  the  data
collection.  Since  the  data  processing  is  based  on  consent,  the  data  subject  must  be
specifically informed of the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without
affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal. Moreover,
because the data collected in this context are provided by the data subject (through specific
forms  or  through  his  or her  activity)  and  processed  on  the  basis of art. 6(1)(a) GDPR
(consent), the data subject is entitled to exercise his or her right to data portability. As
emphasized in the guidelines on the right to data portability, the EDPB strongly recommends
“that data controllers clearly explain the difference between the types of data that a data
subject can receive through the rights of subject access and data portability”. Consequently,
the data controller should provide an easy way to withdraw his consent, freely and at any
time, as well as develop tools to be able to answer data portability requests.

158. That  information  can  be  given upon  signing  the  form  to  agree  to  take  part  in  the

accidentology study.

3.3.5 Recipient

159.

In principle, only the data controller and the data processor have access to the data.

3.3.6 Security

160. As noted above, the security measures put in place shall be adapted to the level of data
sensitivity.  For  instance,  if  instantaneous  speed  (or  any  other  data  related  to  criminal
convictions and offences) is collected as part of the accidentology study, the EDPB strongly
recommends putting in place strong security measures, such as:

 implementing  pseudonymisation  measures  (e.g.,  secret-key  hashing  of  data  like  the

surname/first name of the data subject and the serial number);

Adopted

34

 storing data relating to instantaneous speed and to location in separate databases (e.g., using

a state-of-the-art encryption mechanism with distinct keys and approval mechanisms);

 and/or deleting location data as soon as the reference event or sequence is qualified (e.g., the
type of road, day/night), and the storage of directly-identifying data in a separate database
that can only be accessed by a small number of people.

3.4 Tackle auto theft

161. Data subjects may wish, in the case of theft, to attempt to find their vehicle using location.
Using  location  data  is  limited  to  the  strict  needs  of  the  investigation  and  to  the  case
assessment by the competent legal authorities.

3.4.1 Legal basis

162. When the data is collected through a publicly available electronic communication service,

art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy directive applies.

163. Because this is an information society service, art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy directive does not
require consent for gaining access to information that is already stored in the vehicle when
such a service is explicitly requested by the subscriber.

164. Regarding the processing of personal data, the legal basis for processing the location data
will be the consent of the vehicle’s owner, or, if applicable, the performance of a contract
(only for data necessary for the performance of the contract to which the vehicle’s owner is
party).

165. Consent shall be an expression of the free, specific, and informed will of the person whose
data are being processed (e.g. ticking a box that is not pre-ticked, or configuring the on-
board computer to activate a function in the vehicle). Freedom to give consent involves the
option of withdrawing consent at any time, of which the data subject should be expressly
informed.  Withdrawal  of  consent  shall  lead  to  the  processing  being  stopped.  The  data
should then be deleted from the active database, anonymised, or archived.

3.4.2 Data collected

166. Location data can only be transmitted as of the declaration of theft, and cannot be collected

continuously the rest of the time.

3.4.3 Retention period

167. Location data can only be retained for the period during which the case is assessed by the
competent legal authorities, or until the end of a procedure to dispel doubt that does not
end with confirmation of the theft of the vehicle.

3.4.4 Information of the data subjects

168. Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject should be informed according to
art. 13 GDPR,  in  a  transparent  and  understandable  way.  More  specifically,  the  EDPB
recommends that the data controller emphasizes that there is no constant tracking of the
vehicle and that location data can only be collected and transmitted as of the declaration of
theft. Moreover, the controller must provide the data subject with information relating to
the  fact  that  only  approved  officers  of  the  remote-surveillance  platform  and legally
approved authorities have access to the data.

169. Regarding the rights of the data subjects, when the data processing is based on consent, the
data  subject should be  specifically  informed  of  the  existence  of  the  right  to  withdraw

Adopted

35

consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before
its  withdrawal.  Besides,  when  the  data  collected  in  this  context  are  provided  by  them
(through  specific  forms  or  through  his  or  her  activity)  and  processed  on  the  basis  of
art. 6(1)(a) (consent) or art. 6(1)(b) GDPR (performance of a contract), the data subject is
entitled to exercise his or her right to data portability. As emphasized in the guidelines on
the right to data portability, the EDPB strongly recommends “that data controllers clearly
explain the difference between the types of data that a data subject can receive through the
rights of subject access and data portability”.

170. Consequently, the data controller should provide an easy way to withdraw his consent (only
when consent is the legal basis), freely and at any time, as well as develop tools to be able
to answer data portability requests.

171. The information can be provided when the contract is signed.

3.4.5 Recipients

172.

In the event of a theft declaration, location data can be passed on the (i) approved officers
of the remote-surveillance platform, and (ii) to the legally approved authorities.

3.4.6 Security

173. General recommendations apply. See section 2.7

Adopted

36

