 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

press release
      

Brussels, 24/05/2023

Press Office of the Federal Commissioner
for privacy and
the freedom of information

  +49 (0)228-997799-5102
  pressestelle@bfdi.bund.de

 
Responsible: Dirk Hensel
Editor: Christof Stein

5 years GDPR - General Data Protection Regulation as a benchmark in the
digital landscape
 
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI).
Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection (BayLfD) and the European
Data Protection Officers (EDPS) held a joint meeting on May 23 in Brussels
Discussion event on the fifth anniversary of the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) organized.
The data protection officers went together with high-ranking representatives
the legislative institutions of the EU and the European Court of Justice
Interim assessment of the practical application of the GDPR.
BayLfD Professor Dr. Thomas Petri: “The data subject rights of the GDPR have proven their worth since
five years. They must continue to show their full potential in the future. Because the European Union
in its statement on digital rights and principles for the digital decade
Puts people at the center of digital change and also wants their fundamental rights
fully respect in this context.”
BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber emphasizes the challenges of further legislation:
“The EU's proposals under the EU data strategy are all important. Out of
From a fundamental rights and data protection point of view, it is crucial that the EU
Legislators now find the right balance between the interests of the public
Science and the economy and the interests of the individual in the protection of
Privacy. This is particularly relevant in the area of sensitive health data.”
All speakers emphasized the milestone character of the GDPR
is internationally recognized as the "gold standard" of data protection legislation. There was agreement
that GDPR enforcement has been good for the past five years
worked, but further steps towards broad and effective enforcement
are necessary. That is why those of EU Justice Commissioner Reynders found support
presented plans for an EU regulation to harmonize the cross-border
Cases. The relationship between the GDPR and the proposed legislation was also discussed
as part of the EU digital strategy, in particular the proposal for a regulation on

 
1
 



The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

Artificial Intelligence (AI-Act) and the proposal for a European
Health Data Room (EHDS). The question of whether this is a shift in meaning
of data protection from a personal approach to a market-oriented one
approach, was viewed differently.
 

 
 
2
 

press release

