1/13



Procedure No.: PS/00283/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 01/21/2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against IRRIGATION COMMUNITY "EL PÓSITO" with NIF G23039548 (hereinafter, the
claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are that it has published in the Bulletin
Official of the Province of Jaén (BOPJ) of ***DATE.1 an edict under the literal
"debt communication" followed by the name and surnames in which your name and
their surnames associated with the debt and the concept "spill", agreed at the Board of
06/29/2019.

Provide a copy of the BOPJ in the "unofficial announcements" section, indicating that against
said administrative act in accordance with the provisions of the revised text of the law
of waters, it is possible to appeal to the Guadalquivir Hydrographic Confederation.
As quantity, ***AMOUNT.1 is indicated.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents,
the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the transfer to the
claimed on 3/12/2020, showing the electronic delivery as "automatic rejection" to the
within ten days according to paragraph 2 of article 43 of Law 39/2015, of
1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in what
successively, LPACAP).

The shipment is reiterated on 06/15/2020, exceptionally by postal mail.

The claimed on 08/03/2020 states that the notification in the BOPJ comes
determined before the "resistant attitude of the now claimant, who does not accept the
notifications by burofax for the payment of the spills that correspond to you as
commoner of our Community, finding himself in a situation of historical non-payment,
accumulating numerous debts. In compliance with the provisions of Law 39/2015, and
after trying to do it via burofax, he went to the Official Gazette of the Province, including the
complete administrative act, with standing of appeal. We understand that we are facing
the assumption established in the first section of the Seventh Additional Provision of the
Law on Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights”. “However, if
part of the Organism to which I am addressing was informed that the proceeding would have been
the provisions of the second paragraph, we will undoubtedly proceed in such a way in the future,
Although we understand that we are involved in the provisions of the first paragraph,
when notifying the administrative act in its entirety”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

The respondent states that "attached documentation accrediting the
refusal of the claimant to accept burofax notifications of the amount claimed”.
In this case, it is one dated 10/19/2017 which, although it does not indicate its content,
is accompanied by the letter of 10/16/2017 requiring the payment of ***AMOUNT.2 “advance
of energy 2017” plus ***AMOUNT.3 (euro per olive tree 2017). There are also other
written request for payment with dates for example 09/16 to 10/16/2017 in which
concept figure “euro per olive tree 2017” broken down into vega olive trees and rain-fed olive trees. The
result of the shipment that appears on the certificate is “not delivered. Left notice” and another
with "not delivered, surplus".

There is another burofax dated 09/10/2019, with the same result dated 09/10/2019, with
written to the claimant of "attached accompanies receipt of expenses according to agreed spill
in the general meeting of the community held on 1/06 of the currents”. Likewise,
provides other burofaxes with the same results from other years, 2015, and a letter of
order of urgency of the President of the claimed entity of 2015.

THIRD: On 9/3/2020, the claim is admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 09/24/2020, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

“ FIRST: START A PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE for the COMMUNITY OF
IRRGATORS "EL PÓSITO", with NIF G23039548, for the presumed infraction of the
article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 58.2.b) and 83.5.a) of the RGPD.”
“ FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of the LPACAP, the sanction
that could correspond would be a warning.”

In front of the electronic notification, the result of "expired" was produced, by not accessing
its content, after the term granted. Against the agreement were not registered
allegations.

FIFTH: The proposed resolution issued by the instructor contains the following tenor:

"That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is sanctioned with
warning to the IRRIGATION COMMUNITY "EL PÓSITO", with NIF G23039548, for
an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.5 a) of the
GDPR.”

There was a first shipment via post to AVDA. OF ANDALUCIA 15, PEAL OF
BECERRO, Jaén of the proposal signed on 04/14/2021, with the result returned to
origin, 04-22-2021 due to "wrong address".

On 05/07/2020, the proposal was sent again by electronic notification, without
that the claimed party access its content, and at the same time, through postal mail
to the same referred address, as the result “unknown”.

It should be mentioned that the physical address is the one that the entity recorded as
address in your response to the transfer of the claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

PROVEN FACTS

The defendant published in the Official Gazette of the Province of Jaén on ***DATE.1
1)
an edict under the literal "debt communication" followed by the name and surnames of the
claimant, associated with the debt ***AMOUNT.1, which it maintains with the Community and the
concept "spill", agreed at the meeting of 06/29/2019, indicating that in the face of said
administrative act in accordance with the provisions of the consolidated text of the law of
waters, it is possible to appeal to the Guadalquivir Hydrographic Confederation.

two)

The defendant, before publishing said data, handled documents of
request for payment to the claimant and burofaxes with unsuccessful delivery attempts,
for not being withdrawn by the claimant during the years 2017 or 2019. In the concepts of
the debts demanded at that time, included "energy advance 2017" or "euro per olive tree
2017” broken down into vega olive trees and dry land olive trees. It is unknown if these amounts
bear some relation to that of the spill that is exposed in the Bulletin, being
different figures.

3)

The respondent stated that she published the notification of the administrative act by the

previous unsuccessful requests made to the debtor community member.

4)

The respondent responded in the processing of the transfer of claim, consigning
as address Avenida de Andalucía 15, Peal de Becerro, Jaén. The letter of transfer,
delivered via post and it was addressed to the aforementioned address, being picked up on 06/26/2020. A
the claimed party has been sent the notification of the proposed resolution on one occasion
electronically and again by post to the aforementioned address, without having accessed
in the first case, and without being delivered by post

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The Irrigation Communities limit their actions to the distribution of water and
administration of its powers in police matters on the concessional resource,
under the tutelage of the basin organizations, the Hydrographic Confederations. the shelter
of its operation can be found in articles 81 to 91 of the Consolidated Text
of the Water Law (RD Leg. 1/2001 of 20/07) and articles 198 to 231 of the Regulations of the
Hydraulic Public Domain (RD 849/1986, of 11/04), as well as in the statutes and
Ordinances drawn up by the community itself and approved by the
basin.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

These Communities are public law entities of a corporate nature, not
territorial and associative-based, subject to the tutelage of the Basin Organizations or
Hydrographic Confederations.

The jurisprudence has examined its legal nature, for example in the judgment of the
Supreme Court, Third Chamber, Contentious-Administrative, Section 5, of
02/1/2011, Rec. 5670/2006, which in its fourth legal foundation indicates:

"The examination of the legal nature of the Irrigation Communities must start
of article 82 of the current Water Law that by regulating the nature and legal regime
co of user communities --- genre that the Community class is a part of
Regantes, article 81.1 --- indicates that they have the character of corporations of rights
public cho, attached to the Basin Organization, which will ensure compliance with its
statutes or ordinances and for the good order of the use, and that they will act in accordance
me to the procedures established in this Law, in its regulations and in its
statutes and ordinances, in accordance with the provisions of Law 30/1992, of 26
November, on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the Procedure
Common Administrative, adding article 81 that the statutes or ordinances, which re-
will be written and approved by the users themselves, and must be submitted for approval
administration, to the River Basin Agency, will regulate the organization of the communities
of users, as well as the exploitation in regime of internal autonomy of the hy-
draulics inherent to the use.
Being the primary public function of the Irrigation Communities to manage and distribute
promote among its members the collective use of granted public waters,
in the exercise of such function they are invested with a series of powers, of which it is possible
stand out:
1) The organizational and normative power, by means of such Statutes and Ordinances,
taking into account the minimum organizational contents related to equity in order to contribute
cover expenses, the guarantee of the political rights of its members and the func-
democratic process of its members (article 82.2);
2) The enforceability of their acts, in the terms provided in Law 30/1992 (article
84.5);
3) The use of the substitutive execution for acts that impose on the users a
obligation to act of a non-personal nature (article 83.1);
4) The use of the enforcement procedure for the collection of their liquid debts, accrued
for maintenance, cleaning and improvement expenses and for the administration and distribution
distribution of the waters, due to subsidiary execution or debts from multiple
fees and indemnities imposed by the Irrigation Courts or Juries (article 83.1. and
4);
5) The power to settle factual disputes that arise between users,
as well as to impose fines for the infractions foreseen in the Ordinances and indemnity.
rations (article 84.6); Y,
6) The character of beneficiaries of the forced expropriation and the imposition of easements-
men (article 83.2).
Well then, the indicated powers justify that the Water Law submits its exercise to
guardianship by the Basin Organization, which will exercise it in two ways:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

1) Through the approval of its Statutes and Ordinances and their modifications, with the
except that you cannot deny the approval of the statutes and ordinances, nor introduce
produce variants in them, without prior opinion of the Council of State (article 81.1); Y,
2) Through the appeal against Agreements of the General Meeting and the Board of Governors
good.
Its nature as a Public Law Corporation has also been reviewed by the Court.
Constitutional Law in its STC 227/1988, declaring in its Foundation of Law 24
that "The user communities regulated by the Law are, as expressly stated
in art. 74.1 of the same, Public Law Corporations, attached to the Agency
of the basin (or to the corresponding Autonomous Hydraulic Administration, in accordance with
the fourth additional provision), so that the State is competent to regulate the ba-
ses of its legal regime "In the case of Public Law Corporations, as it is
the case of communities of users of public waters, whose purpose is none other than
the autonomous management of the hydraulic assets necessary for the common uses
classes of the same, in regime of participation by the interested parties".
However, together with this public function, in the Irrigation Communities there is no
ignore the existence of a purely private interest, of a professional nature, which
was present in its historical origins, as groups of farmers for the
self-management and distribution of irrigation water in an efficient, orderly and equitable way,
character that survives today, despite the fact that the historical evolution of these groups
tions has been characterized by a tendency to accentuate their public functions, even
that without denaturing or eliminating its character as a private group to satisfy
protect the interests of the community members.
Therefore, it can be concluded that the Irrigation Communities are part of the denomination
Corporate Administration, characterized by being entities endowed with legal personality
dicas those to whom the Law attributes the management of public purposes, which makes them Administrators.
Public administrations, but at the same time that they satisfy the private interests of their
members, being therefore
    mixed public-private entity, as well as other types of
associative entities provided for in our legal system, such as the Professional Associations
them, the Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Navigation and the extinct Chambers of the
Urban Property.
The Consolidated Text of the Water Law establishes in article 83.1 the powers to
execute by themselves and at the user's expense the unfulfilled agreements that impose
an obligation to do, so that the cost of the subsidiary performance will be payable
through administrative enforcement.

    nature
 

 

In addition, article 83.4 provides that "Debts to the user community for expenses
of conservation, cleaning or improvements, as well as any other motivated by the administration.
tion and distribution of the waters, will tax the farm or industry in whose favor they were carried out,
being able the community of users to demand its amount by the administrative route of urgency,
and prohibit the use of water until they are satisfied, even when the farm or human industry
biese changed owner. The same criterion will be followed when the debt comes from
fines and indemnities imposed by the irrigation courts or juries".

On the other hand, their acts are enforceable without prejudice to their challenge on appeal.
before the basin organization; enjoy sanctioning power to which must be added
that by legal mandate and with autonomy, exercise the functions of police, distribution and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

administration of the waters that have been granted by the Administration (article 199.2
of the Hydraulic Public Domain Regulation).

The judgment of the Supreme Court, First Chamber, Civil, of 02/14/1994 indicates in its
second legal foundation indicates:

“The configuration of the Irrigation Community as public does not imply that it is identified
that totally with the territorial or superior public administrations, but that as
it is only assimilated with them, given the possibility of exercising administrative powers by
specific legal delegation or attribution, as is also deduced from the doctrine of
Constitutional Court referred to above. And this because, in no case, it is necessary to ignore
the private base substratum that integrates these sectoral Corporations. Hence the
administrative powers or faculties are exercised by delegation or specific attribution.
Thus, the "self-management" technique is used in these Corporations by conferring
powers that normally correspond to state entities.
Its private substratum is the one that has posed the greatest problems, since it is clear
ro that these Corporations have a public personification, however and due to
of their origin and configuration, they also assert the private interests of the members.
In reality, their formation as Public Administrations, exclusively comes from-
terminated to the extent that they are holders of public functions granted by law or
delegated by the Administration. In this way, the Irrigation Communities are
assigns the organization of the exploitation of irrigation, jurisdictional powers
through the Irrigation and Police Juries of the water shifts, canals and other ins-
collective felling.
The question takes definitive concreteness, having to decide if the Community of cars
has acted or exercised its own administrative functions, in the limited aspects attributed
Buid by Law or delegation; only in this case the actions of the Corporations
will qualify as administrative.
It is necessary to define the specific legal regime that regulates relations between the Community
ity and its members.”
It is obligatory to bring up the report of the AEPD 156/2003 that is published in the
web, in which it is pointed out about "The consultation raises the public or private nature of
the files are the responsibility of the Irrigation Community”

In relation to this issue, it should be noted that, although the LOPD defines in its article
side the system of files of public and private ownership, does not establish a concept
thereof. For this reason, the delimitation must be based on the criteria that determine
they undermine the legal-public or legal-private nature of the person responsible for the file.
This conclusion is reached taking into account the peculiarities established for the
of publicly owned files, since they could only be
constituted in the event that they are developed as a consequence of the exercise of a
administrative jurisdiction, as can be deduced from article 21.1 of the LOPD, which allows
It allows the transfer between Public Administrations when it is founded in the exercise
of the same competencies. In this same sense, article 20 of the Law requires that
the files are subject to the guardianship of an Administration with the power to
dictate the corresponding General provision for the creation of the file.
Therefore, it is considered that the delimitation of the regime applicable to ownership files
public and private authority must be based on a double criterion: on the one hand, the person responsible
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

of the file must be a Public Administration and another, in the cases that could
would pose greater complexity, it would be necessary for the file to be created as con-
sequence of the exercise of public powers.
As indicated in the query, article 82.1 of the Consolidated Text of the Law on
Waters, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001, of June 20, states that the Co-
Irrigation communities "have the character of public law corporations, attached to
to the Basin Agency, which will ensure compliance with its statutes or ordinances.
zas and for the good order of use. They will act in accordance with the procedures
established in this Law, in its regulations and in its statutes and ordinances,
in accordance with the provisions of Law 30/1992, of November 26, on the Legal Regime of
Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure".
That said, the delimitation of the legal nature of the so-called corporations of
public law has been an issue widely debated by the administrative doctrine
view, not having reached at the present time an unequivocal thesis on this
particular.
However, the jurisprudence of our Supreme Court has repeatedly analyzed
this issue in numerous judgments, the citation of which should be recalled at this time.
In particular, they deserve special attention, in terms of the legal-public or legal nature.
private doctor of the irrigation communities, two Judgments of the Third Chamber of the Tri-
Supreme Court of May 3, 1999 (RJ 3599 and 3600), in which it is stated that:
"The Irrigation Communities do not constitute, despite their name, communities
assets and rights lacking legal personality, nor civil societies, by
as defined by arts. 392 and 1665 of the Civil Code (...). Before, on the contrary, at the
ner User Communities, according to art.74. 1 of the current Water Law, «the
character of Public Law Corporations, attached to the Basin Organization, which oversees
will be responsible for the fulfillment of its Statutes or Ordinances and for the good order of the
chamiento", and having been and being, in any temporary circumstance and as recognized
the First Chamber of this Court in Judgment of December 10, 1990, legal entities
legal-public association-based and, generally, mandatory constitution and belonging
cia necessary, as deduced from the arts. 228 and following of the Law of 13 of
June 1879 and results from arts. 73 and following of the current one, supervised by the Administration
and with independent legal personality, it is clear that, if this personality, which
is unique, it cannot be divided into a personality of public law when they act
administrative powers and another of private law when it does so in the field of re-
juridical relations that deserve this qualification".
However, what is indicated in the aforementioned Judgment, which could help to consider that
the files of the irrigation communities would in any case have the nature of fi-
files of public ownership, must be complemented with the doctrine emanating from the
Supreme Court, referring to the legal-public or legal-private nature of the activities
data developed by them.
In this sense, the Judgment of the First Chamber of the High Court, of October 26,
2000 (RJ 8552) states that:
"the jurisprudence in sentences, of this Chamber of December 10, 1990 and June 20
of 2000 and of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber Second Section of May 3
of 1999, recognizing the nature of Public Law Corporations of the Community
Irrigators, defines it as legal-public entities with an associative base, tutelage-
given by the Administration and with independent legal personality, understanding that in
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

relation to this character nor can its unique personality be divided into one of Law
when acting administrative powers, and another of private law when
does in the area that deserves this qualification, but nevertheless this area of action
tion in different fields of the right of the Irrigation Community, is decisive
to reside the jurisdictional scope, so that (...) the competent jurisdiction in
his case is determined by the nature of the acts being prosecuted, thus
the Contentious-Administrative jurisdiction is responsible for knowing the acts of these
Public Law Corporations adopted in the exercise of public functions, co-
responding to this civil jurisdiction the knowledge of the legal relations born
in the field of private law
From the jurisprudence that has just been reproduced, it follows that, without prejudice to the na-
public legal nature of public law corporations, their activity can reach
be put into effect in the field of public legal relations, in which case, the acts of the
Corporation will be subject to administrative law, having the condition
authentic administrative acts, dictated in the exercise of administrative powers
or, on the contrary, said activity may be carried out in the field of legal relations.
co-private, so that their actions lack the power of empires, not holding the
Corporation any differential feature of the counterparty, and being subject to the control of
civil or social jurisdiction.
Taking into account what has just been indicated and the opinion repeatedly expressed
by this Data Protection Agency regarding the public or private nature of
other public law corporations, such as professional associations or chambers
commerce, industry and navigation, it must be concluded that the files of the cor-
portions of irrigators will be considered public or private depending on
of the public or private nature of the purposes that justifies the realization of the co-
corresponding treatment.
In this way, they will be publicly owned, and will have to be created and regulated by the
general provision referred to in article 20 of the Organic Law
15/1999 the files of the Irrigation Community that had been created for the
exercise by the same of powers of public law, such as those related to
the agreements referred to in article 84.5 of the Water Law or those related
with the decisions of the juries, referred to in article 84.6, as well as the related
tioned with the levies that the community can claim by way of urgency, to the
referred to in article 83.1 of the Water Law.
However, those files linked to
Community activities that do not involve the exercise of powers of public law
public, such as, for example, those referring to their personnel, which were not found
will be linked to the Community by a statutory relationship, but by a relationship above
fully involved in labor law.
In the case presented, the elaboration of a census of the members of the community
will perform for the exercise of the powers of public law attributed to it by
the Water Law, given that article 81.1 of the Law imposes the duty on all the
users to become a community of irrigators, for which it is essential to know
determine who has such a condition.
In this way, it should be considered that the file to which the query expressly refers
will have the character of a file of public ownership.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

III

The Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD) in its seventh additional provision:
“Identification of interested parties in notifications through advertisements and
publications of administrative acts” states:

"1. When it is necessary to publish an administrative act containing
personal data of the affected party, they will be identified by their name and surnames,
adding four random numerical figures of the national identity document,
foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document. When the
publication refers to a plurality of affected parties, these random figures must
alternate.

When it comes to notification through advertisements, particularly in the
assumptions referred to in article 44 of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
affected exclusively by means of the complete number of your national identification document.
identity, foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document.

The LPCAP distinguishes notification, publication, articles 44 and 45. The first deals with:
“When those interested in a procedure are unknown, the place of the procedure is ignored.
notification or, if this was attempted, the notification could not have been made, it will be
by means of an announcement published in the «Official State Gazette», while the
Article 45 refers to the fact that "Administrative acts will be published when
so established by the regulations governing each procedure or when advised
reasons of public interest appreciated by the competent body”, and establishes that “in
In any case, they will be published, with notification effects” in the cases indicated.
(indeterminate plurality of people, selective procedure), which are not the ones
correspond to this assumption.

For notification and publication, the LPCAP also provides for article 46, which indicates:
Indication of notifications and publications

"If the competent body appreciates that the notification through announcements or the
publication of an act injures rights or legitimate interests, it will be limited to publishing in the
Official newspaper that corresponds a brief indication of the content of the act and the place
where the interested parties may appear, within the period established, to
knowledge of the full content of the aforementioned act and proof of such
knowledge."

In the notification carried out in the Bulletin, the claimant's data was contained with
the addition that it was a debt from an approved spill, which verifies the
commission of the indicated infraction.

IV

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the treatment to be considered lawful.
processing of personal data, and although there may be authorization for the treatment of personal data,
data of the community member with that associate status, this will always be within the framework
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

appropriate and proper, not being pertinent, nor appropriate the sending to an official newspaper of
the complete data that identifies it together with the summary of the debt and its condition of
debtor.
Although the partners have as a common base the application of the Statutes, and the
data in order to manage their relationship, the rest of the rules must be respected
in force. Article 5.1 c) of the RGPD points out:

"1. The personal data will be:

“c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are treated;”

The publication of the resolution in question in an official gazette, posted on the Internet and
is accessible through the newsletter page, constitutes an automated processing of
personal data, which is in the scope of application of the RGPD.
Excessively exposing the claimant's identifying data and information to him
associated, it is considered that the claimed in the treatment carried out has infringed
said principle. To this must be added that the condition is preached in public that for the
Community deserves its associate as a debtor, disclosing to third parties a piece of information
associated with information that undermines their rights, violating confidentiality
of the matter in relation to the person of the affected party, a circumstance that would not have been
produced from having adjusted to the provisions of article 5.1.c) in accordance with the
LPCAP that allow the way of publication as notification with requirements. being able
use the publication as an instrument or procedure to advance in the collection of the
spills, its notification does not require that the claimant be classified as a debtor who
affects your privacy when what is intended with the publication is that the
communication is taken for granted in an official and reliable manner.

On the other hand, the origin of the act that is published would be of interest, in order to distinguish the
legal regime applicable to the Community in question. If the source of the spill comes
of the relationship of the claimant as a user of the Irrigation Community in matters
referring to the pure competence of a public nature of the Community, could be its
data exposed as a means of notification, respecting the principles of the RGPD, one of the
which is referred to in article 5.1.c) mentioned. Examples of this could be
actions of the Community and its community members as a concessionaire and the distribution of water
among them, conceived as use, administration and distribution among its
members of collective uses of public waters.

If the act that was notified is due to relationships that as a user have more to do with
the private interests of the members that make up the Community: uses
as or in a private association regime such as conditioning of
land, crops, etc., unrelated to the use of water as a good of
public domain, could be classified as private actions that result in the interest
of the community members, and the notification of those debts generated with origin in this type of
actions, would not enjoy the possibility of notifying through the Official Gazette, being its
common civil law regime.

It would therefore be about the applicability of public prerogatives or not depending on the root
from which the Community-communer relationship proceeds, which supposes the requirement of said
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

spills and the consequent faculty for its publication. On the other hand, it pours out
reference to extraordinary expenses that are split, and in any case a
non-public medium such as an official bulletin

Accepting that the origin is a consequence of the public powers of the
claimed, it is estimated that article 5.1.c) of the RGPD is violated due to the circumstances
marked.

This infraction is found in article 83.5 of the RGPD that indicates:

v

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:

b) send a warning to all controllers or processors when
treatment operations have infringed the provisions of these Regulations.
to;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a specified manner and within a specified time.

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to fine entities
public, as indicated in article 77.1. g) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDDGG: “1. The
regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

“g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are

related to the exercise of powers of public law.”

"two. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law,
the competent data protection authority will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any."

"4. The resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

As a conclusion, the Irrigation Communities are Public Law Corporations,
assigned to the River Basin Organization (or to the corresponding regional hydraulic administration)
pending) being entities endowed with legal personality to which the Law confers
with the purpose of proceeding to the collective self-administration of the uses of
waters that are granted to them, for public purposes and hence they are endowed with powers ad-
administrative, which makes them Public Administrations. However, also
At the same time, they satisfy the private interests of their members, thus being of a mixed nature.
public-private. As communities of public water users, they have as a fi-
purpose, the autonomous management of the hydraulic assets necessary for the
collective actions of the same, in a regime of participation by the interested parties,
being the professional private interest the private grouping to satisfy the interests
ses of the commoners.
In this case, it is considered that the action object of the complaint violates the
article 5.1. c) of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE "EL PÓSITO" IRRIGATION COMMUNITY, with NIF
G23039548, for an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, as indicated in article
83.5 a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the IRRIGATION COMMUNITY "EL
POSITION".

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1
October. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the
effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have
knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this resolution, I would
The precautionary suspension has ended.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

