1/20

 File No.: EXP202206486

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 29, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against XASTRE DO PETO,
S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the transcribed Agreement:

<<
Procedure No.: PS/00310/2021 (EXP202206486)

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the entity, XASTRE DO PETO, S.L. with CIF.: B70353677, (hereinafter "the part
claimed"), based on the document presented by D. A.A.A., for the alleged violation
of the data protection regulations: Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the Parliament
European Union and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Movement of
these Data (GDPR) and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of
Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), and attending to
the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 09/04/21, a document submitted by
the complaining party, in which it indicated, among other things, that in the restaurant XASTRE DO
PETO, they left him, last 08/27/21, a form to fill out for questions
health authorities, without further information and in which they also indicated the possibility of
send you commercial communications

Along with the previous letter, the following documentation is provided:

-

Photograph of a form to include the name, surname, ID, telephone number and
Signature. Said form has the title: "ORDER of April 14, 2021 by
which modifies the Order of February 25, 2021 establishing
the necessary actions for the implementation of the Hospitality Plan
of the Autonomous Community of Galicia (DOG No. 69-Bis):

SECOND: On 09/30/21, this Agency transferred the claim
to the claimed party to respond to it, in accordance with the
stipulated in article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD Law.

THIRD: On 11/09/21, the claimed entity presents in this Agency
written response to the request made, in which, among others, it is indicated:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/20

Regarding the decision adopted regarding this claim, the
The company has reviewed the action protocols implemented as a result of the
health regulations of the Xunta de Galicia and states the following:

1. On 04/15/2021, the XUNTA DE GALICIA published the "ORDER of 14
April 2021 by which the Order of February 25, 2021 by the
establishing the necessary actions for the implementation of the
Safe hospitality plan of the Autonomous Community of Galicia.

2. Among other obligations for hospitality establishments in the
article Seventh bis, in section 2, it is indicated literally: "With the objective
To facilitate contact tracing in case of positive cases of COVID-19, it is
will keep a record of the clients of the dinner service that includes name and
surnames, ID and telephone number; having the person responsible for
establishing the obligation to guard the same for at least one
month after the event, with contact information available to
health authorities and complying with the data protection regulations of
personal character". A copy of the Doga is attached.

3. It has been verified that the signage provided for the plan of
Safe Hospitality of the Xunta de Galicia, which is attached to the present
written. Said posters referred to the applicable legislation and the
compliance with the regulations of the Xunta de Galicia in health matters.

4. In said regulations, it is indicated that the establishment is obliged to keep
contact information for at least one month. The protocol followed in
In this case, it is reserved in an envelope with the date of the corresponding day, the
customer forms, to have available to the administration,
for a period of 5 weeks, and if no requirement of the
health authorities, destroy said information.

5. The data has not been processed by computer and has only been saved
to make available to the health authorities, being subsequently
destroyed.

6. The company has established a specific protocol in its manual of
data protection referred to the issue of reservations, motivated precisely by
the new obligations arising in terms of information to the adm.
public.

7. Customers have been duly informed, both through the
informative signs as at the time of delivery of the data sheet,
indicating the rights that assist them in accordance with current legislation
and warning them that the data is requested by imposition of the administration and
that in any case, they can cancel the reservation without cost, in case they do not
wish to cover them, since the premises comply with the regulations
imposed to avoid being penalized by the administration.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/20

8. The data controller has not received any claim or
requirement in relation to the rights that the client has of deletion,
opposition, etc., so we do not understand what is the object of the claim to
the Data Protection Agency, when the client, as is clear from
his writing, he signed the consent, he does not claim for having received any
commercial communication, but by the fact that he was provided with a "sheet, on which
that she was asked to include her personal data and that of the diners that she
accompanied, for health reasons related to COVID 19, without
is provided for in no standard, something completely uncertain, as can be
be checked against the attached legislation.

9. Because the AEPD has not identified the claimant, we cannot send
the response provided to the claimant in the event of exercise of the
rights, regulated in article 15. The company has had only one
incidence in this sense with a client not knowing if this is the one who
make the claim.

For all these reasons, understanding that it could be the case that the claimant,
came from another autonomous community where this rule was not in
force, as it is a regional regulation, feels violated by having to
meet the data requirement, but, the local, has adhered exclusively
compliance with current legislation, which is why it is requested that
Prior to the appropriate procedures, this open file is resolved, with
he
same".

definitive

archive

of the

 

 

 

 

FOURTH: On 11/18/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data, an agreement is issued to admit the processing of the claim
presented by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, to the
assess possible rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field of
the powers of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FIFTH: On 01/19/22, this Agency made a request for
information to the Ministry of Health of the XUNTA de GALICIA, by virtue of the
powers of investigation granted to control authorities in article 58.1 of the
GDPR and in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Section
second, of the LOPDGDD.

SIXTH: On 02/21/22, the Ministry of Health of the XUNTA de GALICIA,
sends this Agency a written response, in which, among other things, it indicates the
following:

1. Evolution of regional regulations in relation to the obligation to
customer registration in public access establishments with indication of
the dates on which it has been found to be in force at all times until the
present. Provide a copy of the regulations you refer to.

A. The first registration obligation was created based on what was included in the ORDER
of April 14, 2021, which modifies the Order of February 25,
2021 by which the necessary actions are established for the implementation
March of the Safe Hospitality Plan of the Autonomous Community of Galicia,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/20

I. Which indicated that a record of clients will be kept for the service of
dinners.

The order was modified by successive orders that in some cases included
the need to keep a record of clients or attendees to certain
places, activities or events. They are listed below: ORDER of 25
June 2021 establishing specific prevention measures
as a consequence of the evolution of the epidemiological situation derived from
COVID-19 in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. DOG Order No. 120-
Bis of 2021/6/25 - Xunta de Galicia

I. Which indicated that a record of clients will be kept for:

to. Celebration of sports competitions with the public, activities in cinemas,
theaters, auditoriums and similar spaces, as well as in outdoor venues and in
other premises and establishments for public performances and
Recreational activities.

b. Carrying out selection processes by public administrations and
public sector entities.

c. Celebration of sporting events and other non-sporting activities
organizations of an organized nature such as sports camps, camps
sports and other similar activities.

d. Nightlife establishments (under the conditions established
by order of the Ministry of Health that approves the leisure protocol
night)

B. ORDER of July 22, 2021 extending and modifying the Order
of June 25, 2021, establishing prevention measures
as a consequence of the evolution of the epidemiological situation
derived from COVID-19 in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and amended
the Order of July 1, 2021 approving the Protocol for the
reactivation of nightlife in the context of the health crisis caused by
COVID-19

Which indicates nightlife establishments (such as discos, pubs,
cafes-show, nightclubs, as well as concert halls that
carry out their activities in a similar way to the previous ones) must
have a customer registry under the conditions established by
the order of the Ministry of Health that approves the Leisure Protocol
night.

C. ORDER of August 13, 2021 amending the Order of August 25,
June 2021 establishing prevention measures such as
consequence of the evolution of the epidemiological situation derived from the
COVID-19 in the AC of Galicia and the requirement for the exhibition of
documentation for access to certain establishments provided for in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/20

itself and in the Order of July 1, 2021 approving the Protocol
for the reactivation of nightlife in the framework of the health crisis
caused by COVID-19, and is replaced by a transitory regulation.

I. Where the need to keep records of clients or attendees is interrupted.

D. ORDER of August 20, 2021, which extends and modifies the
Order of June 25, 2021 establishing prevention measures
as a consequence of the evolution of the epidemiological situation
derived from COVID-19 in the Autonomous Community of Galicia and remains
the suspension of the requirement of the exhibition of documentation for the
access to certain establishments provided for in the same and in the Order of
July 1, 2021 approving the protocol for the reactivation of the
nightlife in the context of the health crisis caused by COVID-19, and
It is replaced by a transitory and provisional regulation.

DOG Order No. 160-Bis of 2021/8/20 - Xunta de Galicia

I. Where the need to keep a register of clients or
assistants.

E. ORDER of September 14, 2021 approving the new Plan
of safe hospitality in the Autonomous Community of Galicia.

I. Where the registration of clients is included in those hospitality establishments that
who wish to obtain the “two cunchinas” category, which is one of the two levels in
function of the good practices carried out in the establishments and the
application of additional sanitary measures that promote more spaces
safe and offer all possible guarantees. Only the level is required
“una cunchiña”, which excludes said registration.

This possibility of keeping the record in the hospitality premises becomes given
that the Supreme Court endorses the implementation of the COVID passport and its
exhibition in restaurants and leisure establishments in Galicia to the
consider the appeal filed against the Order of August 20
of 2021, of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the Superior Court of
Justice of Galicia, and authorize or ratify the measure that is postulated.

F. ORDER of October 22, 2021 establishing security measures
specific prevention as a consequence of the evolution of the situation
epidemiological derived from COVID-19 in the Autonomous Community of
Galicia and the Order of September 14, 2021 is modified by which
approves the new Safe Hospitality Plan of the Autonomous Community of
Galicia.

I. Which indicates that registration is necessary in the following cases:

to. Carrying out selection processes by public administrations and
public sector entities.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/20

b. Celebration of sporting events and other non-sporting activities
organizations of an organized nature such as sports camps, camps
sports, sports schools and other similar activities.

c. Parties, festivals and other popular events.

G. ORDER of November 25, 2021, which extends and modifies the
Order of October 22, 2021, establishing security measures
specific prevention as a consequence of the evolution of the situation
epidemiological derived from COVID-19 in the Autonomous Community of
Galicia and the Order of September 14, 2021 is modified

I. By which the new Safe Hospitality Plan of the Community is approved
Autonomous of Galicia.

II. This plan does not include at any point the possibility of keeping a record of
customers and indicates the need to show the COVID certificate to
certain activities.

III. It also indicates "(...) it will not be possible to keep personal data or
create files with them; it is established that in no case will
processing operations on personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of authorization of
access or other operation not permitted by current regulations.”

In the following modifications registered to date, this
condition of not keeping records of attendees, clients, participants...

H. ORDER of December 29, 2021 establishing measures
qualified prevention authorities as a result of the evolution of the situation
epidemiological derived from COVID-19 in the Autonomous Community of
Galicia, and the Order of September 14, 2021 is modified by which
approves the new Safe Hospitality Plan of the Autonomous Community of
Galicia.

I. ORDER of January 3, 2022 amending the Order of January 14,
September 2021 approving the new Safe Hospitality Plan
of the Autonomous Community of Galicia.

J. ORDER of January 12, 2022 extending and modifying
various orders establishing qualified measures of
prevention as a result of the evolution of the epidemiological situation
derived from COVID-19 in the Autonomous Community of Galicia

In all cases in which the need to keep a record was established, the
conservation period is one month, after which they should be cancelled.
In addition, taking into account that the processing associated with the customer record
to certain establishments is not valid as of November 26,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/20

2021, date of publication of the ORDER of November 25, 2021 by the
amending the Order of September 14, 2021 approving
the new Safe Hospitality Plan of the Autonomous Community of Galicia;
any treatment or previous registration has ceased to be valid.

2. Purpose of the processing of personal data, legal basis on which
support and motivation.

In all cases, the obligation to keep a record that
include name and surname, ID and telephone number for the purpose of
facilitate contact tracing for positive cases of COVID-19

The preamble to the orders indicates as legal basis:

"The measures adopted in this order have their normative foundation
in article 26 of Law 14/1986, of April 25, general health; in the
articles 27.2 and 54 of Law 33/2011, of October 4, general health
public, and in articles 34 to 38.1 of Law 8/2008, of July 10, on health
from Galicia.

In accordance with article 33 of Law 8/2008, of July 10, the holder of the
Ministry of Health has the status of health authority, so it is
competent to adopt specific preventive measures to make
against the health risk derived from the existing epidemiological situation in the
territory of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, with the urgency that the
protection of public health demands.

By virtue of it, in application of the sixth point of the Agreement of the Consello of the
Xunta de Galicia, of June 12, 2020, on prevention measures
necessary to face the health crisis caused by COVID-19,
once phase III of the Plan for the transition to a new
normality, in its current wording, and in the condition of health authority,
in accordance with article 33 of Law 8/2008, of July 10”

In each of the orders the particular motivation of said order is established.
order, always linked to the evolution of the epidemiological situation and
healthcare in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which made it necessary for
At that time, the regional health authorities adopted certain
preventive measures aimed at containing the spread of infection and
aimed at dealing with the health crisis derived from COVID-19.

It also indicates that "According to the sixth point of the Agreement of the Council of
the Xunta de Galicia, of June 12, 2020, the preventive measures planned
in it they will be subject to continuous monitoring and evaluation in order to guarantee their
adaptation to the evolution of the epidemiological and health situation. With this
purpose may be subject to modification or deletion by agreement of the
Council of the Xunta de Galicia, at the proposal of the competent council in
health matter. It is also established that the owner of the
Ministry competent in matters of health, as the health authority, may
adopt the necessary measures for the application of the agreement and may

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/20

establish, in accordance with the applicable regulations and in view of the
evolution of the health situation, all those additional measures or
complementary to those provided for in the agreement that are necessary.

Included in this authorization are those measures that are
necessary to face the evolution of the health situation in all or
in part of the territory of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and that modify
or, in a timely manner and with a temporarily limited scope, imply the
displacement of the application of the specific measures contained in the
annex to said agreement.”

Lastly, the measures are supported by reports from the General Directorate of
Public Health, in such a way that the adoption of the measures contained in the
orders is determined by the evolution of the epidemiological situation and
Autonomous Community and can adapt to said evolution in
council s determined.

3. Details of the categories of personal data subject to processing and
assessment of compliance with the principle of data minimization.

The data processed has always been the minimum to be able to make the
follow-up of possible contacts of a positive by the authority
health, limiting itself to the essential identification data (name and surname,
DNI) and contact (phone only).

These are the minimum essential data to: a) Contact a person in
in the event that there is an outbreak (the phone) or b) For the authority to
health service can try to locate it by other means (relying on the
state security forces and bodies, for example) in case there is
any error in the registered telephone number (name, surname and ID).

4. Description of the process that allows the achievement of the intended purpose
with indication, for each one of the participants in the same, of: 4.1.
Link with the treatment (responsible, co-responsible, manager,
third, interested) of each participant. Details, where appropriate, of the contract or
legal act that links the person in charge of the treatment with the person in charge of
is in accordance with the provisions of article 28 of the GDPR. Each local or
entity is responsible for preparing the corresponding record, so it is the
data controller, based on article 6.1.c) of the GDPR (the
processing is necessary for compliance with an applicable legal obligation
to the data controller). After the publication of Law 8/2021, of 25
February, modification of Law 8/2008, of July 10, on Galician health; he
section 1) of article 38 of the aforementioned Law 8/2008 establishes:

"1. In order to protect public health, health authorities
regional and local authorities, within the scope of their powers, may adopt
mandatory preventive measures when there is or is suspected
reasonably the existence of an imminent and serious risk to the health of
the population. These measures may consist of: (...) k) The obligation to
provision of data necessary for the control and containment of the risk to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/20

public health in question and the registration of the data provided, in
special data that allow the identification of people from
places or assistants to activities or establishments that present a risk
transmission of infectious diseases, in order that the
health authorities can carry out their work of control and investigation
epidemiology of outbreaks or situations of special risk to the health of the
population. In any case, the data recorded will be strictly
essential to fulfill said purpose of control and containment of the
risk, personal data being treated with strict respect for the
regulations on data protection. (...)”

Regarding the recipient of the data in case of communication by the
responsible for the registry; within the processing activities of the System
Público de Saúde, whose data controller is the
Department of Health, there are 2: "Identification of users and professionals
of the public health system” and “System for surveillance of health problems
public”.

It is in these treatments where personal data is incorporated
communicated by the premises or entities in case they are required
by the health authority.

They have the status of interested persons who came in a
voluntarily to said premises, activities or events and gave their data if
they wished to access, participate or consume in them.

We reiterate the voluntary nature of this act and it should be noted that the premises,
activities or events for which registration was required have never been those
in which essential activities are carried out (such as
supermarkets, pharmacies, health centers, customer service offices
public…) but catering, leisure or entertainment centers.

The legal act that supports the keeping of records and the communication to the
health authority is the order of publication in the D.O.G. that forced
to keep the registry and to comply with the provisions of the legislation for the protection of
data to local
 
4.2. Description of the specific treatment carried out (registration, consultation,
communication, deletion, etc.) each participant. Specification, if any,
of the format in which you will store the personal data (digital / paper).

The treatment is registration, communication and deletion.

Notification to the health authority only occurred in the event of
any cause that requires it, such as in the event of an outbreak and
They would be removed within a month. The format was not specified.
storage, which could be digital or on paper.

4.3. Procedure for communication of the registration data of each
establishment to the health authorities: detail of the communication channel

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/20

(postal, email, telephone, etc.) and the events that cause the
shipment (specific frequency and/or at the request of the health authorities).

The data can only be communicated at the request of the authorities
sanitary (territorial headquarters of the Ministry of Health or Directorate
General of Public Health, who have recognized such a condition in the DECREE
136/2019, of October 10, which establishes the organic structure of
Ministry of Health and in article 33 of Law 8/2008, of July 10,
of health of Galicia). The communication will be made in the format that in that
when the health authority decides and always within the framework of the
investigation or monitoring of an epidemiological outbreak. has been guaranteed in
In any case, compliance with current regulations on the protection of
data.

5. Copy, where appropriate, of the favorable judicial resolutions and
unfavorable decisions that had been issued in relation to the registration measure of
customers. In all cases, the measures have been transferred to the judicial authority
for its assessment, but in no case has authorization been requested for the
register of clients when providing the Ministry of Health with a legal basis
enough for it; established in Law 8/2008, of July 10, on the health of
Galicia.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

I-Competition

The Director of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency, by virtue of the powers established in
Article 58.2 of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD Law.

II.- Summary of the Facts:

According to the claimant, on 08/27/21, in a XASTRE DO hotel establishment
PETO, S.L., asked him to fill out a form with the personal data of the diners
(name, surname, ID, telephone number and signature). The form referenced the
Order of April 14, 2021 of the Galician Ministry of Health -Order 14A- and the
purpose of collecting the necessary information in compliance with the measures
established as prevention of Covid-19.

According to the requested entity, it was a measure required by Order 14A and
that the protocol for the custody of the information was to store it in an envelope with the
date of the corresponding day the forms to be made available to the
administration for a period of five weeks and that, in case of not acting
At the request of the authorities within said period, the information was destroyed.

For its part, the Ministry of Health of the XUNTA de GALICIA points out that the
The obligation to record these data was imposed for the first time with Order 14A
whose entry into force occurred on 04/16/21 and expresses that the purpose of the treatment
was to facilitate contact tracing in the event of positive cases of Covid-19. Likewise,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/20

points out that the treatment is based on the General Health Laws 14/1986,
33/2011 General Public Health, and 8/2018 Galician Health.

Specifically, he cites, in relation to the latter, article 38.1.k and the possibility that
grants the health authority to dictate registration measures for the necessary data
for the identification of those attending activities or establishments that present
risk of transmission of contagious diseases and in terms of data
treated personal data (name, surname, ID, telephone number), states that they are
the essential data in response to a double motivation: to contact a
person in case of existence of outbreak (phone); so that the authority
may try to locate it by other means (relying on the forces and
state security bodies, for example) in case there is an error in the
Registered telephone number (name, surname and ID).

However, by means of DOG Order No. 155-Bis of 2021/8/13, of 08/13/21, the
ca the Order of 06/25/21, which establishes specific prevention measures
as a consequence of the evolution of the epidemiological situation derived from the CO-
VID-19 in the Autonomous Community of Galicia and the requirement of the exhibition is suspended.
documentation for access to certain establishments, and is replaced
by a transitory and provisional regulation and on 08/20/21 a new Order is issued in the
that the obligation to keep records of clients or assistants is maintained (Order
of DOG No. 160-Bis of 2021/8/20 - Xunta de Galicia ORDER of August 20,
2021).

III.- On the alleged illegal processing of personal data.

According to the above, when the claimed entity requests, on 08/27/21, the claimant
that provides you with the personal data of the diners based on the provisions of
the Order of the Ministry of Health of the XUNTA de GALICIA dated 06/14/21, its
mandatory was no longer in force as there was an Order dated 08/13/21 (DOG
Nº 155-Bis of 2021/8/13), by which, among others, the requirement of the exhibition was suspended.
Documentation for access to certain establishments.

In this sense, article 6.1.c GDPR establishes that:

1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions: c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a
legal obligation applicable to the data controller;

Therefore, the fact that the defendant requested the personal data of the
claimant, based on a legal obligation that was no longer in force could be
constituting an infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater value, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the GDPR:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/20

In this regard, article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious,
prescription purposes, "The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any
of the conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83 of the GDPR, with
regarding the infringement committed by violating the provisions of its article 6.1 GDPR,
in relation to it allows an initial penalty of 2,500 euros (two thousand five hundred
euro).

IV- About the alleged lack of information to customers about the treatment of
your personal information:

Recital 61) of the GDPR establishes that: "Interested parties must be provided with information
training on the processing of your personal data at the time it is obtained
have of them (…)”.

In this sense, article 12.1 of the GDPR establishes, regarding the requirements that must be
comply with the information that the data controller must make available to
interested parties, the following:

"1. The person in charge of the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate
to the interested party all the information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
any communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to the treatment
information, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, with a slow
clear and simple language, in particular any information directed specifically-
mind a child The information will be provided in writing or by other means,
including, if applicable, by electronic means. When requested by the interested party,
The information may be provided orally provided that identity is proven.
of the interested party by other means (…)”.

And for its part, article 13 of the GDPR, details the information that must be provided to the
interested when the data is collected directly from him, establishing that:

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the res-
responsible for the treatment, at the time they are obtained, facilitates
will:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their re-
presenter; b) the contact details of the data protection officer, in
Their case; c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the
legal basis of the treatment; d) when the treatment is based on article 6,
paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests of the controller or a third party; and)
recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, in
Their case; f) where appropriate, the intention of the person responsible for transferring personal data
to a third country or international organization and the existence or absence of
an adequacy decision by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers
indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph,
reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and to the means to obtain
a copy of these or the fact that they have been provided.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/20

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the data is obtained,
personal data, the following information necessary to guarantee a treatment
Fair and transparent data storage: a) the period during which they will be kept
personal data or, when this is not possible, the criteria used to determine
end this period; b) the existence of the right to request the person responsible for the
treatment access to personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification
cation or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment
to, as well as the right to data portability; c) when the treatment
is based on Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)
a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time.
without affecting the legality of the treatment based on consent.
lien prior to its withdrawal; d) the right to file a claim with
a control authority; e) if the communication of personal data is a re-
legal or contractual requirement, or a necessary requirement to enter into a contract, and
if the interested party is obliged to provide the personal data and is informed
of the possible consequences of not providing such data; f) the existence of
automated decisions, including profiling, referred to in the
Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
views of said treatment for the interested party”.

In the case at hand, on the form sheet that the defendant entity presents-
asked customers to indicate their personal data, the following could be read:

"ORDER of April 14, 2021, which modifies the Order of February 25,
February 2021 establishing the necessary actions for the
implementation of the Safe Hospitality Plan of the Autonomous Community
of Galicia (DOG No. 69-Bis)

"DATA PROTECTION: XASTRE DO PETO, S.L, As responsible for the
processing informs you that the purpose of processing your personal data
is to collect the necessary information for table reservation or appointment in
compliance with the measures established as prevention of SARS-COVID
19 and automated decisions will not be made based on the data provided.
two. Your data will be kept as long as the interested party does not request its deletion.
and, where appropriate, during the years necessary to comply with the obligations
legal purposes. We indicate the legal basis for the processing of your data: Ex-
execution of a contract: fiscal, accounting and administrative management. Legitimate Interest
of the person in charge: sending commercial communications even by telephone
single (GDPR considering 47 LSSICE art. 21.2).

Your data will be communicated to Public Administrations with competence
in the matter in order to comply with legal obligations and to third parties
in the cases necessary for the development, control and compliance of the fi-
purposes expressed in the cases provided for in the Law with the purpose of
compliance with other legal obligations. Interested people have
right to access your personal data, as well as request the rectification of
inaccurate data or, where appropriate, request its deletion when, among other reasons,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/20

the data is no longer necessary for the purposes for which it was collected.
two. You also have the right to the portability of your data. in certain
circumstances, the interested parties may limit the processing of their data
in which case we will keep them for the exercise or defense of claims
tions. You can exercise your rights in the following way: by contacting info-
@elpapatorio.com or at RUA DO FRANCO 10 BJ - C.P. 15702-SANTIAGO DE
COMPOSTELA (A CORUÑA). When commercial communications are made
based on legitimate interest, the interested party may oppose the processing of
your data for this purpose. In the event that you feel your rights have been violated with
regarding the processing of your personal data, especially when it is not
have obtained satisfaction in the exercise of their rights, they can present
a claim before the control authority on data protection
through the site: www.aedp.es. The personal data that we process in XAS-
TRE DO PETO, S.L. come from the interested party.

In the present case, it can be seen how the form lacks information
about the purpose for which it is necessary to enter personal data, that is, to
facilitate contact tracing in case of positive COVID cases, based on
Laws: 14/1986 General Health, 33/2011 General Public Health, and 8/2018
of health of Galicia.

Therefore, in the case at hand, the lack of information in accordance with the regulations
in force could imply the violation of article 13 of the GDPR.

This infraction can be penalized as established in article 83.5.b) of the
GDPR, where it is established that: "Violations of the following provisions shall be
sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20,000,000
EUR maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equal to 4%
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the one with the highest amount: a) the rights of the interested parties to
tenor of articles 12 to 22”.

In this sense, article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, considers light, for the purposes of
prescription, "Breach of the principle of transparency of information or the
right to information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the
articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed,
by violating the provisions of article 13 of the GDPR, it allows an initial sanction to be set
of 1,000 euros (one thousand euros),

V.- Regarding the sending of commercial communications to clients and the impossibility
their right to oppose this at the time their data is collected:

In the present case, the claimed entity, in the form provided to the
client is told the following:

"We indicate the legal basis for the processing of your data: Execution of a
contract: fiscal, accounting and administrative management. Legitimate Interest of the Respondent
sable: sending commercial communications even by telephone (RGPD

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/20

considering 47 LSSICE art. 21.2)

However, the form that was provided to customers to fill out
with your personal data, was not intended for the performance of a contract, in this
case, the execution of a hotel or restaurant service, but to comply with
compliance with the ORDER of April 14, 2021 of the Xunta de Gallega, by which the
established the necessary actions for the implementation of the Hospitality Plan
insurance of the Autonomous Community of Galicia.

In this sense, article 21 of the LSSI provides that:

"1. The sending of advertising or promotional communications is prohibited
by email or other equivalent electronic means of communication
that had not previously been requested or expressly authorized by
the recipients of these.

2. The provisions of the previous section shall not apply when there is a
prior contractual relationship, provided that the provider had obtained
lawful contact details of the recipient and use them to send co-
commercial communications referring to products or services of your own company
dam that are similar to those that were initially contracted
with the client.

In any case, the provider must offer the recipient the possibility of opposing
consent to the processing of your data for promotional purposes through a process
simple and free procedure, both at the time of data collection
as in each of the commercial communications that you direct.

When the communications have been sent by email, say
This means must necessarily consist of the inclusion of an email address
email or other valid electronic address where you can exercise
this right, being prohibited the sending of communications that do not include
said address.”

However, in article 21 of the GDPR, on the right of opposition, it is established
that :

"1. The interested party will have the right to oppose at any time, for reasons
related to your particular situation, to what personal data that
concerned are subject to treatment based on the provisions of article
6, paragraph 1, letter e) or f), including profiling on the basis of
such provisions. The controller will stop processing the data
personal, unless it proves compelling legitimate reasons for the treatment
that prevail over the interests, rights and freedoms of the interested party.
do, or for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims.

2. When the processing of personal data has the purpose of marketing
directly, the interested party will have the right to oppose the treatment at all times.
processing of personal data concerning you, including the preparation of
profiles to the extent that it is related to the aforementioned marketing.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/20

3. When the interested party opposes the processing for marketing purposes
directly, the personal data will no longer be processed for said purposes.

4. At the latest at the time of the first communication with the data subject,
the right indicated in sections 1 and 2 will be explicitly mentioned when
interested and will be presented clearly and apart from any other information
mation.

5. In the context of the use of information society services,
and notwithstanding the provisions of Directive 2002/58/EC, the interested party may exercise
enforce your right to object by automated means that apply specifi-
technical tions.

6. When personal data is processed for the purposes of scientific research or
historical or statistical purposes in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, the
The interested party shall have the right, for reasons related to their particular situation,
lar, to oppose the processing of personal data that concerns him, unless
necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out for reasons of in-
public interest”.

The person who owns the personal data may exercise before the res-
responsible for the treatment a series of rights, among which is the
opposition to treatment

In the present case, the respondent entity indicates in the form that, "When
allows the sending of commercial communications using as a legal basis the interest
of the person in charge, the interested party may oppose the processing of their data
for that purpose”.

But the truth is that, according to art. 21.2 of the LSSI indicated above, the provider
must offer the recipient the possibility of opposing the processing of their data
for promotional purposes through a simple and free procedure, both in the
collection of data as in each of the commercial communications
that directs you and this implies that, at the same time the data is collected,
must provide the interested party with the possibility of objecting (art. 21 of the GDPR) and not
expect, as can be deduced from what was indicated by the claimed party when the interested party
request through the means indicated in the form.

Therefore, in the case at hand, the lack of a simple and free mechanism that
makes it possible for the client to oppose the use of their personal data to send
commercial communications at the time of their collection by the
responsible could lead to the violation of article 21 of the GDPR.

This infraction can be penalized as established in article 83.5.b) of the
GDPR, where it is established that: "Violations of the following provisions shall be
sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20,000,000
EUR maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equal to 4%
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/20

above, opting for the one with the highest amount: a) the rights of the interested parties to
tenor of articles 12 to 22”.

In this sense, article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD, considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, "The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the
exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed,
by violating the provisions of article 21 of the GDPR, it allows an initial sanction to be set
of 2,500 euros (two thousand five hundred euros),

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

START: SANCTION PROCEDURE against the entity XASTRE DO PETO, S.L.
with CIF.: B70353677 by:

-

-

-

Violation of 6.1) GDPR, regarding the illegal processing of personal data
of clients, when requesting their data based on a legal obligation that already
was not in effect.

Violation of article 13 GDPR regarding the lack of information on the
purposes in the processing of your personal data included in the form
of data collection.

Violation of article 21 GDPR regarding the lack of a simple and
free to oppose, at the time of obtaining the data
personal, to the sending of commercial communications

APPOINT: D. R.R.R. as Instructor, and Secretary, if applicable, Dª S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

ADD: to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
filed by the claimant and their documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection during the phase of
investigations, all of them part of this administrative file.

WHAT: for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be 6.0
 , for the infraction of the
 00 euros (six thousand euros)
 
Article 6.1) GDPR (2,500 euros), for violation of article 13 GDPR (1,000 euros) and
for the infringement of article 21 GDPR (2,500 euros), without prejudice to what results from
The instruction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/20

NOTIFY: the present agreement to initiate a disciplinary file against the entity
XASTRE DO PETO, S.L., granting it a hearing period of ten business days to
to formulate the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, he may acknowledge his responsibility within the term
zo granted for the formulation of allegations to this initiation agreement; which
will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction that should be imposed in the
present procedure, equivalent in this case to 1,200 euros. With the application of
this reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,800 euros, resolving the
ceding with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which supposes
will give a reduction of 20% of the amount of this, equivalent in this case to 1,200
euro. With the application of this reduction, the penalty would be established at 4,800
euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at 3,600 euros (three thousand six hundred euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or waiver of any action or appeal through administrative
treatment against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
above, you must make it effective by depositing it into account No. ES00
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number
of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause
of reduction of the amount to which it receives.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the Sub-directorate General of Ins-
expectation to continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.
gives.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the date of
date of the initiation agreement or, where applicable, of the draft initiation agreement. Elapsed-
After this period, its expiration will take place and, consequently, the file of actions;
in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/20

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPA-
CAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

>>

SECOND: On September 12, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to the
payment of the penalty in the amount of 3600 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/20

compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202206486, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to XASTRE DO PETO, S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

