THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

February 14, 2022

PRESS RELEASE

 

 
 
 

 LfDI tool DS-GVO.clever for clubs is exemplary:

"Stiftung Datenschutz" takes over the LfDI tool for their

Working with clubs and expanding the offer

 

Correct data protection notices

to

formulate

falls

particularly difficult for smaller companies and associations

you

Not

above

the resources

feature,

external

Turn on data protection officers or use a

to work in your own legal department. With the LfDI tool

DS-GVO.clever, clubs and smaller companies can specifically

easily and effectively create your privacy policy. That

Tool has enjoyed great popularity since the beginning of 2021

and is very often accessed online.

 

The Federal Data Protection Foundation has now developed the LfDI tool for the

club area and incorporated it into their own educational

and information for volunteers as a "generator for

Data protection notices" integrated. The Data Protection Foundation has

In addition, minor adjustments were made to the tool

the design changed and numerous offers such as about

- 2 -

Prepared webinars for your generator. She plans too

further functional extensions of the tool.

 

State commissioner Stefan Brink: “Clubs in particular are doing well

often with

the requirements

the data protection

basic regulation difficult. We help you with DS-GVO.clever,

to fulfill their duties as simply as possible and to focus on theirs

to be able to concentrate on club work. We are very pleased,

that the Data Protection Foundation has now taken over our tool

and further developed for their own purposes. an extended one

Offer benefits all clubs in Germany.”

 
Frederick Richter, Chairman of the Data Protection Foundation: “We

want civic engagement and charitable

organizations

very handy to deal with

from

data protection regulations help. In our experience it is

especially for volunteers and small organizations

difficult to formulate data protection notices correctly. Yet

Fear of GDPR requirements should own commitment

not hinder. That's why our generator wants concrete help

Offer. We are very happy to see the good offer from DS-

to be able to set up GVO.clever.”

The cooperation with the foundation data protection wants

State Commissioner Brink in the future

continue. "The Foundation

Data protection does important work. We will continue to do so in the future

support with words and deeds to achieve our common goal

of good and practicable data protection throughout Germany

to achieve,” said the state commissioner Brink.

 

Further information:

 

The LfDI tool DS-GVO.clever is available here:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ds-

gvo.clever/

 
 

 

- 3 -

The education center BIDIB at the state representative offers

on April 1st an online training course on the use of "DS-

GVO.clever” to:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-

events/

 

At the Stiftung Datenschutz, the generator stands for

Privacy notices here:

https://stiftungdatenschutz.org/ehrenamt/generator-

privacy policy
 

