Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of May 9, 2023
                        
                            05/09/2023
                          
                      


data protection



press release


Conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities meets for the 105th timeThe conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (data protection conference) will meet on May 10th and 11th, 2023 in Rendsburg. This year, the chairperson of the conference is the State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein, Dr. H. c. Marit Hansen. The conference participants will exchange views on topics such as employee data protection, scoring, automated data analysis by the police and intelligence services and radio-based cold water meters. Hansen is looking forward to exciting discussions among colleagues from the data protection supervisory authorities: "Data protection is always a matter of technical progress and current case law - that runs through our agenda. In the data protection conference, we agree, for example, on recommendations to the legislature and assistance for data processors." About the data protection conference: The data protection conference consists of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments. It has the task of safeguarding and protecting basic data protection rights, achieving uniform application of European and national data protection law and working together to promote its further development. This is done in particular through resolutions, resolutions, guidelines, standardization, statements, press releases and determinations. Contact: Chair of the Data Protection Conference 2023 Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98 24103 Kiel Telephone: 0431 988 1289 Email: dsk2023(at)datenschutzzentrum.dehttps://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de
return

Associated files

Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of May 9, 2023

(PDF document)
494KB
