1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00206/2021

RESOLUTION
 

 OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE BY RECOGNITION

OF LIABILITY

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On MAY 14, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against D. A.A.A. with NIF
***NIF.1 which is transcribed below:

<<Procedure no.: PS/00206/2021

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim presented by the Patrol has been received in this Agency
of Seprona of Guadix (Granada), dated June 29, 2020. The claim is
directs against D.A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The Guadix Seprona Patrol states that on May 11, 12 and 13,
2020, the defendant, carried out butane gas reviews for private homes,
based on a list, with name, surname, address and telephone number of people who
At no time did they give their consent to appear in it. All of them,
born between the years 1935 and 1951.
They add that he was previously investigated for crimes of fraud and denounced for
twenty-two people since 2019, and who supposedly works for the company
ENERGY-GAS, which does not appear as a company registered to carry out activities of
gas check.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant and the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Several requests for information were made to the respondent, firstly, to the
address provided by Seprona and subsequently to the fiscal domicile provided
by the AEAT. All notifications were returned, by the postal service.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

         Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers of Attorney”, says:

II

                 “2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers
corrections listed below:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
(...)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of the case
particular
(…)”

III

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of "lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency". The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the

interested party (<<legality, loyalty and transparency>>);”

          Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it carried out the treatment of the
personal data of third parties without legal authorization to do so.

  
The personal data were registered in lists of the claimed and were
treaties without legitimacy for it. Consequently, it has carried out a treatment of
personal data without having proven that you have the legal authorization to
it.

In short, it appears in the file provided by the Seprona Patrol of
Guadix (Granada) that on May 11, 12 and 13, 2020, the defendant, made
butane gas reviews by private homes, based on a list, with
name, surnames, address and telephone number of people who were unaware of their inclusion in
the same.

Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

v

          In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to be imposed
in the present case to the one claimed as responsible for an infraction typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, in an initial assessment, the following are considered concurrent
factors:

-

In the present case we are facing an intentional action (article 83.2 b) RGPD).

Basic identifiers are affected (name, surnames and addresses),

-
(art. 83.2 g) RGPD).

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed and

set it at the amount of €5,000 for the infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against D.A.A.A., with NIF
***NIF.1, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD typified in article
83.5.a) and classified as a very serious infringement, for prescription purposes, by article
72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: APPOINT instructor D. R.R.R. and secretary to Ms. S.S.S., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, and all
documents generated by the claim.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond to the infraction (article 83.5.a, RGPD) would be
5,000 euros (five thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to D. A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, granting
a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and
Submit whatever evidence you deem appropriate. In his pleadings
You must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading
of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that
the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the total sanction
would be established at 4,000 euros (four thousand euros), resolving the procedure
with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the total sanction would be established at 4,000 euros (four thousand euros) and its
payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the total sanction would be established at 3,000 euros (three
a thousand euros)

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above, 4,000 euros or 3,000 euros, you must do so
cash by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened
on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears
in the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
is welcomed.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency>>

THIRD: Notification of the Start Agreement on May 26, 2021. The claimant to
through its representative has proceeded on June 9, 2021, to the recognition of its
responsibility in the aforementioned facts, stating that he cannot face
to the payment of the established sanction and requesting a fractionation in the payment.

FOURTH: The acknowledgment of responsibility entails the renunciation of any
administrative action or recourse against the sanction, in relation to the facts to
those referred to in the Start Agreement.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It appears in the file, provided by the Guadix Seprona Patrol,
that on May 11, 12 and 13, 2020, the respondent carried out gas checks
butane by private homes, based on a list, with name, surnames,
address and telephone number of people who were unaware of their inclusion in it.
FOURTH: It is recorded that the Start Agreement was notified on May 26, 2021, proceeded
the representative of the defendant to the acknowledgment of his responsibility in the facts
mentioned.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: That for the purposes provided in article 85 of the LPACAP, however
that the defendant has acknowledged his responsibility, the sanction would be established
in 4,000 euros (four thousand euros), resolving the procedure with the imposition of
this sanction.

SECOND: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00206/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to D. A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

