 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The General Data 

Protection Regulation 
Guidelines  issued  by  the  Malta 

Gaming  Authority,  in  consultation 

with  the  Information  and  Data 

Protection  Commissioner,  for  the 
Maltese Gaming Industry 

 

Last updated May 2018 

 

Contents 
1 

Scope ............................................................................................................................................... 4 

2 

3 

Definitions ....................................................................................................................................... 4 

Applicability ..................................................................................................................................... 5 

3.1 

Territorial scope ...................................................................................................................... 5 

3.2  Material scope ........................................................................................................................ 5 

4 

Lawful Processing of Personal Data ................................................................................................ 6 

4.1 

4.2 

4.3 

4.4 

Legal Obligation ...................................................................................................................... 6 

Contract................................................................................................................................... 6 

Consent ................................................................................................................................... 7 

Legitimate Interest .................................................................................................................. 8 

5 

Data Subjects’ Rights ..................................................................................................................... 10 

5.1 

Right to be Informed ............................................................................................................. 10 

5.2  What should a privacy policy include? .................................................................................. 10 

5.3  When is the privacy policy to be notified, and/or brought to the attention of the player? 11 

5.4  When  can  an  Operator  process  a  player’s  data  without  informing  the  player  that  such 
processing is taking place? ................................................................................................................ 12 

5.5 

5.6 

5.7 

5.8 

Right of access ....................................................................................................................... 13 

Right to rectification ............................................................................................................. 14 

Right to Data Portability ........................................................................................................ 14 

Right to Object ...................................................................................................................... 17 

6 

7 

Automated Decision-Making and Profiling ................................................................................... 18 

The Controller-Processor Relationship ......................................................................................... 18 

7.1 

7.2 

Affiliates ................................................................................................................................ 19 

Security measures ................................................................................................................. 20 

8  Marketing ...................................................................................................................................... 21 

8.1 

8.2 

Unsolicited marketing ........................................................................................................... 21 

Solicited Direct Marketing .................................................................................................... 21 

8.3  Marketing carried out by third parties, including by affiliates ............................................. 21 

9 

Data Retention .............................................................................................................................. 21 

9.1 

Right of Erasure ..................................................................................................................... 23 

10 

The Cross-Border Processing of Personal Data, within, and outside, the EU/EEA ................... 24 

10.1 

Intra-Group Transfers of Personal Data within the EEA ....................................................... 24 

10.2 

Transfer of Personal Data outside the EEA ........................................................................... 24 

Public 
 

` 

Page 2 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

10.3  Determining a Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) .................................................................. 25 

11 

12 

Data Protection Officers ........................................................................................................... 26 

Accountability, Transparency and Good Governance .............................................................. 27 

12.1  Data Mapping and Data Ledgers ........................................................................................... 28 

12.2  Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIAs) ....................................................................... 28 

12.3  Adherence to Codes of Conduct ........................................................................................... 28 

 

 

 

Public 
 

` 

Page 3 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

1  Scope 

These guidelines are intended to provide B2C licensees with guidance on the processing of personal 
data carried out throughout the course of their gaming service operations.  

These Guidelines have been developed after a consultation process with the Information and Data 
Protection Commissioner who ascertained that the provisions of these Guidelines comply with the 
General  Data  Protection  Regulation.  This  notwithstanding,  such  guidelines  and  the  interpretations 
contained herein are without prejudice to any decision which the Commissioner may take in relation 
to  complaints  and,  or  to  any  other  specific  data  protection  issue.      These  interpretations  are  also 
without prejudice to any further guidelines or opinions that might be issued by the Article 29 Data 
Protection Working Party and, as from 25th May 2018, by the European Data Protection Board. 

These Guidelines are considered to be a living document and will be further developed over time as 
practical issues arise with the effective implementation of the GDPR.  

These guidelines are to be read in parallel with legal requirements imposed on Operators by virtue of 
Maltese  gaming  laws,  and  are  without  prejudice  to  the  said  legislation.  These  guidelines  are  not 
intended to replace any law, legal obligation or decision. 

2  Definitions 

Personal data: means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (in the 
following defined also as "data subject"); an identifiable person is one who can be identified, directly 
or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number (e.g. 
client  number),  location  data,  online  identifier  or  to  one  or  more  factors  specific  to  the  physical, 
physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that person. 

Special categories of personal data: means personal data disclosing racial or ethnic origin, religious or 
philosophical  beliefs  or  trade-union  membership,  as well  as  genetic  data,  biometric  data  aimed  at 
unequivocally identifying a natural person, data related to the health or sex life or sexual orientation 
of the person. 

For the avoidance of any doubt, data pertaining to self-exclusions is not considered to be data related 
to  health,  and  hence  does  not  fall  under  special  categories  of  personal  data.  In  the  event  that, 
throughout  the  course  of  communication  with  a  player,  a  B2C  licensee  is  forwarded  any  specific 
medical data, such as a doctor’s report, or information about a player’s health, such information is to 
be  treated  as  a  special  category  of  personal  data  and  therefore  the  provisions  and  safeguards 
applicable to such data as laid down within the GDPR are to be adhered to. 

Processing:  means  any  operation  or  set  of  operations  performed  upon  personal  data  or  sets  of 
personal  data,  whether  or  not  by  automated  means,  such  as  collection,  recording,  organisation, 
structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, 
dissemination  or  otherwise  making  available,  alignment  or  combination,  restriction,  erasure  or 
destruction. 

Data  controller: means  the  entity  which  alone  or jointly with others  determines  the  purposes  and 
means of the processing of personal data. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 4 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

For the purposes of the GDPR, a B2C licence holder which determines the purposes and means of the 
processing of personal data is considered a data controller. 

Data processor: means the entity (company or individual) processing personal data on behalf of the 
controller. 

For example, a cloud service provider is considered a data processor processing data on behalf of the 
company  (client)  which  determines  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing  of  its  customers’ 
personal data. 

3  Applicability 

3.1 

Territorial scope 

From  a  territorial  perspective,  the  GDPR  does  not  differentiate  between  data  controller  and  data 
processor and sets out the same territorial scope for both of them. 

Mainly, the GDPR applies in the following two situations: 

– 

– 

the processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of an establishment 
(i.e. the effective and real exercise of activity through stable arrangements) of the controller 
or processor within the EU; or 
the processing of the data of individuals within the EU takes place by a controller or processor 
not established in the EU. 

For  the  applicability  of  the  GDPR,  it  is  therefore  not  necessarily  decisive  where  the  data  is  being 
processed. 

These guidelines apply to B2C licensees that process personal data during the course of their business 
activities of an establishment in Malta regardless of whether the actual processing takes place in the 
EU or otherwise.  

Non-EU established companies will be subject to the GDPR where they process personal data about 
EU data subjects in connection with: 

the offering of goods or services” (payment is not required); or 

- 
-  monitoring data subjects' behaviour within the EU (including online profiling activities, i.e. the 
tracking of individuals online to create profiles, including where this is used to take decisions 
to analyse/predict personal preferences, behaviours and attitudes). 

While  reference  is  made  to  data  processors,  such  as  cloud  service  providers  and  data  centers, 
throughout the guidelines, this document is by no means sufficient to ensure their compliance with 
the GDPR, and it is advised that data processors seek further legal guidance on the matter. 

3.2  Material scope 

The GDPR applies to the processing of personal data wholly or partly by automated means (the latter 
meaning any processing where certain steps are carried out by individuals, such as entering data into 
a  computer)  and  to  the  processing  other  than  by  automated  means  of  personal  data  which  is 
contained or intended to be contained in a filing system which are structured according to specific 
criteria.  

Public 
 

` 

Page 5 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

 

The material scope is interpreted in a very broad manner in order to ensure a high level of protection, 
so basically the GDPR will become relevant for companies as soon as any processing of personal data 
takes place. 

4  Lawful Processing of Personal Data 

Under the GDPR, personal data can only be processed if, and to the extent that, at least one legal basis 
for the processing listed below applies: 

a)  the data subject has consented to the processing; 
b)  it is necessary for the entry into, or performance of, a contract with the data subject or in 

order to take steps at his request prior to the entry into a contract; 
it is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation under EU law or national law; 

c) 
d)  it is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural 

e) 

f) 

person; 
it is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise 
of official authority vested in the controller; and, or 
it is necessary for the purposes of legitimate interests pursued by the data controller (or by a 
third  party),  except  where  the  controller's  interests  are  overridden  by  the  interests, 
fundamental rights or freedoms of the affected data subjects. 

These  guidelines  will  focus  on  four  particular  bases,  ‘Legal  obligation’,  ‘Contract’,  ‘Consent’  and 
‘Legitimate Interest’ since it is expected that, generally, most of the Operators’ processing activities 
will be carried out relying on one or more of such bases. It is imperative that Operators determine the 
appropriate legal basis (or bases) from the start, since, as specified below, the legal basis on which the 
personal data is being processed must be communicated to the respective data subjects. 

4.1 

Legal Obligation 

A legal obligation imposed on the Operator by virtue of gaming legislation, AML legislation, or any 
other specific law, may be determined as the appropriate basis on which to process players’ personal 
data. References to such a basis are made throughout the document. 

4.2 

Contract 

The contract entered into between a player and an Operator can serve as one of the legal basis on 
which a player’s personal data is processed. However, the term ‘necessary for the performance of a 
contract’ needs to be interpreted strictly. Processing is deemed necessary if the contract could not be 
fulfilled without the processing taking place, therefore it is important to determine the scope of the 
contract or service, and to limit the personal data being processed to what is strictly necessary in order 
to provide the gaming service. 

For example,  processing  personal  data  for marketing  purposes  cannot  be  considered  to  be  strictly 
necessary to offer a gaming service and consequently such processing activity must rely on a separate 
consent which should be obtained in accordance with the requirements of the  GDPR as explained 
below. If the player refuses to consent to this processing purpose, the operator may not deny services 
to the player, or apply any increased fees. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 6 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

For example, online subscription forms should clearly identify which fields are “required”, which are 
not, and what will be the consequences of not filling in the required fields (e.g. the player will not be 
able to receive special offers and promotions. 

The contract itself, therefore, is not to include or to be merged with consent, when consent itself is 
being used as a legal basis for processing which is not necessary for the performance of the contract.  

It must be noted that the player may exercise the right to restriction, rectification and access when 
the data processing is based on contract. 

4.3 

Consent 

The more a controller relies on consent as a legal basis for the processing, the more the data subject 
is in control of their activities, and the greater the trust between the two. However, it must be kept in 
mind that consent may be withdrawn, and might hence not be an ideal basis for the processing of data 
in the course of specific activities pertaining to the gaming operation. 

Consent must be freely given: players must specifically opt-in by checking boxes which are not pre-
checked. Consent is not to be bundled up in non-negotiable terms and conditions, and is not to be 
presumed to be given. Additionally, each specific tick-box for consent should only cover processing 
activities which are carried out for the same purpose or purposes; multiple purposes must result in 
multiple, specific consents1. 

By way of a general example, in order for consent to be valid, separate consent must be sought from 
the players when the operator would like to send marketing via email, and when the operator would 
like to share the details of the player with other companies within the same group of companies or 
with third parties outside the group. 

If an Operator would like to process the data for a new purpose, then it would need to seek  new 
consent from the player for the new processing purpose. The original consent will never legitimise 
further or new purposes for the processing2. 

Consent  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  that  is  unnecessary,  cannot  be  seen  as  a  mandatory 
consideration in exchange for the performance of a contract or the provision of a service. Therefore, 
as explained above, denial or withdrawal of consent for marketing purposes, may not result in the 
Operator denying services to the player, or in the Operator applying any increased fees3.  

In order to provide a summary, the data subject must be provided with the following information: 

a)  specific details on the operator which is seeking the consent, if the consent sought is to be 
relied upon by multiple (joint) controllers or if the data is to be transferred to or processed by 
other controllers who wish to rely on the original consent, these organisations should all be 
named.(details  of  at  least  one  data  processor,  such  as  cloud  service  providers  and  data 
centers, need not be provided, although Operators will need to make available a full list of 
recipients or categories of recipients including processors (please refer to section 5 -Right to 
be informed - below for more details); 

                                                           
1 Recital 32 GDPR. 
2 WP 29 Guidelines on Consent, page 12. 
3 Recital 42 GDPR. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 7 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

b)  the purpose of every processing activity for which consent is being sought; 
c)  the type of data that will be collected and used; 
d)  the existence of the right to withdraw consent, and how one may avail himself of this right 
(which  in  any  case  cannot  be  more  burdensome  than  the  manner  in  which  one  can  give 
consent, e.g. via the same electronic interface, like a website or an app, used to opt-in); 
information about the use of the data for decisions based solely on automated processing, 
including  profiling  (kindly  refer  to  section  6  -  Automated  decision  making  and  Profiling  -
below). 

e) 

It must be noted that data processing based on a player’s consent is subject to data portability (kindly 
refer to section 5 -Right to Data Portability -  for more information), and the player may exercise the 
right to erasure, restriction, rectification and access. 

If an Operator finds that the consent obtained under previous legislation will not meet the standard 
of GDPR consent, then Operators must assess whether the processing may be based on a different 
legal basis, taking into account the conditions laid down in the GDPR. If an Operator is unable to renew 
consent in a compliant way, and is also unable to make the transition to GDPR compliance by basing 
data processing on different legal basis while ensuring that continued processing is fair and accounted 
for, the processing activities must be interrupted. In any event the controller needs to observe the 
principles  of  lawful,  fair  and  transparent  processing.  However,  in  the  event  that  the  previously-
obtained consent meets the standards of GDPR consent, and the purposes of the data processing will 
be unchanged with regard to the consent which has already been obtained, it is not necessary for a 
B2C licensee to obtain a new consent. Having said this, the controller is still required to inform the 
data  subjects  about  the  new  privacy  terms,  including  the  applicable  rights,  in  line  with  the 
transparency requirements set out under Article 13 of the GDPR.  

As a general rule, if consent is withdrawn, all data processing operations that were based on consent 
and took place before the withdrawal of consent - and in accordance with the GDPR - remain lawful, 
however, the controller must stop the processing actions concerned. If there is no other lawful basis 
justifying the processing (e.g. further storage) of the data, they should be deleted or anonymised by 
the data controller4. 

4.4 

Legitimate Interest 

A data controller may rely upon legitimate interest as legal basis for the processing of personal data, 
subject  to  identifying  a  legitimate  interest,  establishing  that  the  processing  is  ‘necessary’  and 
conducting a balancing test. Legitimate interests  can be  those of the controller or a third party to 
whom the personal data may be disclosed. 

Operators should consider whether that processing is necessary for the pursuit of their commercial or 
business objectives (i.e. there does not appear to be another way of achieving the identified interest), 
and then  confirm, by means of a balancing test, that the rights and freedoms of the player whose 
personal data will be processed have been evaluated, and that these interests do not override the 
Operator’s  legitimate  interests,  taking  into  account,  for  example,  the  scale  of  data  collection,  the 
nature of the interests, the impact of the processing and any safeguards which are or could be put in 
place  such  as  data  minimisation,  de-identification  and  data  retention  limits.  If  a  player  could  not 

                                                           
4 WP 29 Guidelines on Consent, page 22. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 8 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

reasonably expect the processing, or if the processing causes unjustified harm, the player’s interests 
will override the Operator’s ‘legitimate’ interests. 

Practical scenarios: this is a broad, non-exhaustive list of examples, intended to give an illustration of 
scenarios  in  which  Operators  may  consider  the  use  of  legitimate  interests  as  the  basis  for  the 
processing of personal data. All of these examples would be subject to the Operator conducting its 
own balancing test in accordance with Article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR. 

a)  Fraud - An Operator wants to process a player’s personal data as part of its business critical 
anti-fraud measures. Although this is undoubtedly in the interests of the Operator, it could 
also be seen as benefitting other players, since the cost of fraud results in the restrictive offer 
of bonuses and promotions generally. 

b)  Risk Assessment - Operators need to “risk assess” all their players for a number of scenarios 
envisaged by separate legal obligations, including but not limited to anti-money laundering 
(AML)  and  player  protection  obligations.  However,  risk-assessment  are  also  carried  out  in 
order for Operators to determine the nature of the products and services they are offering, 
and the terms of those services. Although details of such processing should be included within 
the privacy policy, it is not required that an Operator seeks consent for such risk-assessment-
related processing. 

c)  Players who have opted-out of receiving marketing communications - In order to ensure that 
a player who has opted-out of receiving marketing communications, but has not self-excluded, 
receives no marketing communications, that player’s data must be held on a suppression file. 
The  legitimate  interest  ground  may  be  satisfied  here,  as  long  as  the  Operator  holds  the 
minimised amount of personal data possible in order to uphold this request.  

d)  Network  security  –  Any  network  security  activity  undergone  by  an  Operator  and  which  is 
considered to be an essential processing activity by the Operator, which activity is intended 
to ensure that its customers are continually protected. 

e)  Personalisation and web-analytics – An Operator may rely on legitimate interests to justify 
non-personalised analytics to inform its marketing strategy and to enable it to enhance and 
personalise  the  “gaming  experience”  it  offers  to  its  players  (in  line  with  the  relevant 
Commercial Communications legislation). 

f)  Non-invasive  profiling  for  direct  marketing  –  While  an  Operator  should  generally  rely  on 
consent  for  marketing  communications,  it  may  rely  on  legitimate  interest  for  clustering 
customers  based  on  age  group,  location  and  game  history  for  direct  marketing  purposes, 
provided that the level of intrusiveness of the profiling is low and the appropriate measures 
(including security measures  and easy to use opt-out  tools) are adopted to strengthen the 
legitimacy of the processing and to genuinely balance the interests of the Operator with the 
reasonable  expectations of  the  players.  However,  when  in  doubt  as to  whether  to  rely on 
consent or legitimate interest, it is advised that you seek guidance from your Lead Supervisory 
Authority (LSA). 

g)  Customer Support logs – Even when the storage of such logs are not mandated by law, the 
information within the logs may be used to manage disputes with players, to direct players to 
responsible gaming support staff, and to improve the players’ experience. Such logs could also 
be  used  to  identify  recurring  software  issues,  and  to  analyse  the  patterns  of  behaviour  of 
customers and staff provided that an adequate balancing test has been carried out and such 
analysis does not comprehend invasive profiling. 

h)  Artificial intelligence and machine learning  - An Operator can put in place a system which 
uses artificial intelligence and neural network to route customer communications to the most 

Public 
 

` 

Page 9 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

appropriate part of the organisation. These routes could link individuals to specific agents who 
can handle specific requests, but in addition the algorithm might ask a series of questions and 
provide  appropriate  answers  without  the  need  for  human  intervention.  The  system  by 
processing  personal  data  of  the  individual  would  learn  to  optimize  its  suggestions  and 
answers. 

Operators relying on legitimate interests as the basis for fair processing must maintain a record of the 
assessment they have made, so that they can demonstrate that they have given proper consideration 
to the rights and freedoms of data subjects in their determinations. 

Additionally, it should be noted that the presumption of legitimacy may be challenged by an individual 
(or  group  of  individuals),  in  which  case  the  processing  must  stop  unless  the  controller  can  show 
compelling  grounds  to  continue  with  the  processing  which  override  the  individual’s  rights,  or 
alternatively if the processing is needed to establish, exercise or defend legal claims. 

5  Data Subjects’ Rights 

The GDPR enshrines the various rights of data subjects to be observed and respected by controllers 
and  processors  of  personal  data.  The  manner  in  which  some  of  these  rights  are  applicable  to  the 
industry is outlined below: 

5.1 

Right to be Informed 

The GDPR imposes a general obligation of transparency. Operators must be transparent on the data 
they are processing by providing clear, concise, intelligible and easily accessible information notices 
to all their players. These information notices, also known as privacy policies, are to be brought to the 
attention of the data subject whose data is being processed by an Operator. 

5.2  What should a privacy policy include? 

Privacy policies should include the following minimum information: 

a) 

Identity  and  contact  details  of  the  data  controller,  i.e.  the  Operator,  who  determines  the 
purpose of the processing and, where applicable, of the controller’s representative, as well as 
the contact details of the Operator’s Data Protection Officer (DPO). 

b)  Purposes  of  processing  and  legal  basis  for  processing  –  including  the  “legitimate  interest” 
pursued  by  the  controller  (or  third  party)  if  this  is  the  legal  basis  chosen,  i.e.  the  specific 
interest in question must be identified. Furthermore operators should make clear to players 
that they can obtain information on the balancing test, at the basis of the legitimate interest, 
upon request5. 

c)  An  Operator’s  privacy  policy  should  also  inform  players  or  potential  players  that  when  an 
account is opened, the player(s) personal data may be processed for anti-money laundering 
(AML) purposes, particularly in light of the exception detailed below. 

d)  Recipients, or categories of recipients. This includes other data controllers, joint controllers 
and data processors to whom data is transferred or disclosed. The default position is that a 
data controller should provide information on the actual (named) recipients of the personal 
data. This means that the data processors should be listed in the privacy policy. Where a data 
controller opts to only provide the categories of recipients, the data controller must be able 

                                                           
5 WP 29 Guidelines on Transparency, page 36. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 10 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

to  demonstrate  why  it  is  fair  for  it  to  take  this  approach.  In  such  circumstances,  the 
information on the categories of recipients should be as specific as possible by indicating the 
type of recipient, for instance, by reference to the activities it carries out. 

e)  Details  of  data  transfers  outside  the  EU  and  the  reference  to  the  appropriate  or  suitable 
safeguards. The data subject shall be provided also with the means to obtain a copy of them 
or details as to where they have been made available (e.g. link to the website page of the 
Standard Contractual Clauses). 

f)  The retention period for the data, or, if no period can be possibly set, the criteria used to set 
this. It is not sufficient for the Operator to state that the personal data will be kept for as long 
as necessary for the legitimate purposes of the processing. 

g)  That the player has a right to access his/her data, as well as rectify, erase and restrict it, as 

well as to ‘port’ it (see right to data portability below). 

h)  That  the  player  has  a  right  to  object  to  the  processing  or  his/her  data,  and  to  withdraw 

consent, if the processing is based on consent. 

i)  The possibility of a player to lodge a complaint to a supervisory authority. This information 
should explain that, in accordance with Article 77 of the GDPR, the player has the right to 
lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, in particular in the Member State of his or her 
habitual residence, place of work or place of an alleged infringement. 

j)  Whether  there  is  a  statutory  or  contractual  requirement  to  provide  the  data  and  the 
consequences of not providing that data (only applicable in relation to data collected directly 
from the data subject). For example, upon registration, online forms should clearly identify 
which fields are “required”, which are not, and what will be the consequences of not filling in 
the required fields. 

k)  Whether or not there will be any automated decision taking, and if so, information about the 
logic  involved  and  the  significance  and  consequences  of  the  processing  for  the  player. 
Furthermore,  the  data  subject  should  be  informed  of  the  existence  of  profiling  and  the 
consequences of such profiling together with meaningful information about the logic involved 
and the significant and envisaged consequences of the processing for the data subject. 

5.3  When is the privacy policy to be notified, and/or brought to the attention of the player? 

As a general rule, a privacy policy is to be brought to a data subject’s attention when his/her data is 
collected and also during the course of the Operator-player relationship.  

Changes to a privacy policy should always be communicated if they include substantive modifications 
(i.e a change to the identity of the controller or a change as to how data subjects can exercise their 
rights in relation to the processing.) The GDPR provides further guidance as to when such information 
must be provided. Specifically, this depends on the time as to when this data is collected: if this data 
is collected directly from the player, then all the information must be provided at the time that the 
data is obtained. If the Operator does not obtain this data directly from the player, then the Operator, 
in addition to informing the subject of the source(s) of the information, even if it came from publicly 
accessible sources, must provide such information: 

i)  within a reasonable period of having obtained the data, but not later than one month from 

ii) 

having received it; 
if  the  said  data  is  used  to  communicate  with  the  individual,  not  later  than  when  the  first 
communication takes place; or 

iii)  if the data is to be disclosed to another recipient, before such data is disclosed. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 11 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

Given the long list of contents which are to be included within a privacy policy, it is understandably 
challenging  to  provide  the  information  efficiently  and  succinctly,  however  the  below  points  are 
intended to provide further guidance to assist Operators to fulfil their GDPR obligations in this regard: 

a)  The information should be clearly differentiated from other non-privacy related information, 

for example contractual provisions or general terms and conditions of use.  

b)  Intelligibility  is  closely  linked  to  the  requirement  to  use  clear  and  plain  language.  To  this 
extent,  an  accountable  data  controller  will  have  knowledge  about  the  people  they  collect 
information about and it can use this knowledge to determine what that audience would likely 
understand6.  

c)  Online Operators should ‘layer’ the information. This will enable a player to easily navigate 
through  headings  of  information  within  the  privacy policy,  and  access  any  particular  point 
which he/she would like more detail on.  

d)  Within  the  registration-page,  prior  to  registering  as  a  player,  the  privacy  policy  should  be 

brought to the attention of the player. 

e)  Once  the  player  has  registered,  and  throughout  the  player’s  use  of  the  website,  online 
Operators should provide a link to the privacy policy on every page of the website. In the case 
of  applications,  the  information  should  be  made  available  on  the  online  store  prior  to 
purchasing  the  product.   Once  the app  is  installed, the  information  still  needs  to  be  easily 
accessible from within the app. Additionally, the privacy information in question should be 
specific  to  the  particular  app  and  should  not  merely  be  the  generic  privacy  policy  of  the 
company that owns the app or makes it available to the public. Generally speaking, the entire 
privacy policy should not be more than two clicks/ two taps away.  

f)  Land-based Operators should attach a printed copy of the privacy policy to the registration 
form, where this is provided in hard-copy. If the form is filled on a computer device, a tablet 
or similar tool, the registration form should include a link to the privacy policy. 

g)  When data is being collected from a data subject, the link to the policy should be immediately 

accessible7.  

h)  The language must be as clear, and simplistic as possible, devoid of abstract or ambivalent 

terms.  

i)  The purposes of, and legal basis for, processing the personal data should be clear. Words such 
as “may”, “might”, “some”, “often” and “possible” should be avoided. Where data controllers 
use indefinite language, they should be able to demonstrate why the use of such language 
could not be avoided and how it does not undermine the fairness of processing. 

j)  The privacy policy should be in the English or Maltese language, and in all the languages of the 

countries in which the Operator is providing the service. 

5.4  When can an Operator process a player’s data without informing the player that such 

processing is taking place? 

Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR  also provide  a short list of exceptions to this obligation to provide 
information. With regard to data which has been collected from the individual, the only exception 
occurs  when  and  insofar  as,  the  data  subject  already  has  the  information.8  Given  that,  within  the 

                                                           
6 WP29 Guidelines on Transparency provide an example: “a controller collecting the personal data of working 
professionals  can  assume  its audience  has a  higher  level of  understanding  than a controller  that  obtains  the 
personal data of children”. 
7 WP 29 Guidelines on Transparency, page 8. 
8 Article 13(4) of GDPR. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 12 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

gaming industry, most of the  time data will be collected from the player at  registration stage,  it is 
unlikely that the player would already have the privacy policy. Any time the player provides additional 
data to the Operator after registration stage, although not necessarily required by law, it would be 
considered best practice if the privacy policy is brought to the player’s attention once more.  

Where personal data has not been collected from the data subject, an Operator may be exempt from 
providing information regarding the processing of the data if: 

a)  The  provision  of  such  information  would  make  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  of  the 
processing impossible, or seriously impair them. To rely on this exception, Operators must 
demonstrate that the provision of the information alone would nullify the objectives of the 
processing. Of course there would need to be legal basis for the processing of the data, and it 
must be done in a fair manner. To this end, such instances will be laid down within further 
legal instruments issued under the Data Protection Act. 

For  example,  Operators  are  subjected  to  a  mandatory  requirement  under  Anti-Money 
Laundering (AML) legislation to report suspicious activity relating to accounts held with it to 
the relevant gaming and/or financial authority. The AML legislation in question makes it a 
criminal offence for a reporting Operator to “tip-off” the account-holder that may be subject 
to  regulatory  investigations.  Such  a  scenario  qualifies  as  an  exception,  however  upon 
registering  an  account,  all  account-holders  should  have  been  provided  with  general 
information  informing  them  that  the  players’  personal  data  may  be  processed  for  AML 
purposes. 

b)  Obtaining or disclosing the data is expressly laid down in the law. To qualify for this exception, 
data Operators must be able to demonstrate how the law in question applies to them, and 
requires  them  to  either  obtain  or  disclose  the  personal  data  in  question.  However,  the 
Operator should make it clear, within the privacy policy, that it obtains or discloses personal 
data in accordance with the applicable law, unless there is a legal prohibition preventing the 
data controller from doing so. 

5.5 

Right of access 

This right is intended to empower data subjects to be aware of the personal data being processed and 
to be able to verify the lawfulness of that processing.  

Under the GDPR, data subjects will have the right to obtain: 

a)  Confirmation that data about them is being processed; 
b)  A copy of their personal data undergoing processing; and 
c)  Other supplementary information, including information on appropriate safeguards in place 

when transferring data. 

Players have a right to request access to their personal data in the gaming industry, when taking into 
account that Operators process large quantity of information concerning their clients. Upon receiving 
a Subject Access Request (SAR), a B2C licensee should be able to ask the data subject to specify the 
information or processing activities to which the request relates. However, if such a subject access 
request is not limited, then a B2C licensee must provide such information as required by the GDPR.  

Public 
 

` 

Page 13 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

For  the  purposes  of  facilitating  subject  access  requests,  Operators  may  consider  providing  data 
subjects with remote access to a secure system which would provide the data subjects with direct 
access to his or her personal data. 

The  data  subject  must  be  given  a  reason  when  the  Operator  does  not  intend  to  comply  with  the 
request and also provided with the necessary information on the possibility to lodge a complaint with 
the supervisory authority and seeking a judicial remedy. 

The  GDPR  makes  it  clear  that  the  right  to  obtain  a  copy  shall  not  adversely  affect  the  rights  and 
freedom  of  others.    Furthermore,  Operators  can  refuse  to  provide  that  information  which  reveals 
trade secrets, intellectual property and, in particular, copyright protecting software. 

5.6 

Right to rectification 

The  data  subject  has  the  right  to  have  inaccurate  personal  data  about  him  corrected.  The  data 
controller  must  take  every  reasonable  step  to  ensure  that  inaccurate  personal  data  is  rectified  or 
deleted. 

Operators must respond to a request for rectification within one month. The data subject must be 
given a reason when the Operator does not intend to comply with the request and also provided with 
the necessary information on the possibility to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority and 
seeking a judicial remedy. 

5.7 

Right to Data Portability 

The newly introduced right to data portability imposes two new obligations on the controller. Upon 
data subjects' request, the controller shall: 

a)  forward to the data subjects the personal data which they have received from the same data 

subject, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format; and 

b)  transmit those data to another data controller, where it is technically feasible to do so. 

Controllers  should  consider  having  download  tools  or  API  setups  –  data  must  be  transmitted  in  a 
structured, commonly used and machine-readable format. The GDPR encourages controllers to have 
interoperable  formats,  however  this  is  not  an  obligation  to  adopt  or  maintain  processing  systems 
which are technically compatible. In the absence of any format common to the industry, controllers 
are to provide the data using commonly-used open formats (e.g. XML, JSON, CSV, etc). Upon selecting 
a format, the Operator should consider how this format would impact or hinder the individual’s right 
to  re-use  the  data.  Controllers  should  keep  in  mind,  however,  that  they  are  prohibited  from 
establishing barriers to the transmission, even if the request relates to sending over a player’s data to 
a  competitor.  Any  potential  business  risk  cannot  serve  as  the  basis  for  a  refusal  to  answer  the 
portability request, and controllers must seek to transmit the personal data in question in a format 
which does not release information covered by trade secrets or intellectual property rights9. 

If the data is handled by another party on the data subject’s behalf, the other party is to be considered 
a controller, even for the sole purpose of data storage.  

This right of the players complements the right of access to their data. If Operators ensure that such 
data  is  stored  in  an  easily  accessible  manner,  then  it  would  be  significantly  easier,  and  much  less 

                                                           
9 WP29 Guidelines on right to data portability, page 12. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 14 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

burdensome, for them to comply with both rights. However, it should be noted that portability is a 
narrower right than subject access. It only applies to: 

a)  personal  data  which  is  processed  by automated means,  and  therefore  excludes  any  paper 

records; 

b)  personal data which the data subject, i.e. the player, has provided to the controller; and 
c)  only to cases where the basis for processing is consent, or that the data is being processed to 

fulfil a contract or steps preparatory to a contract. 

In industry terms, data which falls under this rights includes all player data submitted by the player 
upon registration, and any data which the player would have passed on to the Operator in the course 
of any dealings between the two, or even personal data which has been generated by the Operator 
from observation of the player’s activity, such as activity logs and history of website usage. Any history 
of self-exclusion or wager, loss or deposit limits should also be considered personal data which can be 
transferred by virtue of this right. However, the right does not extend to personal data inferred or 
derived by the Operator, for example the results of an algorithmic analysis of the individual’s gaming 
behaviour, or a player’s profile kept by the Operator in the context of risk-management and financial 
regulations. Neither are Operators obliged to answer a data portability request concerning personal 
data  processed  as  part  of  their  obligations  to  prevent  and  detect  money  laundering  and  financial 
crimes, and manipulation of sports competitions, where law dictates such obligations 10. 

It must also be noted that data portability must not prejudice any other right held by the player (this 
rule applies to all rights in the GDPR). It means that if the data is requested by the player, or a player 
requests the Operator to transfer his/her data to another controller, the Operator should not erase 
that data from its systems, and the original retention period applying to the data which has just been 
transmitted,  remains  applicable.  It  therefore  follows  that  the  same  player  may  exercise  any  other 
applicable right under the GDPR in relation to that data. Furthermore, data portability right shall not 
prejudice the right of the data subject to obtain the erasure of personal data and the exercise of this 
right shall not be used to delay or refuse any request to erase such data under the GDPR’s right to 
erasure. 

For example, if a player is undergoing a self-exclusion period, but he/she submits a request to have 
his/her data sent over to another operator, in addition to including the self-exclusion data within the 
set of data, the operator must remain compliant with its responsible gaming obligations. To this end, 
an operator who receives such a request from a player undergoing self-exclusion should ensure that 
responsible-gaming professionals within its operation make contact with the player, and refer such 
player to responsible-gaming bodies, or problem-gambling treatment facilities, in accordance with the 
respective gaming laws. 

The right to data portability shall not adversely affect any rights and freedoms of other individuals. 
Therefore, if a set of personal data concerns data pertaining to more than one data subject, his/her 
right to receive that data should not prejudice the rights enjoyed by the other data subject under the 
GDPR.  If  an  Operator  were  to  receive  a  player’s  personal  data  from  another  controller,  and  this 
includes  data  relating  to  a  third  person  which  the  player  would  have  provided  to  the  latter,  the 

                                                           
10 Recital 68 of GDPR. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 15 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

receiving Operator may not use such information to enrich the profile of such a third party data subject 
without his knowledge and consent11.  

Upon delivery the personal data, the Operator sending the data is responsible for taking all the security 
measures  needed  to  ensure  not  only  that  personal  data  is  securely  transmitted  (end-to-end 
encryption)  to  the  right  destination  (by  the  use  of  strong  authentication  measures),  but  also 
continuing to protect the data that remains in their systems. The Operators should assess the risks 
linked  with  data  portability  and  take  appropriate  risk-mitigation  measures,  such  as  authentication 
mandate in cases of direct transmission to another data controller12. 

It  is  recommended  that  all  controllers  implement  tools  which  enable  the  respective  data  subjects 
exercising this right to exclude, where relevant, the data of other individuals.  

Operators must inform all players of the existence of this new right to portability (i.e. it shall be made 
explicit within the privacy policy). It is recommended that this is done at registration stage, when the 
player is entering into a contractual relationship with the Operator, and thereby providing personal 
data.  If  the  player  provides  additional  data  at  a  later  stage,  or  if  the  data  has  been  forwarded  by 
another individual, the Operator must communicate the said right to the player as soon as possible. 
Operators should distinguish the  precise  nature of the  data which is subject to this right. It is also 
recommended that Operators notify the players of this right upon receiving a request to close the 
player account.  

Upon  receiving  a  request, Operators  are obliged  to  reply  “without  undue  delay”  and  in  any  event 
“within  one  month of  receipt  of the  request.”13  This also  includes  instances  wherein  the  Operator 
denies such a request. In such a case, the Operator is to inform the player with regard to the “reasons 
for not taking action and on the possibility of lodging a complaint with a supervisory authority and 
seeking a judicial remedy.14”  

It is not permissible to charge a fee for compliance with such a request, although if an Operator can 
demonstrate that the requests are manifestly unfounded or excessive, then a fee can be considered. 
However,  it  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  group  of  European  data  protection  authorities,  the 
Working Party ex. Article 29 (in the following "WP29") recognised in its Guidelines that the setting up 
of  an  API  facilitates  these  exchanges,  and  it  is  unlikely  that  any  requests  would  be  considered 
“excessive”. As a general rule, therefore, Operators should steer clear of seeking to charge any fees in 
this regard. 

Interestingly, this right is also applicable to players who share gameplay footage. Having said that, it 
does not appear this right results in a requirement to retain personal data beyond the usual retention 
period, therefore if a platform’s approach is to only stream live play-through footage, and to delete 
such footage from the servers once the play-through is complete, then there is no obligation on the 
platform to retain the data.  

                                                           
11 WP 29 Guidelines on Data Portability, page 12. 
12 WP 29 Guidelines Data Portability, page 19. 
13 Article 12(3) of GDPR. 
14 Article 12(4) of GDPR. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 16 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

Data  processors  are  contractually  obliged  to  assist  controllers  “by  appropriate  technical  and 
organisational measures” with regard to responding to data portability requests. It is advisable that 
processors and controllers consider the setting up of specific procedures in relation to such requests.  

It should be noted that WP29 Guidelines stress that if a player makes it clear that he/she is making a 
request not under the GDPR, but rather under any other sectorial legislation, such as the Payment 
Services Directive 2, then the access should be granted according to such sectorial legislation, and not 
the GDPR’s data portability provisions15. It is evident that any interplay between rights would need to 
be assessed on a case-by-case basis, however, it is recommended that guidance is sought from the 
Operator’s  Lead  Supervisory  Authority  in  any  instances  wherein  the  GDPR’s  data  portability 
requirements  conflict  with  other  access  and  portability  requirements  or  member  state  legislation. 
Operators should not automatically assume that sector-specific legislation automatically displaces any 
GDPR right. 

5.8 

Right to Object 

Data subjects have the right to object to: 

a)  Processing based on legitimate interests or the performance of a task in the public interest or 

in the exercise of official authority;  

b)  Direct marketing, including profiling to the extent that it is related to such marketing activities; 

and  

c)  Processing for scientific or historical research purposes or for the purpose of statistics. 

Following an objection, the controller may no longer process the personal data unless the Operator 
demonstrates compelling legitimate grounds which override the interests, rights and freedoms of the 
data subject or in order to establish, exercise or defend legal claims. However, it is the controller who 
bears the burden of proof for demonstrating such compelling interests that override the rights of the 
data subject and the data subject is therefore not precluded from objecting. 

If a player objects to processing for direct marketing purposes, B2C licensees must stop processing the 
personal  data  for  such  purposes  as  soon  as  the  objection  is  received;  there  are  no  exemptions or 
grounds to refuse. In the case of the use of information society services, the data subject may exercise 
his right to object by automated means using technical specifications.  

A B2C licensee always has the right to terminate a player’s account (in accordance with the regulations 
and procedures mandated by respective gaming laws to which the licensee is subject) in the event 
that it would not like to proceed with offering the gaming service once it has received such objections, 
particularly in relation to processing based on legitimate interests, if this were to significantly affect 
the service it would provide to the particular player in question, or to its customers in general. 

The right to object must be clearly brought to the players’ attention. The player is to be informed of 
this right at the time of the first communication, and within the B2C licensee’s privacy policy, and this 
is to be presented to him/her clearly and separately from any other information. 

If any of the processing activities are carried out online, the data subjects must be offered a way in 
which to object online. 

                                                           
15 WP29 Guidelines on Data Portability, pages 7-8. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 17 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

6  Automated Decision-Making and Profiling 

Profiling is a procedure that includes any form of automated processing of personal data which may 
involve a series of statistical deductions. It means gathering information about an individual (or group 
of  individuals)  from  different  sources  and  evaluating  their  characteristics  or  behaviour  patterns  in 
order to place them into a certain category or group to analyse and/or make predictions about, for 
example, their ability to perform a task, preferences, interests or likely behaviour. 

Automated decision-making has a different scope, and may partially overlap with profiling, but such 
decisions  can  be  made  with  or  without  profiling,  and  profiling  can  take  place  without  making 
automated  decisions.  However,  something  that  starts  off  as  a  simple  automated  decision-making 
process could become one based on profiling, depending upon how the data is used.  

As a rule, in order to prevent individuals from being subject to decisions taken by machines that could 
influence  their  lives,  article  22  of  the  GDPR  prohibits  fully  automated  individual  decision-making, 
including profiling, that has a legal or similarly significant effect.  

Within the gaming industry, an automated-decision is said to have legal effect if, for example, it results 
in the player being subjected to surveillance by a competent authority. An automated-decision is said 
to similarly significantly affect a data subject if the decision has the potential to significantly influence 
the circumstances, behaviour or choices of the individuals concerned.  

However,  there  are  exceptions  to  the  rule  and  notably,  Recital  71  of  the  GDPR  specifies  that 
automated  decision  making  and  profiling  are  allowed  where  expressly  authorized  by  Union  or 
Member State law to which the Operator is subject, and this would include fraud, tax evasion and 
suspicious betting pattern reporting.  However, even though such processing may be mandated by 
law, it is highly recommended that Operators dedicate an element of human intervention in making 
decisions about players which have a legal or similarly significant effect on the player, such as refusing 
him as a player, or reporting him to the Authorities and there should be measures in place to safeguard 
the data subject’s rights, freedoms, and legitimate interests, for example by informing them within 
the privacy policy (as explained in Section 5 above).   

If an Operator would still like to proceed with such automated decision making, it could seek a player’s 
specific and explicit consent, and this would also serve as an exception from the prohibition. 

If  an  automated  process  produces  what  is  in  effect  a  recommendation  concerning  a  player,  but  a 
human being within the Operator’s organisation reviews, and takes account of other factors in making 
the final decision, then that decision is not ‘based solely’ on automated processing, and is not captured 
by the prohibition under Article 2216. It should be noted that if no human has any decision-making 
power, irrespective of whether said human is otherwise involved in the decision making process, such 
as by scanning decision-relevant documents, the prohibition still applies. 

7  The Controller-Processor Relationship 

The GDPR imposes a high duty of care upon controllers in selecting their personal data processors. 

                                                           
16 WP 29 Guidelines on Profiling, page 9. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 18 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

The controller should only contract with processors providing sufficient guarantees, in particular in 
terms  of  expert  knowledge,  reliability  and  resources  to  implement  technical  and  organisational 
measures that will meet GDPR requirements, including for the security of processing. In other words, 
Operators  shall  only  choose  processors  that  comply  with  the  GDPR,  or  they  could  risk  penalties 
themselves. The controller-processor relationship should be governed by a contract or other legal act, 
binding the processor to the controller, which, inter alia, sets out the subject-matter and duration of 
the processing, the nature and purposes of the processing, the type of personal data and categories 
of data subjects, the manner in which the processor will report any data breaches to the controller, 
the steps which will be taken by the processor to secure the data, the specific tasks and responsibilities 
of the processor and the  risk to the  rights  and freedoms of the  data subject. Both controllers and 
processors must ensure that the contract laying down the terms for their service is in line with the 
GDPR. 

Gaming Operators, as controllers, must therefore ensure that cloud services providers only process 
personal  data  for  the  purposes  as  initially  agreed  in  their  controller-processor  agreement  and  as 
identified with the data subject. 

If the processor wishes to engage another processor, which may be referred to as a “sub-processor”, 
the processor must obtain the prior approval of the controller. This applies even if you have a general 
consent to sub-contract, so as to give the data controller the opportunity to object. In this case, the 
same data protection obligations set out between the controller and the processor must apply to the 
relationship  between  the  processor  and  sub-processor.  If  the  sub-processor  fails  to  fulfil  its  data 
protection obligations, the initial processor remains fully liable to the controller for the performance 
of the sub-processor's obligations17. In respect to the relationship between Operator and affiliate, the 
latter should be instructed not to engage another processor (i.e.: another sub-affiliate) without prior 
specific or general written authorization of the controller - i.e. the Operator. The GDPR allows more 
flexibility in appointing sub-affiliates, but such flexibility still requires that Operators must be able to 
have at any time a full picture of the data processing activities performed on their behalf 

Where two or more  controllers  jointly determine  the  purposes  and means of processing, they are 
considered to be joint controllers. Together, in a transparent manner, they determine their respective 
responsibilities for compliance with the GDPR. As detailed below, this could be the case with affiliates, 
for example. 

Controllers of personal data, and where applicable, the controller's representative, must also maintain 
a record of processing activities under their responsibility18. On the other hand, processors of personal 
data, and where applicable, the processor's representative, must maintain a record of all categories 
of processing activities carried out on behalf of a controller. Each controller and processor should be 
obliged to cooperate with the Information and Data Protection Commissioner (in the following "IDPC") 
and make those records available to it on request. 

7.1 

Affiliates 

Affiliates may be both processors and controllers. Their classification depends on the nature of the 
processing  which  they  carry  out.  It  could  be  said  that  an  affiliate  who  reaches  out  to  prospective 
players and proceeds to provide those customers to an Operator, has complete autonomy over the 
processing of the customers’ data, and is hence a controller. When an affiliate solely acts on behalf of 

                                                           
17 Article 28(4) GDPR. 
18 Article 30 GDPR. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 19 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

the Operator, by driving  traffic  towards that Operator, and when such an affiliate would not  have 
otherwise been processing that data had it not been for his relationship with the Operator, then that 
affiliate is acting as a processor. There are situations where affiliates are acting as both controllers and 
processors  in  the  course  of  conducting  marketing  activities.  This  may  be  the  case  when  affiliates 
compile their own mailing list and then use it to send promotional material on behalf of operators. 
There is also the possibility that the Operator and its affiliate are considered to be joint controllers, if 
they are deemed to be jointly determining the purposes and means of processing.  

Therefore, in the case of a breach, one would need to determine the precise nature of the processing 
being carried out by the affiliate when the breach was made, however, the GDPR introduces liability 
for both processors and controllers, thus lessening the impact of determining whether an affiliate is a 
controller or a processor. However, the LSA is the body which will ultimately determine the precise 
role of an affiliate in coming to a conclusion. It must be reminded that under Malta’s gaming laws and 
regulations, both a licensee and a third party carrying out marketing can be found responsible for any 
breach, and a breach by a third party carrying out a function on behalf of a licensee may nevertheless 
affect the standing of a licensee with the Authority.  

To this end, it is being reminded that licensees are to ensure that the contents of their agreements 
with affiliates and third parties alike, reflect the responsibilities required by both entities, and demand 
compliance  with  gaming  and  data  protection  legislation.  Together  and  in  a  transparent  manner, 
Operators and affiliates should determine their respective responsibilities for compliance with gaming 
laws and with the GDPR. 

The main principles of the matter just examined above, can be summarized as follows: 

1.  Players can file direct claims for breach of their privacy rights against both Operators and their 

gaming affiliates if the breach is the result of the conduct of affiliates. 

2.  Gaming  affiliates'  liability  arises  if  they  did  not  comply  with  the  obligations  imposed 
specifically on them directly by the GDPR, or by the lawful instructions of the Operator, when 
acting as processors. 

3.  Depending on the affiliate model, the operator, the affiliate or both will have the burden of 

proof to demonstrate compliance with the data protection law. 
In case of more than one Operator or affiliate, each of them may be found liable for damages. 
4. 
5.  Gaming affiliates are responsible for the conduct of the sub-affiliates appointed by them (i.e. 

of the network of affiliates reporting to a "master" affiliate). 

7.2 

Security measures 

When acting as processors, affiliates are obliged to notify any data breach to the Operator without 
undue delay after becoming aware of a personal data breach. However, since Operators are obliged 
to notify data breaches to the LSA not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, if an affiliate 
is not able to identify and does not notify a data breach to the Operator within less than 72 hours from 
its occurrence, it might be considered to be evidence of a lack of compliance with GDPR. 

In those cases where an affiliate suffers a data breach in relation to its own records (e.g. marketing 
database), for which it is responsible as a data controller, such affiliate shall notify the breach to the 
supervisory authority within 72-hours from becoming aware of the breach. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 20 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

8  Marketing 

8.1 

Unsolicited marketing 

Maltese gaming laws prohibit any Operator from engaging in any activity that involves the sending of 
unsolicited  commercial  communications,  whether  it  is  through  its  own  operation  or  by  the 
intervention of third parties. 

8.2 

Solicited Direct Marketing 

Operators,  and  any  third  party  engaged  by  the  operator,  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  the 
processing of data for the purpose of direct marketing is based upon an appropriate legal basis as 
required within the GDPR.  In the case of marketing communication sent by electronic means, the 
processing must comply with the rules of Directive 2002/58/EC (transposed in national law by virtue 
of  S.L  440.01)  which  will  eventually  be  superseded  by  the  ePrivacy  Regulation.  These  guidelines 
suggest the following set-up19:  

The registration screen of every operator, besides requiring registering players to agree to terms and 
conditions, should also include a tick-box which enables the said individuals to opt-out of receiving 
marketing communications from the same operator, or from any processor processing player data on 
the Operator’s behalf for the purposes of sending out any marketing communications. This approach 
is  commonly  referred  to  as  opt-out  or  soft  opt-in.  Where  the  opt-out  approach  is  adopted,  the 
operator  or  a  processor  engaged  for  such  purposes  shall  only  send  marketing  communication  in 
relation to similar products or services for which the individual made initial contact. 

A separate tick-box seeking the registering player’s opt-in consent is required if the Operator will be 
transferring to or sharing that data with any third parties, including to any other data controllers within 
the same group of companies, as well as to receive marketing communications from the said third 
parties. 

8.3  Marketing carried out by third parties, including by affiliates 

When engaging affiliates  to conduct marketing activities on their behalf, Operators should have  in 
place a due diligence process, which includes the assessment of their data protection practices, the 
consent  mechanisms  for  direct  marketing,  including  documented  evidence  to  prove  consents,  the 
privacy policy and the provision of unsubscribe options. Such procedures shall also be monitored on 
an ongoing basis in order to ascertain that the entrusted affiliates are complying with the applicable 
data protection laws.  

Furthermore, when a communication is sent by an affiliate on behalf of an operator, this should be 
made clear to the data subject, and such communication shall facilitate an easy opt-out method. 

9  Data Retention 

The period for which the personal data is stored should be “limited to a strict minimum.20” The impact 
of the GDPR on the retention of personal data is particularly problematic in the gaming industry in 
                                                           
19 Kindly be reminded that the below should not be interpreted to mean that this is the only correct manner in 
which this processing can be carried out. Neither is it guaranteed that every supervisory authority will adopt 
the same interpretation. 
20 Recital 39 GDPR. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 21 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

light  of  legal obligations  imposed on  gaming  Operators  by various  legal  instruments,  and separate 
rules and obligations. Operators are required to specify “the period for which the personal data will 
be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period21” within their privacy 
policy. In compliance with the so called “risk based approach” Operators shall be able to justify the 
data retention periods that have been determined on the basis of the criteria. 

Operators therefore have the obligation to determine the relevant data retention period. There is no 
one  period  which  is  suitable  for  all  Operators,  nor  for  all  players  registered  with  the  different 
Operators, and the applicable period depends on the type of data which is being processed, and the 
purposes for that processing. As general guidance, however, data pertaining to a player who closes 
his/her account with a gaming company, and who is not undergoing an indefinite self-exclusion period, 
should not be retained beyond the years mandated by applicable AML/CFT legislation, unless there is 
justification for doing so. An example of such justification includes the suspicion that such a player has 
been involved in organised crime by virtue of his/her gaming activities, while the fact that such a player 
has  abused  of  bonus  schemes,  or  was  otherwise  fraudulent,  is  not  considered  as  justification  for 
retaining the data beyond AML/CFT requirements. In order to determine the correct data retention 
period only the purposes, not instruments, of the processing must be taken into consideration. 

For example, in order to determine the correct data retention period in the case of processing personal 
data by e-mail, the Operator shall take into consideration only (i) the categories of personal data; (ii) 
the  purposes  of  the  processing;  (iii)  the  type  of  business  in  which  the  company  operates.  The 
functionality  of  the  email  software  (which  is  precisely  a  tool  and  not  a  purpose)  has  no  legal 
significance. 

A policy on the retention applicable to different categories of personal data shall be adopted in line 
with the principles of the GDPR. The policy shall outline: (i) mandatory retention requirements; (ii) 
how and when data should be deleted or anonymised; (iii) the security measures which should be 
adopted as part of such activity. 

Once the periods are determined, Operators must set up a data management system, made up of 
technical  and  organisational  measures  which  enable  the  company  to  comply  with  other  GDPR 
obligations  in  relation  to  that  data,  including  data  minimization,  data  portability  requests,  the 
management of data breaches, and the right of erasure.  

The  current  EU  Data  Protection  Directive  95/EC/4622  already  requires  Operators  to  minimize  the 
retention of personal data in identifiable form when this is no longer necessary for the purposes for 
which the data are collected or processed. The GDPR reiterates this principle23 while also requiring 
that personal data may be stored for longer periods insofar as it is processed for archiving purposes 
in  the  public  interest24,  subject  to  implementation  of the  appropriate  technical and  organisational 
measures required by the same Regulation. 

What this means for B2C Operators in the gaming industry essentially depends on the categories of 
personal  data  which  they  are  processing.    Additionally,  Operators  must  ensure  that  they  are  only 

                                                           
21 Article 13(2)(a) GDPR. 
22 Article 6(1)(e) Directive 95/EC/46. 
23 Article 5(1)(d) GDPR. 
24 As well as for scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1) 
subject to implementation of the appropriate technical and organisational measures required by this Regulation 
in order to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 22 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

holding data which is relevant and limited to what is necessary. The data should also be subject to 
periodic review in order to evaluate whether or not it is still justified to keep that data.  

Personal data of players who have had their accounts closed, or who have voluntarily closed their 
accounts, and who would be accepted as players by an Operator should they choose to re-register as 
players, should be erased or completely anonymised upon the lapse of any retention period mandated 
by law, such as anti-money laundering legislation. 

For example, a gaming operator holds personal data about its players. This includes details of each 
player’s  name,  surname,  date  of  birth,  bank  account  number.  The  gaming  website  uses  this 
information as part of its security procedures. It is appropriate for the gaming website to retain this 
data for as long as the player has an account with the website. After the account has been closed, the 
operator may need to continue holding some of this information only for legal or operational reasons, 
with the periods and the said reasons included within the privacy policy. 

9.1 

Right of Erasure 

The Right of Erasure, commonly known as the right to be forgotten, is granted to individuals who make 
a request to have personal data pertaining to them erased and free from further processing, only in 
the following circumstances: 

a)  the  personal  data  is  no  longer  necessary  for  the  purpose  for  which  it  was  collected  or 

processed; 

b)  the data subject withdraws consent, and there is no other legal ground for the processing;  
c)  the data subject objects to the processing and there are no overriding legitimate grounds;  
d)  the personal data was unlawfully processed;  
e)  the personal data has to be erased to comply with a legal obligation of the controller; and, or 
the personal data was collected in relation to the offer of information society services to a 
f) 
child.  

The  controller,  however,  is  not  bound  to  comply  with  a  request  for  erasure  if  the  processing  is 
necessary: 

a)  to exercise the right of freedom of expression and information;  
b)  to comply with a legal obligation or to perform a task carried out in the public interest or in 

the exercise of official authority; and, or  

c)  to establish, exercise or defend legal claims. 

Therefore, in line with the above requirements, such requests in relation to, inter alia, data pertaining 
to self-excluded players, data retained in order to prevent fraudulent players from re-registering with 
a  gaming  website,  or  from  re-entering  a  gaming  premises,  data  maintained  in  relation  to  sports-
betting integrity cases, or data maintained in order to fulfil an obligation maintained by any other law, 
such as money-laundering legislation, should generally not be entertained This is without prejudice to 
the data retention period determined on the basis of the criteria as explained above... 

However,  it  is  the  Operator’s  duty  to  erase  that  data  whenever  none  of  the  above  circumstances 
remain applicable. Furthermore, a request for erasure which cannot be upheld, should lead to a re-
examination of the relevant player’s profile, and any data which is unnecessary should be anonymised, 
pseudonymised or de-identified. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 23 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

For example, in case of impracticable deletion, alternative interventions could be envisaged, such as: 
(i)  access  to  copies  only  in  cases  of  emergency  and  restoration;  (ii)  preservation  of  supports, 
appropriately encrypted. 

10 The  Cross-Border  Processing  of  Personal  Data,  within, and  outside, 

the EU/EEA 

10.1 

Intra-Group Transfers of Personal Data within the EEA 

The free exchange of personal data between Member States is a fundamental aspect of the EU’s basic 
principles. This principle is also reflected in the GDPR, which excludes the restriction or prohibition of 
the free movement of personal data within the EU or EEA. In the case of intra-group data transfers, 
therefore, no other  particular restrictions apply. That  said, data transfers between different  group 
members require a legal basis and thus are regarded as any other transmission or disclosure under 
this point of view. 

The GDPR also recognises that controllers forming part of a group of companies can have a justified 
interest in transferring personal data within their group for internal administration purposes, including 
the processing of personal data of players and employees. So, even though there is no kind of "intra-
group privilege" under the GDPR, intra-group data processing is in any case facilitated to a certain 
extent.  Some  of  the  organisational  and material  requirements  can  be  implemented  in  a  simplified 
manner  by  the  group  entities.  On  the  other  hand,  group  entities  face  enforced  data  protection 
obligations if the processing activities of different controllers are linked, as this will require a careful 
allocation of responsibilities. 

10.2  Transfer of Personal Data outside the EEA 

The GDPR imposes restrictions on cross-border processing of personal data to non-EU countries or 
international organisations to guarantee the data subject’s adequate protection over his/her personal 
data.  

As a general rule, transfers of player data to a country outside the EU may take place where such a 
country  has  been  designated  as  one  which ensures an  adequate  level of  protection,  i.e.  Adequate 
Jurisdictions25. In summary, entities must verify in a two-step approach that this processing activity is 
covered  by  a  legal  basis  and  that  appropriate  safeguards  will  be  applied  to  such  transfer.  These 
safeguards, under the GDPR, shall provide for conditions for onward transfers that shall help to keep 
up an appropriate level of data protection similar to the one under the GDPR in case of such transfers. 

There are a number of instances, however, where data is to be processed outside the EU/EEA and 
where no ‘adequacy decision’ has been reached. This is equally applicable for the processing of data 
by cloud service providers, among others. In such cases, licensees transferring personal data to such 
countries must have the appropriate safeguards in place. 

a)  Model data protection clauses: At the time of publication of these Guidelines, the Commission 
has issued two sets of contractual clauses for data transfers from data controllers in the EU to 
data controllers established outside the EU/EEA, and for data transfers from controllers in the 

                                                           
25  At  the  time  of  publication,  The  European  Commission  has  so  far  recognised  Andorra,  Argentina,  Canada 
(commercial  organisations),  Faroe  Islands,  Guernsey,  Israel,  Isle  of  Man,  Jersey,  New  Zealand,  Switzerland, 
Uruguay and the US (limited to the Privacy Shield framework) as providing adequate protection. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 24 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

EU to processors established outside the EU.EEA. These clauses are available for download 
from  the  EU  Commission’s  website26.  The  use  of  the  model  clauses  does  not  prevent 
Operators or processors from adding to these clauses, provided that there is no contradiction 
between  the  clauses.  Therefore,  the  GDPR  does  not  tolerate  any  standard  format  data 
processing  agreements.  Operators  are  obliged  to  renegotiate  the  data  processing 
agreements. Indeed, GDPR provides for a detailed list of instructions that have to be contained 
in the relevant agreement. 

b)  Binding Corporate Rules ("BCRs"): where a member of the corporate group of a licensee is 
itself established outside the EU/EEA, and outside a country subject to an Adequacy Decision, 
the BCRs allow the transfer of personal data internationally within the same corporate group 
while ensuring that all data transfers are safe. The BCRs must contain: (i)privacy principles, 
such as transparency, data quality, security; (ii) tools of effectiveness (such as audit, training, 
or complaint handling systems); and (iii) an element proving that the rules are binding. Such 
BCRs are to be drafted by the licensee, meet the requirements set up in the working papers 
adopted  by  the  WP29  and  submitted  to  the  Lead  Supervisory  Authority  for  review  and 
comments. Once the BCRs have been considered as final by all the Data Protection Authorities, 
the licensee shall request authorisation of transfers on the basis of the adopted rules by each 
national Data Protection Authority. The  BCRs,  inter alia, define the group members’ global 
privacy  policy  with  regard  to  the  international  transfers  of  personal  data  to  those  group 
members located in third countries that do not provide an adequate level of protection.  

Concluding, in line with CJEU's jurisprudence27, Article 45 Section 2 of the GDPR lays down the relevant 
criteria  for  an  adequacy  decision  such  as  the  third  country's  data  protection 
legislation, 
implementation and supervision and its international commitments. Not all of the criteria have to be 
equally fulfilled, as an adequate level of data protection needs to be established by way of an overall 
assessment  of  the  specific  circumstances.  In  case  of  a  positive  outcome  of  such  assessment,  the 
European  Commission  may  adopt  an  adequacy  decision  by  way  of  an  implementing  act  that  shall 
provide for a mechanism of periodic review, specify its scope of application and, where applicable, the 
third country's Supervisory Authorities. 

10.3  Determining a Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) 

Since Operators are established in more than one EU/EEA Member State and consequently conducting 
cross border processing, Operators should identify the location of their main establishment, since the 
data protection authority within the said location shall be the competent authority to act as the Lead 
Supervisory Authority (LSA) for the purposes of Article 56 of the GDPR. For Operators whose main 
establishment is set in Malta, their LSA would be the IDPC. 

The main establishment  can  be  determined  as either  the  place  of  its  central  administration  in  the 
Union, or else in the jurisdiction where decisions on the purposes and means of the  processing of 
personal data are taken. In considering the latter, the establishment would need to have the power 
to have such decisions implemented in order to be able to be considered as the main establishment.  
Likewise, with regard to processors, the place of central administration shall be the processor’s main 
establishment, however if the processor does not have a central administration, the establishment 

                                                           
26 https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/data-transfers-outside-eu/model-contracts-
transfer-personal-data-third-countries_en. 
27 ECJ, ruling of 6 October 2015, Maximilian Schrems./Data Protection Commissioner, C-362/14. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 25 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

which carries out its main processing activities in the context of its activities shall be determined as 
the main establishment. 

It is not unlikely that a licensee finds itself having two LSAs, in light of the fact that there could be two 
main establishments identified by the licensee as establishments wherein decisions on the purposes 
and means of the processing of personal data are taken. It is advised, however, that in such instances 
licensees categorise and identify the data processing being undertaken in each establishment, and 
hence the nature of the processing falling under the respective remits of the separate LSAs, so as not 
to have more than one LSA supervising the same set of data processing, thus nullifying the benefits 
ensued by the one-stop-shop mechanism. As stated by Article 29 Working Party28 the GDPR does not 
permit "forum shopping": there must be an effective and real exercise of management activity in the 
member state identified as the organisation's main establishment. Organisations should be able to 
demonstrate to the LSA where decisions about data processing are actually taken and implemented, 
as they may be asked to prove their position. Furthermore, it should be noted that controllers without 
an establishment in the EU cannot benefit from the abovementioned one-stop-shop mechanism, but 
rather must deal with local supervisory authorities in every Member State they are active in, through 
their local representative. 

11 Data Protection Officers 

Every B2C gaming Operator must designate a DPO, since as a core activity, B2C Operators monitor 
individuals systematically and on a large scale. B2B Operators are not specifically required to appoint 
a DPO29, but some may find it useful to do so on a voluntary basis. 

Notably, it is highly likely than affiliates must also appoint a DPO, since here too, as a core activity, 
there is a possibility that the affiliate is monitoring individuals systematically and on a large scale. 

The role of the DPO may be held either by in-house employee, who knows the operational reality in 
which the processing take place and may also be outsourced, so long as he/she is designated on the 
basis of professional qualities, including expert knowledge of data protection law and practices, and 
the ability to fulfil the tasks laid down in Article 39 of the GDPR. A DPO may carry out more than one 
role within a controller’s organisation, however, it is imperative that the individual designated as DPO 
is not simultaneously undertaking any role which could be deemed to be conflicting with that of a 
DPO, such as the role of an MLRO, HR development manager or marketing analyst. In any case, it is 
recommended to have a clear allocation of tasks within the DPO team, identifying only one natural 
person able to act as a point of contact with the data subjects and the Supervisory Authority. 

A group of companies which are in possession of a corporate group licence30 may appoint a single DPO 
provided  that  he/she  is  “easily  accessible  from  each  establishment31”.  The  DPO  must  be  easily 
accessible by data subjects and the respective supervisory authority, as well as internally within the 
organisation. 

                                                           
28 WP 29 Guidelines for identifying a controller or processor’s lead supervisory authority, page 8. 
29 Unless such B2B operators also, as a core activity, monitor individuals systematically and on a large scale. 
30 Either a corporate group licence issued by the Malta Gaming Authority, or one granted by another EU/EEA 
jurisdiction which affords equivalent safeguards and requirements. 
31 Article 37(2) GDPR. 

Public 
 

` 

Page 26 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

For example, an optimal solution of the fulfilment of “accessibility”, required by Art. 37 par.2 of the 
GDPR could be represented by the usage of a multi-language telephone helpline or online portals, 
exclusively dedicated to privacy requests or complaints, if any. 

It must be noted that DPOs are not themselves personally responsible in case of non-compliance with 
the GDPR, but it is the controller and/or the processor who is required to ensure and demonstrate 
that processing is being carried out in line with the GDPR.  It must be noted that, DPOs and individuals 
carrying out DPO tasks are not allowed to be penalized or dismissed for their performance in executing 
the proper requirements of the GDPR.  

In such cases, Articles 37-39 of the GDPR will become applicable to such organisation, as though the 
appointment of a DPO had been mandatory. Otherwise, such companies may opt to employ staff, or 
appoint  external  consultants,  in  order  to  handle  data  protection  issues,  without  being  themselves 
designated as a DPO. In fact, in such cases, it should be made clear that the title of such employee or 
consultant is not DPO. 

For  example,  a  good  organisation  that  prevents  conflicts  of  interests,  could  be  represented  by  a 
privacy team composed by: (i) a Privacy Expert that monitors the compliance of the company with the 
GDPR, and who can report to the management, in case of major privacy issues; (ii) several Privacy 
Stewards within the relevant function/department that verify the correct use of the personal data and 
report to the Privacy Expert in case of issues relating to privacy. In any case, it is recommended to 
have a clear allocation of tasks within the privacy team. 

Upon  appointing  a  DPO,  whether  or  not  that  DPO  is  an  employee  of  the  organisation, 
controllers/processors must ensure that the relevant DPO is given sufficient autonomy and resources 
to carry out the task effectively (e.g. budget on annual basis to improve technical and organisational 
measures and/or training modules on privacy matter related). It must also be noted that the DPO is 
bound by secrecy or confidentiality concerning the performance of his/her tasks. 

In order to ensure that the DPO is accessible - whether internal or external - the DPOs contact details 
(i.e. information allowing data subjects and authorities to reach the DPO in an easy way) must always 
be  available,  and  updated.  Such  details  must  also  be  communicated  to  the  relevant  supervisory 
authorities, and to the Malta Gaming Authority, and to the employees of the organisation. It is not 
necessary that the name of the DPO is communicated to the data subjects by virtue of publication on 
the gaming website, or within the gaming premises. It is up to the data controller or data processor to 
assess  whether,  depending  on  the  specific  circumstances,  it  may  constitute  useful  or  necessary 
information. 

12 Accountability, Transparency and Good Governance 

Operators are expected to establish comprehensive yet proportionate governance measures that take 
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing and the risk to the rights and 
freedoms of data subjects. This includes the implementation of appropriate data protection policies 
as well as appropriate staff training, and internal audits of processing activities. These measures are 
intended to minimise the risk of breaches and ensure the protection of personal data. Although most 
organisations already have good governance measures in place, these new requirements necessitate 
the review of these policies and the addition of new procedures as required.  

Public 
 

` 

Page 27 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

Furthermore, in relation to the affiliates status, it is important to note that the review of conformity 
with  GDPR  of  such  gaming  affiliates  will  become  an  obligation  to  be  periodically  performed.  If  an 
affiliate is not able to ensure privacy compliance, Operators will be obliged to either terminate the 
relationship with it or take the risk of potential liabilities, as explained in Section 6 above. 

12.1  Data Mapping and Data Ledgers 

The GDPR places an increased emphasis on proving compliance with data protection rules. Gaming 
Operators will be required to maintain a record of data processing activities, associated policies and 
procedures. Unless this is already in place, Operators should create and maintain a detailed inventory 
of personal data.  

Without  such  an  inventory,  it  is  difficult  for  Operators  to  make  informed  choices  on  key  strategic 
decisions relating to GDPR compliance.  

The  GDPR  further  requires  that  gaming  affiliates  commit  to  make  available  to  the  controller  all 
information  necessary  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  its  privacy  obligations  and  allow  for  and 
contribute to audits, including inspections, conducted by the Operator or another auditor mandated 
by the Operator. 

This  obligation  is  reinforced  by  the  need  for  gaming affiliates to  keep  a  record of  all  categories  of 
processing  activities  carried  out  on  behalf  of  a  controller.  Therefore,  a  gaming  affiliate  that  might 
process personal data on behalf of several Operators, shall keep a separate record of the categories 
of processing activities carried out by each of his Operators. 

12.2  Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIAs) 

DPIAs constitute the process of systematically identifying potential privacy issues before they arise, to 
evaluate, in particular, the origin, nature, particularity and severity of that risk, and devise a way to 
mitigate it. This may also involve discussions with the relevant parties or stakeholders. This process 
may prove invaluable in determining the viability of future projects and initiatives, particularly with 
regards to new technologies. 

Where  a  type  of  data  processing  is  likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk  for  the  rights  and  freedoms  of 
individuals, the GDPR requires that the controller in question carries out a DPIA prior to the processing 
of the data, in order to assess the impact of the envisaged processing on the protection of the data. 
The IDPC will be publishing a list of risky processing in terms of Article 35(4) of the GDPR. 

If a DPIA carried out by a controller indicates that an envisaged processing would result in a high risk 
in the absence of risk-mitigating measures taken by the controller, the controller shall consult the SA 
prior to the processing. The obligations to carry out DPIAs and consult with SAs in relation to high-risk 
processing  operations  directly  apply  to  controllers  only.  But  processors  should  assist  controllers, 
where necessary and upon request, in complying with these obligations. 

12.3  Adherence to Codes of Conduct 

Codes  of  Conduct  are  a  means  for  specific  industry  sectors,  or  groups  of  organisations,  to  create 
sector-specific rules on the processing of personal data to improve overall compliance with EU data 
protection  law.  Draft  Codes  of  Conduct  must  be  submitted  to  the  IDPC,  or  any  data  protection 
supervisory  authority,  for  formal  approval.  Such  Codes  represent  an  important  component  of 

Public 
 

` 

Page 28 of 29 

Last updated May 2018 

broadening and adapting the tools for data protection compliance that controllers and processors can 
draw on, by way of a "semi self-regulating" mechanism. 

Codes of Conduct not only help by providing guidance on specific compliance issues, but they also 
provide evidence of compliance with the GDPR and can be listed as a positive factor in a DPIA.  

Non-EU/EEA organisations can adhere to approved Codes of Conduct as a lawful basis for cross-border 
data  transfers.  This  may  also  simplify  compliance  obligations  for  organisations  that  frequently 
exchange  data  with  other  organisations  in  the  same  industry.  Such  adherence  to  Codes  can 
demonstrate that non EU/EEA data importers (controllers as well as processors) have implemented 
adequate safeguards in order to permit transfers under Article 46 of the GDPR; transfers made on the 
basis of an approved code of conduct together with binding and enforceable  commitments of the 
importer to apply appropriate safeguards may take place without any specific authorization from a 
supervisory  authority  and  Codes  may  therefore  offer  an  alternative  mechanism  for  managing 
international transfers, standing on the same level as Standard Contractual Clauses. 

Licensees  are  also  encouraged  to  register  for  seal  and  certification  schemes  to  obtain  formal 
recognition of compliance with all, or a particular aspect, of EU data protection law. Guidelines will be 
issued  by  the  WP29.  That said,  certification  is voluntary. The competent  supervisory  authority  will 
approve criteria for a common certification, the so called European Data Protection Seal. 

 

Public 
 

` 

Page 29 of 29 

