  

GREEK EMPIRE
 

 

PRINCIPLE OF PROTECTION OF E OMEN
 

 

 

OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

 
 

Athens, 09-11-2018
 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/7022-2/09-11-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 
     

     

 

A P O F A S I NO. 67/ 2018
 

    

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department following an invitation from its President to its headquarters on Wednesday 7-11-2018,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to examine the case referred to in the present history.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

They were attended by the Deputy President, Georgios Batzalexis, who was in his way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the President of the Authority, Constantos Menoudakos, Constantos Lambrinoudakis,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regular member, and the alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis, as rapporteur, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Grigorios Tsolias, replacing the regular members Antons Symvonis and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charalambou Anthopoulos, respectively, those who, although only summoned in writing, did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attended due to obstruction. The meeting was attended by the order of the President
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Georgios Rousopoulos and Constantos Limniotis, expert scientists – auditors, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant lecturer. Irini also attended, by order of the President
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Administrative Department of the Authority, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It was submitted to the Authority by the company "DIMERA GROUP EMPORIO
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTING GOODS SOLE INDIVIDUAL LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY"
 

 

 

 

 

 

(hereinafter, DIMERA) the no. prot. C/EIS/7022/27-08-2018 notification of incident
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data breach, according to art. 33 of the General
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation - hereinafter, GDPR).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

According to the notification in question, the incident involved a security attack or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which was the result of malicious external action ("hacking"). The one in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incident, which was no longer ongoing at the time of its submission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disclosure, results in a breach of data confidentiality
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the company's customers. DIMERA submitted the above notification to the Authority within 72
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hours from the moment he became aware of the incident. In this notice – the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its detailed information as described in its confidential appendix
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present – describes the type of personal data of which n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

confidentiality was breached, the number - approximately - of those affected by it
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incident of individuals, the number of affected files with personal data, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security measures that had been implemented before the said incident as well as the measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which were taken immediately after the incident with the aim of its effectiveness
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

treatment. Furthermore, the notification describes the way in which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIMERA became aware of the incident, the assessment made by DIMERA is recorded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

acted as to the seriousness of this, while it is also stated that DIMERA will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inform the data subjects whose data has been leaked.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To this end, it is pointed out that the updating process has already started at the time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the notification in question was submitted to the Authority and with its completion it will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

followed by the submission of a supplementary notification.
  

 

 

 

 

Subsequently, DIMERA submitted the supplement no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EIS/7098/30-08-2018 notification about the incident in question. With this news
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notification – the detailed information of which is further described in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

confidential annex hereto – the number of which is specified
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of affected persons, copies of the electronic messages are attached
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mail with which the persons in question received personalized information from the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIMERA for the incident in question as well as guidance on the actions to be taken
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their turn to do so as not to be affected by the incident in question, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also, it is presented with an enriched - in relation to the initial disclosure - in
 

    

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technical measures adopted by DIMERA after the incident in question.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Based on the information contained in the above two notifications, the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sent DIMERA the no. prot. C/EX/7022-1/21-09-2018 document requesting
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarifications on issues related to the measures that were in force before the incident
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order for such events to be detected in time, as well as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more specific topics of our specific treatment (such as what exactly was the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

underlying information flow of DIMERA's customer data as follows
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

used its online service, clarification of various techniques
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

issues in relation to updated or non-updated versions of internet protocols
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sure let's etc.). DIMERA replied to the Authority with the no. original G/EIS/7789/02-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10-2018 document, in which he provided clarifications on these issues.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

More detailed information on the above documents is described in the confidential
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

annex hereto.

 

 

       

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, after listening to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteurs, who then left
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

before conference and decision, and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. The GDPR, which replaced Directive 95/56/EC, has been in force since 25
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 2018. Article 4 of the GDPR states that "personal data" yes yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"any information concerning an identified or identifiable natural person (subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data)". In the same article, it is also defined as processing "each act or series."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

operations carried out with or without the use of automated means, in data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature or in sets of personal data, such as collection,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

record, organize, structure, store, adapt or change,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

retrieval, information search, use, communication by transmission, dissemination
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any other form of provision, association or combination, limitation, deletion or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

destruction". Furthermore, anyone (the natural or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal person, public authority, agency or other body) which, "alone or jointly with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

another, determine the purposes and manner of processing personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character".
 

In the second article, the breach of personal data is defined as "
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

breach of security leading to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unauthorized disclosure or access to personal data transmitted,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stored or otherwise processed'.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. The principles governing the processing of personal data are defined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in article 5 para. 1 of the GDPR – among them, as indicated in article 5 para. 1
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

item in this, personal data are processed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

way that guarantees the appropriate security of personal data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

among others their protection from unauthorized or illegal processing and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate techniques or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality"). Further, in paragraph 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the second article, it is stated that the person in charge of processing shall bear the responsibility and yes to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

position to accept compliance with paragraph 1 ("accountability").
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. According to article 32 of the GDPR, "taking into account the latest developments, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implementation cost and nature, scope, context and purposes of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, as well as the risks of different possible outcomes and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing and the processor apply appropriate technical and organizational
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measures to ensure an adequate level of security against risks,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

including, among others, in case of: (...) d) procedure for t n tactics
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

testing, evaluation and evaluation of technical and organizational effectiveness
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measures to ensure the security of the processing". Moreover, in paragraph 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of this, it is stated that "according to the assessment of the appropriate level of security
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the risks deriving from the processing are taken into account in particular, especially from accidental or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

illegal destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data transmitted, stored or submitted by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

otherwise processed".
 

 

 

 

4. With reference to the incident of personal data breach, o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR sets specific obligations for data processors. Specifically,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in article 33 thereof, it is stipulated that in the event of a personal data breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nature, the controller shall notify us immediately and, if possible, within 72
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hours from the moment it becomes aware of the fact of the data breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature to the competent1 supervisory authority, unless the data breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature may not cause a risk to the rights and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

liberties of natural persons. When the notification to the supervisory authority does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carried out within 72 hours, accompanied by a justification for the delay.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In paragraph 3 of article 33, it is stipulated that this notification as a minimum: a)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

describes
 

the
 

nature
 

her
 

violation
 

data
 

personnel
 

character,
 

including, where possible, categories and approximate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number of affected data subjects, as well as the categories and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the approximate number of affected personnel data records
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                 
1 Taking into account article 55 of the GDPR regarding the competences of the supervisory authorities, responsible for the
 
 
 
due to the incident yes the Personal Data Protection Authority
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 

character, b) announces the name and contact details of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data protection or other point of contact from which they may be obtained
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more information, c) describes the possible consequences of the violation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data, d) describes the received or proposed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

taking measures by our processor to deal with the violation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data, as well as, where appropriate, mitigation measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its possible adverse consequences. In case and since it is not possible to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information is provided simultaneously, it can be provided gradually without
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unjustified delay.
 

 

According to article 34 of the GDPR, when the personal data breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character may put their rights and freedoms at high risk
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

natural persons, our controller shall immediately notify the violation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data to the data subject. In this
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notification clearly describes the nature of the personal data breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character and contain at least the information and measures referred to in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 33 paragraph 3 letter a b), c) and d) (see above). The announcement at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject is not required if any of the following are met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions: a) the person in charge of processing shall apply appropriate technical and organizational measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protective measures, and those measures were applied to those affected by the breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data, etc. as measures that make the data unintelligible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature to those who do not have permission to access them, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

encryption, b) the controller subsequently took measures to ensure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that it is no longer likely that a high risk will arise for the rights and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

liberties of data subjects, c) requires disproportionate efforts
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(in which case, in this case, a public announcement is made instead or there is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

similar measure to which data subjects are informed about you
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

efficient way).
 

 

5. In this case, DIMERA was our processor, v
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the meaning of art. 4 of the GDPR (see item 7 thereof). Further, from its elements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the case file shows that DIMERA complied with its obligations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data processors that derive from the aforementioned articles 33 and 34 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR regarding the management of personnel data breaches
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, given that:
  

 

 

a) submitted the relevant notification to the Authority, within seventy-two (72) hours from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

upon becoming aware of the incident,
 

 

 

 

 

 

b) the notification as a whole, as completed, provides all the information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

required under art. 33 of the GDPR,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c) immediately carried out an assessment of the risks for the affected subjects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data due to the incident and updated them, in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

what is provided in relation to art. 34 of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. DIMERA described in detail to the Authority the new measures it took, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incident, in order to counter the attack and create one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safer environment for the future. Besides, immediately as soon as DIMERA was informed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the incident, took actions both to investigate the generative causes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the incident as well as for taking appropriate measures in order to stop the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific attack for sure. Also DIMERA, in the aforementioned no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EIS/7789/02-10-2018 her document, states that before the incident in question she had
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deciding on the full adoption and implementation of technical and organizational measures, some
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of those that have already taken place. Further, DIMERA states that similar
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security attack, which was a new type of attack, other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

large businesses in Europe, especially during the period of the attack
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

surely it also took place against DIMERA – mentioning some specific ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases.
 

From the analysis of the security measures that DIMERA has taken before
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incident, compared to the measures taken after the incident, and taking
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also taking into account the way in which he became aware of this2, it follows that DIMERA –
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and he had already adopted technical security measures – he did not have the appropriate ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mechanisms for early detection of such type of security attacks and, by extension,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to prevent them as effectively as possible. Furthermore, he has not received it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary care to update the software used and immediately
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

application of its security updates. It should also be noted that by nature
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of our specific processing of personal data (as detailed in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

confidential annex hereto), it appears that a possible data breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

may put the rights and freedoms of individuals at high risk
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of persons – as was also the case in the present case – and, consequently, n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIMERA owed as our editor, taking into account these high
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                 
2 All relevant information is described in the confidential annex hereto
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6
 

risks, to implement
 

 

 

appropriate measures for
 

 

 

 

the treatment
 

 

their,
 

including the regular testing and evaluation of their effectiveness
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technical and organizational measures for the security of our processing. Therefore, based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these, there was a violation of the provisions of art. 32 of the GDPR and, consequently, of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fundamental principle of data security (art. 5 par. 1 item f of the GDPR).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. In view of the above violations found, and also taking into account
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that, on the one hand, the data controller acted promptly in dealing with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the incident in compliance with all the obligations arising from it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR regarding incidents of personal data breaches, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the other hand, that the security attack in question was a new type of attack, the Authority considers
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unanimously that he must exercise the right provided for in article 58 par. 2 sec. II GDPR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its authority, as stated in the operative part of the present, and the same is removed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the gravity of the violations.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

The Authority taking into account the above:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Addresses based on no. 58 par. 2 b' of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 attack
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at DIMERA GROUP TRADE OF SPORTING GOODS SOLE REPRESENTATIVE COMPANY
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LIMITED LIABILITY for the violation of the provisions of art. 32 of the Regulation
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(EU) 2016/679 and, by extension, of art. No. 5 par. 1 item in this.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Deputy President
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

 

George Batzalexis
  

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 

7
 

