

Bonn/Berlin, February 12, 2019


Press release 07/2019


  European data protection officers discuss Brexit
The February meeting of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) focused on the topic of Brexit and the consequences of an impending no-deal scenario. Other topics included the guidelines on codes of conduct and an administrative agreement as the basis for the international exchange of data in the financial sector.

In connection with the consequences of a no-deal Brexit, the EDPB has agreed on data protection information that will be published on the EDPB website. This explains what precautions affected companies and authorities must take to ensure that data transfers to Great Britain comply with the provisions of the GDPR.
The deputy BfDI, Jürgen H. Müller, who represented Mr. Kelber in the EDPB meeting, pointed out the major data protection risks of a no-deal Brexit in this context: If one does not actually agree on an exit agreement that also includes data protection regulations are made, from March 30, 2019 Great Britain will be a third country from the point of view of the GDPR. In order to transmit data to Great Britain in accordance with the law from this point in time, further special requirements must be met, which both companies and authorities should be thinking about now at the latest. Because one thing is clear: there will be no transitional period in which the data protection supervisory authorities can tolerate transmissions without appropriate protective measures.
Another decision with which the EDPB has set another important course for European data protection is the adoption of guidelines on codes of conduct. The latter are an important tool to facilitate the practical implementation of the sometimes very abstract rules of the GDPR - for example for certain industries. The specifications of the EDPB set a Europe-wide uniform framework for the creation of such guidelines.
Also important was the decision to issue an EDPB opinion on the draft multilateral administrative arrangement between the EEA securities and markets authorities and their international counterparts. The Administrative Arrangement sets out the conditions under which personal data may be transferred by EEA supervisors to their counterpart authorities in third countries in the context of securities supervision. The EDPB considers that these conditions are suitable to guarantee an adequate protection of the data. Taking this Opinion into account, national data protection authorities will now, at the request of their securities and markets regulators, authorize data transfers to third countries based on the Administrative Arrangement.
The EDPB is the EU body in which all national data protection supervisory authorities of the European Economic Area and the European Data Protection Commissioner discuss current data protection issues in order to ensure uniform application of the GDPR.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











