                                                           Legal cabinet

N/REF: 0070/2021

The consultation raises the adaptation to Regulation 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free circulation of these data (RGPD) and Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital, (LOPDGDD, on the condition that the consultant must have in
connection with the services provided to a third party.
Specifically, it deals with services to Communities of Owners, among which
are reading, maintenance and upkeep of meters, and issuance
of liquidations of water consumption and requests a pronouncement on whether
in relation to said provision of services that entails data processing
personal, must be considered responsible for the treatment or on the contrary
treatment manager.

I

In the first place, it is appropriate to go to the provisions of the RGPD that in its article 4
Sections 7 and 8 define the concepts of data controller and
manager, respectively.

7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly
with others, determine the purposes and means of processing; if the right of
the Union or the Member States determines the ends and means of
treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria
for their appointment, they may be established by the Law of the Union or of
the member states;
8) “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge”: the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body that processes data
personal on behalf of the data controller;

As already pointed out by the Group of Data Protection Authorities in article
29 of Directive 95/46/EC (GT29) in its Opinion 1/2010 on the concepts
of "data controller" and "processor", the concept
responsible was a functional concept aimed at assigning
responsibilities, indicating that “The concept of “responsible for the
treatment” and its interaction with the concept of “processor”
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

one

Legal cabinet

play a fundamental role in the implementation of Directive 95/46/EC,
since they determine who should be responsible for complying with the
data protection regulations and the way in which the interested parties can
exercise their rights in practice. The concept of data controller
data is also essential in determining national legislation
applicable and for the effective exercise of the supervisory tasks conferred on the
data protection authorities”.
Likewise, the aforementioned Opinion highlighted “the difficulties in implementing
practice the definitions of the Directive in a complex environment in which
many hypothetical situations involving the actions of those responsible and
data processors, alone or jointly, and with different degrees of
autonomy and responsibility” and that “The Group recognizes that the application
of the concepts of data controller and
data processor is becoming increasingly complex.
This is primarily due to the increasing complexity of the environment in which
use these concepts and, in particular, to an increasing trend, both in the
private and public sectors, towards an organizational differentiation,
combined with the development of ICTs and globalization, which can give
This leads to new and difficult questions being raised and sometimes
the level of protection of the interested parties is diminished”.
However, at the present time, it must be taken into account that the GDPR has
supposed a paradigm shift when dealing with the regulation of the right to
protection of personal data, which is based on the principle of
"accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as pointed out
repeatedly by the AEPD (Report 17/2019, among many others) and it is collected
in the Explanatory Statement of the LOPDGDD: "the greatest novelty presented by
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution of a model based,
fundamentally, in the control of compliance to another that rests on the
principle of active responsibility, which requires a prior assessment by the
responsible or by the person in charge of the treatment of the risk that could generate
the processing of personal data for, from said
evaluation, adopt the appropriate measures”.
Within this new system, it is the data controller who,
through the instruments regulated in the RGPD itself, such as the registration of
treatment activities, risk analysis or impact assessment on
the protection of personal data, must guarantee the protection of said
law by complying with all the principles contained in the
article 5.1 of the RGPD, properly documenting all decisions
that it adopts in order to be able to demonstrate it.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

two

Legal cabinet

Likewise, based on said principle of proactive responsibility, directed
essentially to the data controller, and in order to reinforce the
protection of those affected, the RGPD has introduced new obligations
required not only to the person in charge, but in certain cases, also to the
in charge of the treatment, who may be sanctioned in case of
non-compliance with them.
On the need to clearly determine the responsibilities of each
involved in the processing of personal data, Considering 79 of the
GDPR remember that

The protection of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties, as well as
the responsibility of those responsible and in charge of the treatment,
also with regard to supervision by the authorities
of control and the measures adopted by them, require an attribution
of the responsibilities under this Regulation,
including cases in which a controller determines the purposes and
means of treatment jointly with other controllers, or in
which the treatment is carried out on behalf of a person in charge.

Taking into account the foregoing, currently the Guidelines 07/2020 of the
European Committee for Data Protection (CEPD) on the concepts of
responsible for the treatment and in charge in the RGPD, assuming that the
concepts of responsible and in charge of the RGPD have not changed in
comparison with Directive 95/46/EC and that, in general, the criteria on
how to attribute the different roles remain the same (section 11),
reiterates that these are functional concepts, which are intended to assign
responsibilities according to the actual roles of the parties (paragraph 12),
which implies that in most cases the
circumstances of the specific case (case by case) according to their activities
rather than the formal designation of an actor as "responsible" or
"in charge" (for example, in a contract), as well as autonomous concepts,
whose interpretation must be carried out under the European regulations on
protection of personal data (section 13), and taking into account (section
24) that the need for a factual assessment also means that the role
of a data controller does not derive from the nature of an entity
that is processing data but of its concrete activities in a context
specific, so that the same entity can act at the same time as
data controller for certain processing operations and
as manager for others, and the qualification as responsible or manager
should be assessed with respect to each specific waste treatment activity
data.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

3

Legal cabinet

II

Having said the foregoing, in relation to the application of the regulations for the protection of
data to the Communities of Owners, the general criterion of this Agency has
been that they are responsible for the treatment, in their relations with
third-party service providers, and these, also in general and except
exceptions, they will be considered data processors.
This is deduced, for example, from the provision of the service performed by the
Property Administrator hired for this purpose. That is, when they act
on behalf of the communities of owners, are entitled to treat and
have the data of the co-owners that are necessary for the
ordinary management of community affairs, since they act in relation
with the communities they serve as caretakers
treatment.
Likewise, the communities of owners regarding the processing of data
of the comuneros are legitimated, for the purposes of the causes that
collects the RGPD, in compliance with a legal obligation in accordance
with the articles of the Horizontal Property Law (LPH).
In this regard, it is worth mentioning Report 97/2017, which indicates

This Agency has been indicating in its reports the condition of
responsible for the file or treatment held by the communities of
owners, as soon as they carry out various data processing of
personal character to comply with the obligations that
Law 49/1960, of July 21, on Horizontal Property, as well as
as to guarantee the adequate exercise by the owners of the
rights that correspond to them in the community. So the condition
responsibility falls on the community of owners, which is
who, through its governing bodies and, where appropriate, the board,
resolve on issues related to the community and that, in
such quality of responsible, will be subject to all those obligations and
duties imposed by Organic Law 15/1999 and its regulations on
development, as well as the responsibilities that according to said Law
are required.
For its part, the administrator, when said position is not exercised by
an owner, but, as allowed by article thirteen of the Law of
Horizontal property, by “individuals with professional qualifications
sufficient and legally recognized to exercise said functions” or
“Corporations and other legal entities in the terms established
in the legal system”, will act as “in charge of the treatment”,
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

4

Legal cabinet

referred to in article 3 g) of Organic Law 15/1999 and 5.1.i) of
its development regulations, that is, as the person who processes data
personal on behalf of the data controller.
(...) for the maintenance of the relationship of the various owners with
community of owners, it will be necessary for it to have
certain data of the owners, essential for that
can carry out its functions

Criterion also of the jurisprudence as stated in the Judgment of the Court
Supreme of March 25, 2014 relapse in the Cassation Appeal 3576/2011
that, although it deals with the publication on the data bulletin board
economic, builds the argument on the consideration of the
Community of Owners as responsible for the treatment and the
estate manager as manager.
In the specific case in question, we are dealing with a service that a
third lends to the Community of Owners.
Indeed, the installation and reading of individual meters or distributors of
cost is an obligation for the Communities of Owners that derives from the
Royal Decree 1027/2007, of July 20, approving the Regulation
of Thermal Installations in Buildings and Royal Decree 736/2020, of 4
August, which regulates the accounting of individual consumption in
thermal installations of buildings.
However, said meter reading may be carried out by the community itself if
has the means to do so, or where appropriate, contract with a third party as occurs in
most cases and in the supposed object of consultation. (article 6.2 of the
cited Royal Decree 736/2020).
It is, therefore, a service that the Community of Owners decides, prior
agreement and with the observance of the requirements that are applicable to
agreement with the LPH, hire a third party - in this case the consultant - the
provision of a service that entails the processing of personal data.

III

Taking into account the above, it is necessary to analyze the factual assumption that
derives from the consultation in relation to the criteria of the Directives 7/2020 of the
CEPD and the specific treatment involved in the provision of the service.
Regarding the analysis of the specific treatments, Report 64/2020 indicates that

In any case, a careful and in-depth analysis must be made of the
legal relationship established between the parties in order to identify who
determines the ends and the means, for which the repeatedly cited
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

5

Legal cabinet

CEPD guidelines give different criteria that can be used to set
said positions, starting from the fact that the word “determine” implies
actually exert an influence on ends and means, for which
it is precluded that the service is defined in a specific way by the
person in charge, provided that the person in charge is presented with a description
detailed and can make the final decision on the way in which
performs the treatment and be able to request changes if necessary,
without the processor being able to subsequently introduce changes in
the essential elements of the treatment without the approval of the
responsible (paragraph 28) or that a certain margin of
maneuver the manager to make some decisions regarding the
treatment (section 35) being able to leave to the person in charge the taking of
decisions on non-essential means (paragraph 39), so that the
The person in charge must not process the data in any other way than
in accordance with the instructions of the person in charge, notwithstanding that
such instructions may leave a degree of discretion as to how
better serve the interests of the controller by allowing the controller
choose the most appropriate technical and organizational measures (paragraph
78).
Likewise, another criterion to consider is whether the entity involved in the
treatment does not pursue any purpose of its own in relation to the treatment,
but simply paid for the services rendered, since, in
In this case, it would act, in principle, as a manager rather than as
responsible (section 60).
For this reason, although as indicated in our Report 11/2020, the figure
of the person in charge of the treatment obeys the need to respond
to phenomena such as the outsourcing of services by
companies and other entities, the CEPD recalls that not all
service providers that process personal data in the course of
the provision of a service is an "order" in the sense of the RGPD, since
that does not depend on the nature of the entity that is dealing with the
data, but of their concrete activities in a specific context, of
so that if the treatment does not constitute a key element of the service,
the service provider may be in a position to determine
independently the purposes and means of that processing that is
requires to provide the service, in which case it may be
considered as a person in charge and not as a person in charge, and, for the
to the contrary, but reiterating the EDPB that a
case-by-case analysis to determine the degree of influence that each

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

6

Legal cabinet

entity actually has to determine the ends and means of the
treatment (paragraph 80) since it will be able to continue acting as
in charge even if the processing of personal data is not the
main object of the service, provided that the customer of the service determines
the purposes and means of processing in practice (paragraph 81).

IV

Regarding the specific processing of personal data, according to the
consultant, the contracted service consists of "from the Community of
Owners, a list is sent with the identification data of the neighbors of
the farm to Ullastres so that it proceeds to read the meters or
cost allocators, and comply with the purpose of the provision of services that
they have been entrusted to him.(...) once the reading of the
accountants, Ullastres issues informative settlements on consumption to
the Community of Owners itself, being its president or the administrator
of farms that it has designated, to whom the consultant issues the invoice for the
contracted service. Consequently, it is this president or administrator of
farms, who receives the informative consumption settlements and a list
summary of them. Based on these settlements, the
amounts to be collected from each neighbor and that same President or
Administrator of the Community of Owners passes them to the collection (...)
internally, without any intervention on the part of Ullastres, which has already
proceeded with the assigned task.”
The consultant provides an Annex II referring to the contracting model of the
service object of analysis and that entails data processing
personal, and with respect to which the following aspects should be highlighted:
The consultant is instituted in parts on one side and the Community of
Owners referred to as CLIENT, and among the services it is indicated
“Reading, liquidation and maintenance service”.
For its part, clause 2.2 indicates that:
Once the reading is done and according to the measurements of each meter
divisional, settlements will be issued for each user (...) according to the blocks and
rates determined by the supplying company or indicated by the client,
Likewise, summary lists will be edited (...) that will be sent to the Client or to
who is expressly determined.
Clause 4.1 states that:

the agreed reading and maintenance fees will be paid by the
customer by direct debit (...)

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

7

Legal cabinet

Well, the first aspect to highlight is that the Community of Owners,
decides the contracting of the service and based on that premise exercises a
decisive influence on treatment.
Paragraph 24 of the Guidelines indicates that

In the absence of control derived from legal provisions, the qualification of
a party as controller should be established on the
basis of an assessment of the factual circumstances surrounding the
treatment. All factual circumstances must be taken into account
relevant to reaching a conclusion as to whether an entity
determined exerts a determining influence with respect to the
processing of personal data in question.

In effect, influence is derived because it chooses or determines the purpose of the
treatment, has agreed through the corresponding agreements, that the
meter reading and cost allocators is a service that you are going to hire,
and that goes through the communication of a list of personal data of the
neighbors for the corresponding reading, and once it has been produced, it will receive the
individual measurements and subsequently according to certain criteria,
proceed to collect them. There is therefore no doubt about the influence
has the Community in data processing revealed.
Secondly, and in relation to contracting the service, your
maintenance and subsequent modification, section 29 of the Guidelines
7/2020, tells us that

According to the factual approach, the word "determines" means that
the entity that actually exercises influence over the purposes and means
of the treatment is responsible. Normally, an agreement
manager establishes who the determining (responsible) party is and
the instructed party (in charge). Even if the manager offers a service
which is preliminary defined in a specific way, the responsible
must be presented with a detailed description of the service and
must make the final decision to actively approve the way in which
performs the treatment and to be able to request changes if necessary. What's more,
the maintainer cannot at a later stage change the items
essentials of the treatment without the approval of the person in charge.

In the present case, according to the consultant, she is not in
conditions of modifying the contracted service in the sense of changing
elements of the treatment, (which as we will see below is key in the
provision of the same) without the approval of the person in charge, since it would be a
unilateral modification of the contract.
c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

8

Legal cabinet

On the other hand, it must be taken into account that the treatment constitutes a
key element of the service, the service provider, the consultant, is not
in a position to independently determine the ends and means of
that treatment that is required to provide the service.
The aforementioned Guidelines give the example of hiring a
law firm to conclude that it will be held responsible for the
treatment, because treatment is not the key to the service, but to the
contracted service, data may be processed but it is not essential, and
that said firm will act with a significant degree of independence,
for example when deciding what information to use and how to use it, and there is no
customer instructions on the processing of personal data. The
treatment that the law firm carries out to fulfill the task of
legal representative of the company is, therefore, linked to the role
function of the law firm to be held responsible
of said treatment. Therefore, as indicated above, with character
In general, the Community of Owners is responsible for the treatment
when you contract the services of a third party, but it can happen, as in the
For example, this is not always the case.
In the case analyzed, data processing is a key element
of the service, both because a list is provided -with personal data-
to attribute a certain consumption, as for the information object of
treatment, in the sense that energy consumption in itself is a
information that should be considered personal data. This is indicated by the
Judgment of the Supreme Court of July 12, 2019 relapsed in the Appeal
of Cassation 4980/2018, based on the pseudonymization of the data of
CCH (hourly load curve database) and CUPS (universal code
of supply points) and the simple reversal and subsequent identification, therefore
that, if in that case they have that consideration, in the present case there will be no
doubt because consumption is expressly linked to the identity of the
individual owners.
Therefore, the processing of personal data is essential, and not
merely accessory, in the provision of the service.
In this regard, it is necessary to indicate another criterion proposed by the Report
64/2020, that the entity involved in the treatment does not pursue any purpose
own in connection with the treatment, but is simply paid for the
services provided, since, in this case, it would act, in principle, as
manager rather than responsible. That is, as happens in the
present case.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

9

Legal cabinet

Thirdly, the consultant does not establish direct relationships with the
owners, in the sense that, without prejudice to the specialties that
held by the Communities of Owners in relation to the comuneros, the
service is billed by the consultant to the Community of Owners
which is the recipient of the provisions of the Royal Decrees above
mentioned, in the case of the horizontal property regime and the one that decides
hire the service. This is the holders of the data subject to treatment
have a legal relationship with the consultant, but it is the Community that
that the service is provided to the owner of said relationship. In this aspect it is
It should be noted that, if the entity provided the service, for example, to a
private person, a single-family dwelling outside the LPH would be considered
data controller, as indicated in report 64/2020
referring to the assumption that an individual goes to the Post Office to lend him a
determined service.
Another aspect that deserves analysis is the contract in which the service is covered.
object of analysis. Regarding the contract, Guidelines 7/2020 indicate in their
paragraph 27 that

In many cases, an assessment of the contractual terms between
different stakeholders can make it easier to determine what
party (or parties) acts as responsible. Even if a contract saves
silence about who is responsible for the treatment, may contain
sufficient elements to infer who exercises a decision-making function
decisions regarding the purposes and means of processing. Too
it may be that the contract contains an explicit statement about the
identity of the person in charge. If there is no reason to doubt that this
exactly reflects reality, there is nothing against the stipulations
in the contract. However, the terms of a contract are not
decisive in all circumstances, since this simply
would allow the parties to assign the responsibility they deem
convenient. It is not possible to become responsible or avoid the
obligations of the person in charge simply by configuring the contract of
a certain way when the circumstances actually say something
plus.

In the case analyzed, in addition to the characteristics of the service that have been
revealed during this report, the contract contains a
Annex referring to the processing of personal data and that complies with the
provided in article 28.3 of the RGPD. It assigns responsibilities
and roles in terms of responsible and in charge and they do not exist or, at least of the

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

10

Legal cabinet

information and statements made by the consultant, can not
affirm that the reality of the service contravenes these roles.
Therefore, according to the information provided by the
consultant on the legal relationship with the Community of Owners that
covers the service under analysis, the former must be considered as
in charge of the treatment and to the aforementioned Community as responsible for the
treatment.
However, the indicated conclusion is for the sole purpose of the service
contracted derived from the analysis that has been carried out with the information
provided to the query, so depending on the specific case there may be
Other cases in which the consultant acts as responsible for the
treatment. Thus, for example, Report 64/2020 indicated that,

“Likewise, there may be cases in which Correos processes the data
for your own purposes, such as handling claims
of the recipient for a defective provision of the service and for the purpose of
demand the pertinent compensation, including the geolocation of the
shipment, or for the provision of additional services, such as the app
"Correos", in which it will hold the status of responsible".

v

Having said that, it is necessary to remember that the status of person in charge of the
treatment entails the fulfillment of the obligations that derive from the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD.
As indicated, the RGPD has introduced new enforceable obligations
not only to the person in charge, but in certain cases, also to the person in charge
treatment, who may be sanctioned in case of non-compliance with the
themselves.
In this regard, Guidelines 07/2020 of the European Committee for the Protection of
Data (CEPD) on the concepts of data controller and processor
in the RGPD make special reference (section 91) to the obligation of the
responsible for ensuring that the persons authorized to process data
personal data have agreed to respect confidentiality or are
subject to a confidentiality obligation of a statutory nature (article
28, paragraph 3); keeping a record of all categories of activities
of treatment carried out on behalf of a person in charge (Article 30.2); that of
apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of
security appropriate to the risk (article 32); to appoint a delegate of
data protection under certain conditions (article 37) and to notify
c. George John 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid

eleven

Legal cabinet

to the data controller without undue delay violations of the
security of the personal data of which it becomes aware (article 33
(two)). In addition, the rules on data transfers to third countries
(chapter V) apply to both those in charge and those responsible.
And for this reason, the EDPB considers that article 28 (3) of the RGPD imposes
direct obligations to those in charge, including the obligation to help the
data controller to ensure compliance.
Regarding compliance with the principles of treatment contained in the
Article 5 of the RGPD, it is appropriate to highlight those of limitation of purpose and
minimization.
Section 1 b) indicates that the data will be collected for specific purposes,
explicit and legitimate, and will not be further processed in a manner incompatible
for said purposes; according to article 89, paragraph 1, the treatment
subsequent use of personal data for purposes of archiving in the public interest, purposes of
scientific and historical research or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");
Indeed, the consulting entity may not use the personal data of
which you have access for purposes other than the provision of the
service. In this aspect it is necessary to remember what is indicated in article 33.2
of the LOPDGDD that provides that:
You will be considered the person responsible for the treatment and not the person in charge.
who in his own name and without stating that he acts on behalf of another,
establish relationships with those affected even when there is a contract or act
legal with the content set out in article 28.3 of the RGPD.
(…)
It will also have the consideration of responsible for the treatment who
appearing as manager used the data for their own purposes.
For its part, section 1 c) provides that personal data will be
adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization");
In the present case, it is necessary to show that in the contract
provided in clause 6 under the name "Clause for the protection of
data and confidentiality” in section 6.1 c) it is stated that the person in charge will treat
the following data: address, floor, name of the holder, name of the payer,
bank account, phone, email.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

12

Legal cabinet

Well, these seem to exceed the minimum necessary for the
provision of the service as described by the consultant. I mean, yes
the entity providing the service only needs to know the consumption by
dwellings, it would be enough either to assign an identifier to each one, or
know the data of the floor and door of the house. It is strange that
need data such as the name of the payer and bank account, when such
As stated repeatedly in the query, the service is billed to the
community of owners and not individually to each neighbor.
Just as there is no justification in the treatment of the telephone and the
e-mail, because in principle smart meters allow the
remote reading and failing that, it can be done outside the contact
individual with each neighbor because in practice the meters are in
a space enabled for this purpose by the community of owners, that is, outside
primarily to the owners.
In conclusion, the treatment of the data that has just been indicated does not seem
justified in relation to the service provided by the consultant in the terms
informed to this Agency and, therefore, would be contrary to the principle of
minimization.

c. George John 6
28001 Madrid

                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es

13

