
Under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Personal Data Protection Agency organized the 30th jubilee conference of European supervisory bodies (Spring Conference) in Cavtat on May 19 and 20.
In the presence of high-ranking guests, the President of the European Data Protection Board Andrea Jelinek, the European Data Protection Supervisor Wojciech Wiewiorowski, the representative of the President of the Croatian Parliament Mate Franković, the representative of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Sanjin Rukavina and 130 representatives from more than 40 countries, at the official opening of the Conference, Zdravko Vukić, director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, said: "This conference ensures that we can have a collective discussion at the European level and work together to achieve the same goal. Our common goal is the effective protection of the rights and interests of European citizens regarding data protection in a constantly changing world, in which the free flow of personal data between countries plays a key role for socio-economic growth in Europe. Another element that connects us and makes the Spring Conference unique is the fact that we are all connected by a human rights-based approach."
Envoy of the President of the Republic of Croatia and State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and Administration Sanjin Rukavina emphasized the importance of holding the Spring Conference. "The improvement of personal data protection at the European and global level, to which this Conference contributes, is of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia in the context of the preservation of European democratic values, the development of a single digital market and the free flow of data between the countries of the European Union and third countries."
The representative of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Member of Parliament and Mayor of the City of Dubrovnik, Mato Franković, welcomed the participants and said: "Proper management and protection of personal data is one of the most important concerns in today's digital world and requires constant attention and improvement, since new challenges appear regularly . I sincerely hope that the experiences shared between national authorities and participants will help to improve the entire field of data protection."
Member supervisory bodies have adopted a Resolution on the need for rapid ratification of "Convention 108+". The resolution calls on the governments of the member states of the Council of Europe, the governments of third countries and the European Union to speed up the process of signing and ratifying the Convention 108+.
Convention 108, more specifically the Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, is the only legally binding multilateral treaty at the international level for the protection of personal data. The Convention was amended and supplemented in May 2018 through an amended protocol and is approaching the key deadline for entry into force in 2023.
At the conference, the regulatory bodies also adopted a Resolution to ensure further continuity in the work of the Spring Conference, ensuring that it can continue to be successfully implemented in relation to all priority issues that are the subject of interest of the European data protection regulatory bodies.
At this year's Spring Conference, the European Committee for Data Protection was admitted as an observer, and the European Space Agency and the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner of Lower Saxony as members.
The conference was a unique opportunity for supervisory authorities from 40 European countries to discuss and exchange experiences on the problems they face, best practices and strategies for improving the area of personal data protection in Europe.
The spring conference is closed to members and observers only, and consists of 62 national and regional supervisory authorities for data protection, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, Europol, Eurojust and the Council of Europe. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has been a full member of the Conference with the right to vote since 2008 and is hosting this important event for the first time. It is an exceptional opportunity for supervisory bodies to discuss the problems they face, best practices and strategies, and to exchange experiences and gain new knowledge through panels and lectures by the most eminent experts in the field of personal data protection.
You can find more information at the link springconference2022.hr.






































































































































































