 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

711.422.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 24, 2020

 
  
Contact data collection as a corona containment measure - Berliner
Data protection officer provides sample forms

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information instructs Berliner
Traders point out that when collecting contact data from customers
Customers to track Corona contacts, data protection must always be maintained.
Running lists on which the contact details of the guests are open to third parties are available
inadmissible. As an aid, the supervisory authority for data protection on its
Website sample forms available.
 
The SARS-CoV-2 Infection Protection Ordinance, which regulates the SARS-CoV-2
Containment Measures Ordinance replaces catering establishments, establishments of the
Hairdressing trades and many other places in Berlin, information on contact tracing
to collect from guests or customers.
 
In practice, they are restaurant guests or customers of other commercial establishments
when entering the store, they are often asked to sign their names and their
Enter address data in ongoing lists, on which you also have the contact details of third parties
can see. This procedure is not permitted. When collecting data, the
Those responsible strictly ensure that customers do not have any insight into the
receive personal data of other guests. To ensure this, each
Enter the person on a separate sheet. The completed forms may
also do not lie around openly, but must be safe for the period of storage
remain protected from access by third parties. It is recommended, for example, a lockable box
set up, in which the completed forms are thrown. This box should be daily
be emptied in order to keep the forms sorted by days without additional effort and
to be destroyed in a timely manner.
 
In order to implement the measure in compliance with data protection regulations, guests must also comply with
Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation sufficient about the processing of their data
and their rights are informed. This may take the form of a brief privacy statement
carried out, which are either posted in a clearly visible manner in the entrance area or as a
information sheet is handed out individually. From this declaration, in particular,
show who is responsible for the data processing and to which ones
Legal basis it is based on, for what purpose and for how long the data is collected
who can access it and what rights those affected have.
 
The completed forms must be kept safe and after the retention period has expired
be securely destroyed on a daily basis, for example using a document shredder. It is not enough that
tearing up forms by hand. It is essential that those responsible bear in mind that the

 

Spokeswoman: Dalia Kues
Office: Cristina Vecchi
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin
 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 



- 2 -

collected data exclusively for the purpose of contact tracing in the case of
known infections are processed and, if necessary, to the responsible health authority
may be transmitted. Use of the data for other purposes, such as
Advertising would be illegal and can be punished with fines.
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
“As with digital contact tracing using a warning app, measures that
are used to manually track possible chains of infection, trust a
important requirement. If you have to worry that your data is not in good hands,
more prone to misrepresentation. I am aware that dealing with so
large amount of customer data is not part of the core business of restaurants or hairdressers
heard and the legal requirements therefore some uncertainties both in the
cause those responsible as well as those affected. For support we have
Sample forms are available on our official website. I recommend Berliners
those responsible to use them or to orientate themselves on their content."
 
 
The following sample forms are available at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/themen-a-bis-z/corona-pandemic.html ready for download:
 
-
-
 

Sample contact tracing form and
Data protection declaration for contact tracing by companies

