Notes on data protection

according to Art. 13 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
for mandatory contact tracking within the meaning of

SARS-CoV-2 Infection Protection Ordinance

Responsible body and contact details: i

If named, contact details of the data protection officer: ii

For the purpose of contact tracing and the traceability of infection chains for the
In the event that at the time of your visit a person is ill, suspected of being ill,
suspected of being infected or excreting within the meaning of
Infection Protection Act, we collect the following personal data from
You: last name, first name, full address or e-mail address, telephone number, time period
of your stay, possibly seat or table number.
The legal basis for this is Article 6 (1) (c) GDPR in conjunction with Section 3 of the Berlin SARS
CoV-2 Infection Protection Ordinance.
Your data will only be used for contact tracing purposes and not for others
processed for purposes such as advertising. Your data will only be used in the event of a
corresponding temporal and local connection with your visit to us for the purpose
transmitted to the responsible health authority for contact tracing. With us only have
the following internal recipients have access to your data: iii

Your data will be destroyed four weeks after your stay.
You are not obliged to provide your data, without collecting your contact data you can
however, no access will be granted.
As a person affected by this data processing, you have the rights of the data subject
DS-GVO, in particular you have the right to information about your data and theirs
Correction, erasure or restriction of processing. You can also register with
a supervisory authority, for example the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information (datenschutz-berlin.de), complain.

Sample text from the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (datenschutz-berlin.de), as of July 16, 2020

i

ii

iii

The responsible body is the operator of the restaurant, café, hotel, salon, studio etc
Full legal designation, in the case of natural persons the full name of the owner. As
Contact details must be given: street and number, postal code and town, if available telephone, fax, e-mail.
Most companies for which this template is intended are not required to appoint a data protection officer
to name. In this case, no entries need to be made here.
The job title(s) of the persons who have access to the data, e.g. B. owner,
Management, respective shift management, data protection officer/data protection officer.

