1/37

 Procedure No.: PS/00074/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 09/05/2019 a claim is received from A.A.A.. It states that the
08/02/2019 an MRI of the right knee was performed at the HOSPITAL CAM-
POGRANDE DE ***LOCALIDAD.1 requested through your private insurance ADESLAS. The
on the 27th of the same month, due to an accident at the workplace, "he was requested by the MUTUA
of the company” another MRI of the same knee in the SAGRADO HOSPITAL
HEART OF ***LOCALIDAD.1 (DIAGNOSTIC CENTER ***LOCALIDAD.1 S.A., re-
cried)

In the report of this second resonance, it turns out that it alludes to the first one, carried out on the day
2/08 for her private insurance, and when this second report reaches the MUTUA, "Dr.
who treats you tells you to contact your private doctor or Social Security, since they
they cannot consider the accident in the workplace as occupational, since there is a resolution
Previous MRI performed on the same part of the same limb.”

Indicates:

- “Since different entities have requested the magnetic resonance imaging, although
carried out in different centers of the same company, information has been given to a
entity of what I have done through another private entity. “

-“I understand that in the event of an imminent risk of something fatal happening, the information of
health must be taken into account, but this is not the case. There is no imminent risk of fa-
growth.”

“I understand that, although each company has the same clinical history in all its centers,
it is for the patient, not to be distributed to the different clients of that company.”

In the name of the claimed person, indicate CENTRO DE DIAGNÓSTICO ***LOCALIDAD.1 S.A.

Provides:

In a file called “***FILE.1”, in pdf, it contains a sheet of “information
a)
clinic” “rule out injury to the posterior horn of the external meniscus” Right knee MRI,
signed on 08/02/2019, “right knee study” In the left margin it appears “CENTRO DE
DIAGNÓSTICO CAMPO GRANDE S.L”, and on the left margin of the sheet the logo and the
literal “AFFIDEA”. Below the personal data of the claimant is the number of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/37

clinic history.

In a file called “***FILE.2”, in pdf, a sheet of “clinical information” is attached.
b)
nica”: “suspected internal meniscus injury”, right knee MRI, “magnetic resonance study
right knee” date 08/27/2019. In the findings section, it refers to a study carried out
previously because at the beginning it indicates "I compare with a previous study carried out on
08/02/2019” and in the medical analysis uses the word “no changes compared to the previous study”,
with comments such as: “a linear hyper-intensity of the signal is observed in the posterior horn
of the medial meniscus in relation to a cleft unchanged from the previous study” or “
significant improvement of the internal collateral sprain at the present time”, or the reference
to the anterior cruciate “without acute inflammatory changes”. In the left part it appears “CEN-
TRO DE DIAGNOSTICO ***LOCALIDAD.1 S.A.”, and at the bottom, the address and website,
affidea.es Below the claimant's personal data is the medical record number.
AC.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the claim was transferred to the DIAGNOSTIC CENTER
***LOCATION.1 S.A. on 10/24/2019, by the telematic system notific@ and there is notification
completed by carried out on 10/25/2019, without the request having been attended.

THIRD: On 02/21/2020, the claim is admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 06/04/2020, an agreement was issued to start the sanctioning procedure with
the verbatim:

“ FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE as indicated in the
article 58.2.i) of the RGPD to CENTRO DE DIAGNÓSTICO ***LOCALIDAD.1, S.A., with CIF
*** CIF.1, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5
of the LOPDGDD, as indicated in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: For the purposes provided in 58.2.i) of the RGPD, the sanction that could
corresponding for the presumed infraction of the aforementioned provision would be a fine administered
payment of €10,000, in accordance with 83.2 g) of the RGPD, without prejudice to what results
of instruction.”

FIFTH: On 06/22/2020, (folio 121/133 as of that date) the respondent performs the following:
following allegations:

1) Your entity “has the consent of the patient for the transfer of their data to the
entity responsible for your health coverage, in this case the MUTUA FREMAP”-

-Provides a copy of the contract between FREMAP MUTUA collaborating with Social Security
no. 61 and DIAGNOSTIC CENTER *** LOCATION.1 SAU (folio 38/133) referring to the
contracting of the diagnostic imaging service by CT and ultrasound, in ***LO-
QUALITY.1, of 12/21/2018. The processing and formalization of the contract is carried out by virtue of
of the stipulations of the order TIN 2789/2009 of 10/14 by which the model is implemented
the normalized for the processing of requests for authorization and communications of the
concerts with private media to make health benefits effective and recover-
Mutual companies and according to the provisions of Royal Decree 1630/2011 of 11/14 by which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/37

the provision of health and recovery services of Mutual Societies is regulated. He claims-
provided a copy of the contract FREMAP Mutual collaborator with the Social Security and CEN-
DIAGNOSTIC TRO ***LOCALIDAD.1 SAU, referring to contracting the service of
diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging in ***LOCALIDAD.1, of
12/21/2018, “service that will be carried out in accordance with the offer that was presented and what is established
in the specifications of administrative clauses and technical prescriptions”. “The object service
of contracting will be executed by the staff of the claimed or, where appropriate, sub-companies
contractors depending for all purposes on the successful bidder. The successful bidder is obliged to
dedicate all the personal and material means necessary to carry out the project successfully.
object of the contracted service in the terms established in the specifications"

-Attach document 1, (folio 114) copy of the "Data Protection clause" signed by
the claimant on 08/27/2019. Your data is contained, the medical record number with glue-
tina FREMAPSS FREMAPSSCC, AFFIDEA SAGRADO CORAZON, 8 h 55 and in the literal fi-
figure:

“your data protection consent”
“Main purpose for the provision of medical services”, “I, the undersigned, through
By signing this document I acknowledge that I have received the privacy policy and I am
has informed how AFFIDEA will process personal data in order to carry out
the medical diagnosis and/or the provision of the requested medical services”.

"Additional purposes" (depending on the possibilities of providing these services of each
diagnostic center).
It is marked in relation to the matter:
- “I consent to the transfer of data to my prescribing doctor and/or my health coverage and I have been
informed that, in case of opposition, the provision of the service will be at my expense as pa-
particular client.”

Before the section that contains: “your consent to data protection” it is indicated:
“Our privacy policy for patients contains the essential information about
our treatment of data in the provision of our medical services. We beg you
Please read this document which informs you why and how your information is processed
staff. In our privacy policy you can find information regarding the following:
following aspects:

To identity and contact details of the data controller,
B contact details of the Director of Data Protection,
C object and legal basis for its treatment,
D sources of your personal data,
And recipients of your personal data,
F period in which the personal data will be stored,
G rights under Data Protection laws,
H international data transfers

2) In the AFFIDEA ESPAÑA group they have not limited themselves to integrating the clinical history at the level of
each Center, but in application of what is stated in article 14.1 of Law 41/2002 of
14/11, basic regulation of patient autonomy and rights and obligations in ma-
matter of information and clinical documentation, (LAP hereinafter) have implanted the history
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/37

unique clinic in the entire Group. No distinction is made as to whether the story is from public health.
ca or private and is derived from the legal precept that determines the aforementioned integration.

“In the privacy policy for patients of the AFFIDEA Spain group website
patients are expressly informed of the existence of a single clinical history, used
using the following terms: we inform you that for a better medical diagnosis manage-
we process your clinical history in a unique way so that the different entities of the Group
po AFFIDEA Spain can access your clinical history, always in order to provide a
more accurate medical service.

3) “There is a global consensus on the importance of sharing clinical information
unique and interoperable ca that integrates the data of the public and private health that is reflected
in numerous recommendations and action plans at the national and international levels. “Dispos-
Having correct information at the right time brings benefits to the actors and a
positive impact at all levels of the health system.”

4) It mentions that it acts in accordance with the general interest, which must prevail over the par-
in relation to guaranteeing quality health care. Consider that various
sources support the need for access to previous studies and reports and clinical information
additional information, as well as the need for the coordination of the stories, to ensure the
quality of patient care. Between them:

-The Spanish Society of Medical Radiology developed a "decalogue of good practices in
tele radiology” (it is obtained by accessing the internet, and is incorporated into the procedure in file
PDF with 51 pages). It includes aspects related to professionals and patients with the
radiological process and technology. Among other aspects, they include point 7 under the title:
“Access to previous studies and reports and additional clinical information are essential elements
essential to ensure the quality of the radiological report”. In it, it is indicated that the lack
review of previous radiological examinations is an important cause of malpractice and
of errors in the generation of radiological reports, which requires an interpretation
completely, there should be no limitations or barriers to access the studies,
previous reports, and additional clinical information by the radiologist. It is also indicated
that “The authorization to examine, analyze, verify any record and report that is
important, for the realization of the radiological report, it must be granted in writing by the
patient and all possible precautions should be taken within the restrictions that
establishes the current legislation, in order to maintain the confidentiality and protection of
patient data.”

-Cites the third additional provision of the LAP that establishes the "Coordination of histo-
clinical trials" when determining that: "The Ministry of Health and Consumption, in coordination and with
the collaboration of the competent Autonomous Communities in the matter, will promote, with
the participation of all stakeholders, the implementation of a compatibility system
that, considering the evolution and availability of technical resources, and the diversity of systems
more and types of medical records, enable its use by healthcare centers in Spain
that attend to the same patient, in order to avoid that those attended in different centers
subject to examinations and procedures of unnecessary repetition.”
As can be deduced from the resolution of procedure PS 287/2018 of the AEPD,
(HOSPITAL POVISA) “if the law does not distinguish or limit, then the AEPD must not differentiate between
laughing at the public and private health systems”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/37

-From article 56 of Law 16/2003 of 05/28, on cohesion and quality of the National System of
health, it follows that it is neither logical nor reasonable to understand that improving care
citizens comes from and must be guaranteed only with the data obtained from the
public health using as an example a person who only has history
private clinic and could go to a public center to receive emergency care,
giving rise to responsibilities due to lack of knowledge of private history.

- “The AFFIDEA ESPAÑA group has implemented the system with the interest of the users in mind.
patients, ensuring their healthcare safety and lacking their own interests”.

“The aim pursued is that of greater healthcare safety for patients allowed
maintaining the unification of care processes regardless of who is the pa-
provider of health care, since a greater guarantee of quality is pursued
health and protection for patients. It is incongruous and risky to limit
access only to care processes in public health if what is sought is to gain
guarantee quality assistance and greater safety.”

5) Refers to part of the content of the judgment of the National High Court, content room
administrative brief, section one, of 09/22/2004, which assesses a resolution of the AEPD, in
based on continued professional medical performance within the framework of private insurance and a
niestro, with imputation of transfer of medical data obtained from a first examination
doctor used for a legal proceeding. He transfers the meaning that he understands
arises from said sentence, in the case of this claim, as professional medical care
continued.
The sentence to which he refers, although he does not quote it, is specifically dated 09/22/2004, rec.
888/2002 and upholds the appeal of the data assignor, a Medical Cabinet, which is charged with
ba the infraction indicating and concluding that it is a case different from the communication
to the Mutual from the part of the report that deals with this procedure, as can be deduced, by noting
Lar: “Seguros La Estrella already knew the result of the medical examination that Cabinet Cer-
vanantes had initially made to the complainants (second proven fact), with their
consent, and before they sued said insurer in the proceeding
judicial proceedings, thus it derives not only from folios 135 to 144 of the administrative file that
are cited in the lawsuit, but, above all, of the mechanics of payment of the indemnities.
tions that correspond to satisfy by the Insurance Companies to their insured in the
accident cases, mechanics of risk coverage and payment of the amount of damages
derived from such accidents that are regulated in detail both in Law 50/1980, of 8
October, of Insurance Contracts, as in Law 30/1995, of November 8, of Ordinance
tion and Supervision of Private Insurance.

In short, and since there was no second or new assignment in the case,
but a new use by the assignee (the Insurance Company) of the health data
of the complainants who, with their consent, had been collected by the Medical Cabinet
and that were already known by the insurer, we must conclude in this way that we do not understand
contract before an act of transfer to a third party other than the one affected or interested in the meaning
do referred to in the Data Protection Law.”. The difference is that part of the
communicated to the Mutual, the reference and contrast with the previous analysis was not known by
is.

6) “Possibility of being involved in Social Security fraud” if a Mutua patient,
due to an accident “is referred to one of the AFFIDEA Spain Centers, for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/37

carrying out a study and issuing a diagnosis, it is essential to include in the report the
previous studies since they are decisive as to whether the patient's injury has originated
by accident or already suffered from it previously. For example, if a patient has a le-
degenerative disc pressure and suffers a traffic accident, the only objective way to know if
said accident has worsened their situation is through comparison with previous studies
saw to see new disc displacements or aggravation of previous injuries”

Article 7 of Organic Law 7/2012 of 12/27, which modifies the Organic Law
10/95 of 11/23, of the Criminal Code, on transparency and fight against tax fraud
and Social Security, introduces a new article 307 ter with the following wording:

“Whoever obtains, for himself or for another, the benefit of the Security System
Social, the undue extension of the same, or facilitate others to obtain it, through the
error caused by the simulation or misrepresentation of facts, or the concealment
aware of facts of which he had the duty to report, thereby causing damage to the
Public Administration, will be punished with a sentence of six months to three years in prison.”

In the case analyzed, if the AFFIDEA group, "in the report derived from the resonance requested
by the company Mutual on 08/27/2019 due to an accident in the workplace, hidden
the antecedents already existing in the same knee and detected by the practical magnetic resonance
each on 08/02/2019 in the same Center of the same Group and the Mutual doctor considers
the accident in the workplace as a labor accident, because it has not been able to have knowledge
of the existence of the previous MRI, performed in the same part of the same
member, AFFIDEA group would be committing fraud against Social Security.” Possible
breach of contract with the MUTUA FREMAP. In the contracts signed between
claimed and FREMAP, the center acquires the commitment to comply with all the regulations
that could be applied in matters such as prevention of criminal activities.

7) “The report sent to the Mutual by the respondent, is limited to conveying the conclusion regarding
about the ailment to inform the Mutual Society of the most objective assessment of the condition.
health status of the worker insofar as it contains additional health data than those that motivate
their query: “No changes compared to the previous study”, “significant improvement of the sprain
ce of the internal collateral at the present time” or “without acute inflammatory changes”.

8) Possible civil liability derived from non-compliance with the "lex artis", according to various
sentences. The "lex artis" obliges the health professional, understood as that criterion
assessment of the correctness of the specific medical act performed by the medical professional
that takes into account the special characteristics of that author, of the profession, of the
complexity and vital importance of the patient, being in this case not an obligation
of results but of means, that of providing all the necessary care in consonance with
ence with the state of science and the “lex artis ad hoc”. In this sense, “the medical professional
doctor has to apply all the means that are within his reach, that is to say, it is not possible to avoid the knowledge
foundations derived from previous existences since it would not be using all the means
that are within your reach.”

9) They consider that the inclusion of existing antecedents in the same right knee
of the patient detected by the MRI performed on 2/08 in a center of the same group
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/37

As in the report of the resonance of 08/27/2019, it does not bring cause of an unauthentic treatment.
unauthorized or illegal, loss, destruction or accidental damage caused by the lack of application
appropriate technical or organizational measures by the claimed party, but is the result
of good medical practice. Among other aspects of compliance with the regulations that
fer, states that its Group has been subjecting itself to external audits of compliance
regulations on Data Protection every two years, being the last fe-
February 2020 and its scope area is the current security measures, achieving
a score of 4.7 points out of 5 providing some data extracted from said report in
document no. 5.

SIXTH: On 01/18/2021, the test practice period begins, giving
reproduced for such purposes the claim and its documentation, the documents obtained
and generated by the Inspection Services, the allegations and the documentation against the
start agreement.

In addition, it was requested:

a) Copy of the data processing information that was delivered to the claimant in the
first medical assistance produced through the insurer ADESLAS, in the proof of
08/02/2019, treated at CAMPO GRANDE MEDICAL DIAGNOSTIC CENTER S.L.,
belonging to the AFFIDEA GROUP.

It is received in writing after the issuance of the proposal, on 02/19/2021,
allegations to it, indicating that the full content of the petition for
evidence, only the part of the literal "considering reproduced for such purposes the claim and its
documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the Inspection Services, the
allegations and documentation against the initiation agreement”, which is why he could not
answer them. Indeed, it is verified that the default template comes out as
writing was not completed with the addition of evidence to the addressee, nor was its verification
content, which is why the document received by the respondent contained only the part that
date.

It provides a pdf file called DOCUMENT 4, which is the same standard model of
“Data Protection clause” AFFIDEA, “completed and signed by the claimant
in the assistance of 08/27/2019 that was already provided in allegations.

Provides in a pdf file called DOCUMENT 5, the same standard model of "clause
Data Protection” AFFIDEA, although the reference sticker ADESLAS appears,
AFFIDEA BIG FIELD, 04/27/2019. The informative literal marked with the "I consent to the
transfer of data to my prescribing doctor and/or my health coverage and I have been informed of
that in case of opposition, the provision of the service will be at my expense as a private patient.
lar”.

b) Copy that collects the conditions of the contract signed by MEDICAL CENTER OF
DIAGNÓSTICO CAMPO GRANDE S.L., belonging to the AFFIDEA GROUP and related
with the processing of data of patients treated through the insurer
ADESLAS, for which the claimant was treated in the test of 08/2/219.

He points out that there is no such contract or obligation to sign it. It adheres to the interpretation of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/37

AEPD that the transmission of data to the Centers of a health insurance company
is considered a transfer of data, making the Health Center responsible for the
treatment, so it does not consider it necessary to sign a contract that regulates access to
the data.

c) Copy of the contract signed with FREMAP that contains the conditions of the treatment of
personal data of patients treated through the DIAGNOSTIC CENTER
***LOCALIDAD.1 S.A, (provided only the contract for the award of the service of
diagnosis in favor of the DIAGNOSTIC CENTER ***LOCALIDAD.1 S.A.)

He points out that he concurs with the same argument of the previous point, the condition by the Center
healthcare provider responsible for the treatment

d) Contributed on the assistance process in the DIAGNOSTIC CENTER
***LOCATION.1 S.A. on 08/27/2019, the "data protection clause", on the same
You are requested to report:

The stickers on the upper right refer to the date of the resonance carried out on
08/27/209 in the process in which he is assisted in collaboration with Mutua FREMAP. In
relation to it:

- Reason why yes in the contract for the award of the service that they refer in allegations
subscribed with FREMAP, the DIAGNOSTIC CENTER appears as a service provider
***LOCALIDAD.1 S.A., in the data protection clause information does not include this
entity as data controller, indicating "AFFIDEA undertakes to respect
Your rights…"

It indicates that the defendant is the successful bidder for the provision of the service, and at the same time has the
obligation to keep the patient's clinical history, being responsible for the
treatment, and the one that has the obligation to inform about the treatment of the data of the
patient, as responsible for them.

-You must provide the rest of the data protection information indicated in the content.
do “Data Protection clause” “our commitment to Data Protection” “In
our privacy policy you can find information regarding the following aspects:
data”: A identity and contact details of the data controller, C the object and legal basis
gal for its treatment D sources of your personal data and E recipients of your data
personal, indicating the way in which the patient is informed of these extremes, and if
signed by the patient, send a copy of the documents.

This aspect, which he did not specify, was on his website.

SEVENTH: On 02/02/2021 the AFFIDEA .es website is accessed

-The "WHO WE ARE" tab appears.
In "WHO WE ARE" appears the health group AFFIDEA is a leading company in diag-
diagnostic imaging that incorporates the most advanced technology in resonance techniques
magnetic, European coverage 16 countries in Europe, 274 centres, 9,400 professionals.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/37

Our centers in Spain: We currently have 40 diagnostic centers
co being present in seven autonomous communities Asturias, Castilla La Mancha, Castilla
León, Catalonia, Madrid, Murcia and the Valencian Community”.
In the "CENTRES" tab they appear in Castilla y León, ***LOCATION.1: CAMPO GRAN-
OF, FELIPE II, PARACELSO, SACRED HEART HOSPITAL. Clicking on each
Of these, the diagnostic tests that are carried out are listed, as well as the address. The claim-
The first resonance of the right knee is performed on 08/2/2019 in CENTRO DE
DIAGNOSTICO CAMPO GRANDE S L. through its private insurance ADESLAS, and the
08/27/2019, the second in another clinic of the group, the claimed: CENTRO DE DIAGNÓSTI-
CO ***LOCATION.1 S.A. at the SAGRADO CORAZÓN HOSPITAL at the request of the Mutual
FREMAP to assess whether the injury is due to an accident at work.
Companies are listed in the “WHO WE WORK WITH” section. such as ADESLAS, ASISA,
Mutual: FREMAP, MUTUA UNIVERSAL, MUTUA INTERCOMARCAL etc., for mentioning-
nar some
There are also public health entities SACYL, Castilla y León, SALUD MADRID
Autonomous Community of Madrid, MURCIANO SERVICE etc.

-On the same date, in AFFIDEA.es, section “PRIVACY POLICY FOR PAY-
CIENTES”, its content is obtained by joining the procedure.

It indicates that AFFIDEA is a provider of medical services, identifies the head office AFFI-
DEA ESPAÑA and the contact details of the Data Protection Officer in the clause
sulla 9.

It is reported that:

 For a better medical diagnosis we manage your clinical history in a unique way
so that the different entities of the AFFIDEA SPAIN GROUP - see reverse - can act
give in to your clinical history always in order to provide a more accurate medical service.

 Information is contained on the bases of legitimacy for the treatment of data

personal data, “data we process.” It is indicated that in providing medical services to you
create health data as a provider of such services and that is required by law to do-
comment on the aforementioned services. “To obtain more information about the data we treat-
Please refer to the annex to this privacy policy.”

 In the section "with whom we share your data" there is a specific section called-

do "with independent third parties" in which it is reported that these are those derived from the
that are established of the obligations by law, or when “so required by a contract from which
you are part of, for example, your health insurance contract”.

 In the “privacy policy annex” it is indicated “more information about with whom
We share your data. It appears in tables differentiated by recipients, folio 12, that of
“third parties acting independently of AFFIDEA”, which contains
related to each other:

-

"recipient identity" distinguish by way of example:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/37

"doctor who prescribed the test".
"clinical laboratories"
“public hospitals that have referred you to our center”, “CIA insurance company to which you
belongs”, or
“Spanish Social Security System”.
- “sector of activity” “private medical insurance”, or “national health insurance”.

- “type of activity”, “confirmation of insurance coverage”, or “storage of
SNS financed medical records”.

-In the "PRIVACY POLICY" section that "governs the website", under the ownership
of AFFIDEA, on security of personal data and transparency, appears the denomination
registered office of GRUPO AFFIDEA ESPAÑA, its registered office, its NIF and telephone number and the address of
Contact of the Data Protection Delegate

EIGHTH: On 02/08/2021, a resolution proposal was issued with the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, a sanction is made for
CENTRO DE DIAGNOSTICO ***LOCALIDAD.1, S.A., with CIF ***CIF.1, for an infraction
of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, as indicated in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a fine of
10,000 euros.”

NINTH: Against the proposal, on 02/19/2021 allegations were received. stating:

1) If they replied to the transfer of the claim with a copy of the registration entered in the headquarters
tronic ***REGISTER.1 of 11/22/2019, file ***FILE.1 (doc. 1). Attach the copy
of the response that they manifest they made in the transfer phase.

It is indicated that the claim is not considered appropriate, there is no incident and they have not taken
any measure. They state about the object of the claim, the inclusion of studies
previous within the findings of the report issued by the claimed whose addressee was the
Mutua, the same considerations that they made in the initial agreement. Namely, they provide
document 1 containing the data protection clause signed by the claimant on
08/27/2019, consideration and consequences that the clinical history is unique at the level of everything
the AFFIDEA SPAIN GROUP, refer to the decalogue of good practices and ultimately, the
rest of the arguments that are already reported as allegations to the initial agreement.

two)
Indicates that he has been deprived of providing the evidence when issuing the proposal, specifying that
the test document they received was incomplete because it only contained part of
"Considering reproduced for such purposes the claim and its documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the Inspection Services, the allegations and the documentation
against the initial agreement.” missing the rest of the literal. It is verified that indeed
sent what was indicated for not attaching in the template the specific addition that was
requested. Answers in allegations to proposal to such extremes that are contained in the
pretest section. Provides pdf file DOCUMENT 4 and DOCUMENT 5 referred to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/37

in evidence, both documents being the same type of informative writing used to
“data protection clause”.

3) Depending on the purpose and content of the clinical history, the physician who attended the
patient incorporated the information that emerges both from the first care and in the
second, reflecting it in the second attendance report. Otherwise, I would not respond.
to the veracity of the state of health, since “the injury did not originate as a result of the
accident, suffering from it previously, having been detected by the doctor in the
assistance from 08/02/2019. It is up to the doctor to decide on the content of the history
clinic, the reports of complementary explorations being part of it.” "The
The object of the clinical history is to obtain the maximum possible integration of the documentation
clinic of each patient, without making any distinction between public and private healthcare”. In
In this case, if the doctor did not use the information that was already in the clinical history,
would be managing the best and most timely knowledge of the patient, which would mean a
breach of regulations.

4) Social Security fraud has been avoided thanks to the assessment of both
imaging tests. “This fraud would have occurred in the event that the professional
would only have had access to the evidence requested from Fremap, since based on the
itself could not know that the injury was already there, so it would have been
Paid sick leave due to work-related accident granted by the Social Security system
Social." By understanding that history cannot be accessed, one would be favoring and
allowing a criminal act consisting of fraud against the Administration, that is,
would have produced the conscious concealment of facts related to obtaining
Social Security benefits. “In this case, the particular interest could not prevail
of the patient that the imaging tests that would prevent him from accessing
fraudulent way to a public benefit", but considers that there is an interest
general in avoiding fraud against the public system that pays the benefits, being
In addition, the necessary treatment for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment (6.1.c and 6.1.e of the RGPD).

5) The end entrusted in the second medical visit by order of the Mutual was not the
recognition of whether or not the contingency was professional. It is the Fremap professional who
requests the realization of the imaging test in order to see the origin of the injury by the
that the complainant is on sick leave and attributes it to an occupational accident. It is
this professional who, in view of the clinical reports provided, issues the
consideration of whether or not we are facing an occupational accident. On the other hand, there is the
professional radiologist, who has to interpret an image test and based on
the same, issue a diagnosis on a painting. To do this, the professional has to use the
clinical history in your possession and, especially those imaging tests that
can help interpret the result of the test under study. “In this case, the
professional has an imaging test of the same lesion previously performed and on the
The basis of both tests proves that its origin is degenerative”. “In no
case the professional” of the respondent “makes a clinical judgment on whether or not there is a
work accident".

6) The patient wants selective use to be made of the clinical history for cases
that he decides with the statement that “in the event of an imminent risk of something happening
fatal, health information must be taken into account, but this is not the case. there isn't a
imminent risk of death.” Selective interest consists in seeking to benefit
in camouflaging a previous injury in one of labor origin.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/37

7) The inclusion of the already existing antecedents in the same right knee of the patient
and detected by the a practiced on 08/02/2019 in a Center of the same Group, in the report
of resonance of 08/27/2019 does not bring cause of an unauthorized treatment caused by
the lack of application of appropriate technical or organizational measures by the
claimed, but resulting from good medical practice, adjusted to the regulations. "Face to
evaluate a pathology and more when it is performed through imaging tests, it is
necessary to analyze them both individually and as a whole, under penalty of incurring
a misdiagnosis”, and that it is not excusable when they are within reach and may have
repercussions.

8) Even considering that it is an assignment, it would be legitimate in accordance with
Articles 9 and 6 of the GDPR. Considers that in both assistance to the claimant there is the
exception for data processing, the first based on the provision of assistance
health and medical diagnosis, the second, "the result of the contract for the award of the service of
diagnosis to the claimed, also in article 9.2 h) as "management of systems and
healthcare services”. “In both cases the basis of legitimacy for the
treatment is that it is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is
part article 6.1 b) of the RGPD”.

9) Error in the typification of the proposed sanction. On the basis of Law V of
the proposal, it is established: "it is not proven that the claimant had granted the
consent for the transfer of data from the first medical visit and there is no authorization
lawful for it. “ So it is imputed that the transfer of the data was not adapted to the
applicable regulations based on the absence of informed consent for the
assignment. Subsequently, in the foundation of Law VI, it is stated:

“It is accredited in this case, that the claimed, on 08/27/2019 accesses personal data of
a prior consultation of the claimant in a private regime, when he exercised functions of
collaboration with the Mutual in the management of health care systems and services and
to determine the contingency on behalf of the Mutual.

Data treatment that materializes when introducing the terms of medical comparison
of the data in the report that it sends to the Mutual, and that it does not have a legitimate basis or the
consent of the affected party.

Again, it is said again that there has been access to personal data from a
prior consultation without consent.

In the following foundation of Law, the seventh, the infraction is expressly typified,
contained in article 83.5 a of the RGPD, “because the claimant did not grant the
consent for the transfer of the data of the first medical visit nor is there authorization
legal for it.”, for breach of the basic principles established in the RGPD, in
specifically, because the claimant did not grant consent for the transfer of the data of the
first medical visit nor is there legal authorization for it.

Consequently, according to the instructor's interpretation, there has been a
breach of article 6, which regulates the legality of the treatment, specifically, of
its section 1 letter a), which establishes as the legal basis for the treatment, the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/37

consent of the interested party for one or several specific purposes. That said, it doesn't fit
classify the sanction as a breach of 5.1.f) of the RGPD, for having processed the data
as a consequence of the lack of measures that guarantee an adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

PROVEN FACTS

AFFIDEA reports on its website:

1)
a. It is a health group specialized in diagnostic imaging established in 16 countries
in Europe. In Spain it has 40 centers spread over 7 autonomous communities. In
***LOCATION.1 has three centers: CAMPO GRANDE, FELIPE II PARACELSO, and
SACRED HEART HOSPITAL.

b. It provides services to different entities, both private health companies,
Health of the Autonomous Communities (Public Health) and Mutual.
two)
On 08/02/2019, the claimant, on his own initiative, underwent a first resonance of
the right knee at CENTRO DE DIAGNÓSTICO CAMPO GRANDE S.L. (belonging to
group AFFIDEA ESPAÑA, located in the Hospital of the same name) through your insurance
private doctor ADESLAS. The informative literal of the standard data protection clause
These figures are marked that “I consent to the transfer of the data to my prescribing doctor and/or my co-
health coverage and I have been informed that in case of opposition, the provision of the service
It will be at my expense as a private patient.” On the AFFIDEA.es website it is reported in the
PRIVACY POLICY FOR PATIENTS section, which “For a better diagnosis
medical practice we manage your clinical history in a unique way so that the different en-
Entities of the AFFIDEA Spain group - see reverse - can access their clinical history whenever
pre in order to provide a more accurate medical service. “In the section “data processed”
mos” is indicated:
“In providing you with medical services, we create health data about you. What
provider of medical services, Affidea is required by law to document
thoroughly these services.” In the “with whom we share your data” section,
states: “We share your personal data with third parties (independent recipients) in the
following cases:

If we are required by law.

If required by a contract to which you are a party (for example, your health insurance contract),
I say). In case of opposition, the provision of the service will be at your expense as a participating patient.
ass.

With other health professionals in a life-saving emergency (eg, an emergency).

We will only share your data to the extent absolutely necessary."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/37

3) Dated 08/27/2019, according to the claimant "due to an accident at the workplace"
FREMAP, Mutual collaborator of accidents and professional illness collaborating with the
Social Security for the company in which the claimant provides services, in order to
To make the initial determination of the professional nature of the contingency, commissioned a test
medical examination: “right knee MRI” “at the Sagrado Corazón hospital in ***LOCALI-
DAD.1”, to the center called CENTRO DE DIAGNOSTICO ***LOCALIDAD.1 S.A.-claim-
mado- (which happens to belong to the group AFFIDEA ESPAÑA.
In this medical assessment carried out by order of the Mutual, on 08/27/2019, appears: ar-
file named ***FILE.2, in pdf, “clinical information” sheet: “suspected injury
internal meniscus, “Right knee magnetic resonance study. In the “findings” section,
refers to “I compare with a previous study carried out on 08/02/2019” and:

“A linear hyperintensity of signal is observed in the posterior horn of the meniscus

-
ternal in relation to a fissure without changes with respect to the previous study”

“Significant improvement of the internal collateral sprain at the present time was not seen.

-
sualiza the ligament is intact”

“A slight proximal avulsion of the anterior cruciate is also observed, although

-
that without acute inflammatory changes, the partial rupture is mild”

“Posterior cruciate ligament, external collateral, patellar tendon and the visible portion

-
of the quadriceps tendon without significant alterations.”

In the report of 08/02/2019, the following are mentioned, among others:

- State of the internal meniscus, anterior and posterior horn.
- crossed posterior and anterior.

The claimant states that as a consequence: "the doctor who treats him tells him to
contact your private doctor or Social Security, since they cannot consider the action
accident in the workplace as work, because there is a previous MRI
performed on the same part of the same limb.

1)
The claimant considers that, in the test ordered by FREMAP, the health center
who attended him collected and gave the Mutual information with his medical data "to an entity
of what I have done through another private entity.”, stating that he is aware
that "each company has the same clinical history in all its centers".

two)
In the test conducted on 08/27/2019, the respondent gave the claimant a form
standard lary of DATA PROTECTION CLAUSE consisting of a document
signed by the claimant. In the literal it appears:

“I, the undersigned, by signing this document acknowledge that I have received the
privacy policy and I have been informed of how AFFIDEA will process personal data.
in order to carry out the medical diagnosis and/or the provision of medical services.
cos requested”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/37

It is marked in relation to the matter:
- “I consent to the transfer of data to my prescribing doctor and/or my health coverage and I have been
informed that, in case of opposition, the provision of the service will be at my expense as pa-
particular client.”

Before "your data protection consent" you are referred to the "privacy policy" section.
privacy” that although it does not indicate it, it appears on its website:” to find information regarding
to the following aspects:

To identity and contact details of the data controller,
B contact details of the Director of Data Protection,
C object and legal basis for its treatment,
D sources of your personal data,
And recipients of your personal data,
F period in which the personal data will be stored,
G rights under Data Protection laws,

H international data transfers

On the AFFIDEA.es website, it is reported in the PRIVACY POLICY section.
3)
DAD FOR PATIENTS, contains information on the bases of legitimacy for
the processing of personal data. “

In the "privacy policy annex" of the website it is indicated "more information about
4)
who we share your data with. It appears in tables differentiated by recipients, that of
“third parties acting independently of AFFIDEA”, which contains related
two each other:

- “recipient identity” distinguish by way of example:
"doctor who prescribed the test".
"clinical laboratories"
“public hospitals that have referred you to our center”, “CIA insurance company to which you
belongs”, or
“Spanish Social Security System”.
- “sector of activity” “private medical insurance”, or “national health insurance”.

- “type of activity”, “confirmation of insurance coverage”, or “storage of
SNS financed medical records”.

In the "PRIVACY POLICY" section of the website, it appears that "governs the page
5)
web”, under the ownership of AFFIDEA, on security of personal data and transparency,
under the corporate name of GRUPO AFFIDEA ESPAÑA, its registered office, its NIF and telephone number.
Phone number and contact address of the Data Protection Delegate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/37

6)
The respondent provided a copy of the FREMAP Mutual contract collaborating with the Security
Social Community and DIAGNOSTIC CENTER ***LOCALIDAD.1 SAU, as successful bidder of the
contract referring to the contracting of the diagnostic imaging service through resolution
magnetic finance in ***LOCALIDAD.1 of 12/21/2018, “Service that will be carried out in accordance
with the offer that it presented and what is established in the specifications of administrative clauses and
technical prescriptions”. The contracted service will be performed by the personnel
of the claimed or, where appropriate, subcontractor companies depending for all purposes on the
awardee. The successful bidder undertakes to dedicate all personal and material means
necessary to successfully carry out the object of the contracted service in the terms established.
two in the sheets”. Nothing is indicated about personal medical data that is collected
gen by GRUPO AFFIDEA ESPAÑA and that the respondent, belonging to the GROUP, communicated
to the Mutual.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each control authority,
trol, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The LAP contains, in accordance with its statement of reasons, the rights of users of
health services in development of the basic regulation of the State, through
the General Health Law 14/1986 of 04/25, which “states that the health organization must
allow guaranteeing health as an inalienable right of the population through the structure
of the National Health System, which must be ensured under conditions of scrupulous respect
personal privacy and the individual freedom of the user, guaranteeing the confidentiality
quality of the information related to the health services that are provided and without any
kind of discrimination.” “Based on these premises, this Law completes the forecasts
tions that the General Health Law enunciated as general principles.”

“Thus manifests a community conception of the right to health, in which, together
to the singular interest of each individual, as recipient par excellence of the information
related to health, there are also other agents and legal rights related to public health.
which must be considered, with the necessary relevance, in a democratic society.
advanced ac. In this line, the Council of Europe, in its Recommendation of 02/13/1997,
regarding the protection of medical data, after stating that they must be collected and
be processed with the consent of the affected party, indicates that the information may be restricted
if so provided by law and constitutes a necessary measure for reasons of general interest.”
(explanatory statement of the LAP).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/37

In the scope of application of the LAP, it is indicated, its purpose is (art 1): "the regulation of
rights and obligations of patients, users and professionals, as well as centers
and health services, public and private, in terms of patient autonomy and information
mation and clinical documentation.” To this end, the explanatory memorandum of the LAP indicates
“national health system” understood as a health organization, to guarantee health
as an inalienable right of the population through its structuring, and again: “that
must be ensured under conditions of scrupulous respect for personal privacy and freedom
individuality of the user, guaranteeing the confidentiality of the information related to
the health services that are provided and without any type of discrimination.”
The LAP defines that the clinical history is: “the set of documents that contain the data
cough, assessments and information of any kind on the situation and clinical evolution
of a patient throughout the care process” –art. 3.

Article 14 of the LAP indicates:

"1. The clinical history includes all the documents related to the processes
care of each patient, with the identification of the doctors and other professionals
that have intervened in them, in order to obtain the maximum possible integration of
the clinical documentation of each patient, at least, in the scope of each center.

2. Each center will file the medical records of its patients, whatever the
paper, audiovisual, computer or other support in which they are recorded, so that-
guarantee its security, its correct conservation and the recovery of the information
tion.”

The art. 15.2 of the LAP sets the minimum content of the clinical history, although many laws authorize
tonomics have increased this minimum content. In Castilla y León, the De-
Decree 101/2005 of 12/22, which regulates the clinical history (CYL Decree in what follows)
vo).

The CYL Decree in its Chapter I: "General Provisions" also establishes, firstly,
gar, the object and scope of application that will extend to both the public and private spheres.
do defines the clinical history and determines its main purpose: care, without forgetting other
applications. It is established that it will be unique per patient within the scope of the Castilian Health System.
lla y León, whatever the level of care at which health care is provided, and the only
in those centers that are not within the Health System of Castilla y León. In his article
ass 3 add the definition:

“b) Single clinical history: All the data of the healthcare contacts related to

two for a single patient identification number.

c) Contact: Each one of the health care demands of a patient that

generates clinical actions.”

The additional provision of the CYL DECREE: "computerization of clinical history" establishes
states that “With the aim of advancing in the configuration of a single clinical history per patient,
cient in the field of the Health System of Castilla y León, the Regional Health Management
will carry out the necessary actions to computerize the clinical history and its access to all
available clinical information, without prejudice to the provisions of Additional Provision Ter-
wax of the Basic Regulatory Law of Patient Autonomy and Rights and Obligations
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/37

Information and Clinical Documentation Matters.”
The aforementioned Third Additional Provision of the LAP indicates: Coordination of the stories
clinics have:

“The Ministry of Health and Consumption, in coordination and with the collaboration of the
Autonomous Communities competent in the matter, will promote, with the participation of all
both stakeholders, the implementation of a compatibility system that, in response to the evolution
tion and availability of technical resources, and the diversity of systems and types of stories
clinics, enable its use by healthcare centers in Spain that attend to the same
patient, in order to prevent those treated in various centers from undergoing examinations
and procedures of unnecessary repetition.”

The CYL Decree adds in its article 5:

“1.– In the area of the Health System of Castilla y León, the clinical history will be unique.

ca per patient.

In health centers, services and establishments outside the Health System of

Castilla y León, the clinical history will be unique per patient in each center.

2.– The clinical history must be unified within the same center, services
cio or health establishment. A clinical history will be unified when all the documents
active elements supported by the same medium are archived in the same
container."

The art. 15.1) 2) and .4) of the LAP states:

"1. The clinical history will incorporate the information that is considered transcendental for
truthful and up-to-date knowledge of the patient's health status. Every patient or user
Rio has the right to record, in writing or in the most appropriate technical support,
of the information obtained in all its assistance processes, carried out by the
health both in the field of primary care and specialized care.

2. The main purpose of the clinical history will be to facilitate healthcare, leaving
proof of all those data that, under medical criteria, allow the ve-
root and updated health status. The minimum content of the clinical history will be the following:
next…”

"4. The clinical history will be kept with unit and integration criteria, in each institution.
care tuition as a minimum, to facilitate the best and most timely knowledge by the
doctors of the data of a certain patient in each healthcare process.”

The protagonism of the patient affects when it indicates the art. 17.4 of the LAP that it must
be integrated unitarily by all the data that the doctors understand to be
transcendental to guarantee an adequate care work for the patient.

In this way, all professionals who intervene in the care activity are obliged to
compliance with the duties of information and clinical documentation, being an obligation and
responsibility of the professional who intervenes in the assistance activity “not only to the correctness
provision of its techniques, but to comply with the duties of information and documentation
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/37

clinical mentation, and to respect the decisions made freely and voluntarily by the
patient." art 2.6 LAP. This obligation to complete the healthcare activity is also
applicable to private health services.

Thus, it can be deduced that both public health services and health services under
private, healthcare services must generate and safeguard the respective clinical histories
unique fees per patient and service, and the specific mention in the laws on
systems of coordination and collaboration in health management as a constitutional right
titional.

III

The LAP applicable to public and private health centers, and provides that health professionals
Users have a duty to cooperate in the creation and maintenance of documentation
clinic, establishes a single clinical history per patient and at least in each center, as well
as its content, purposes, confidentiality and access, always relating it to the nature
instrument of assistance. Only the matter of data protection is mentioned, in
article 17.6, dedicated to the preservation of clinical documentation as a form of reference
laugh at the different parts, indicating:

“Specified technical security measures apply to clinical documentation.
established by the legislation regulating the conservation of files containing data.
data of a personal nature and, in general, by Organic Law 15/1999, on Data Protection
Personal Character.”, and article 19 as a right related to the custody of the history
tory that “The patient has the right for health centers to establish a mechanism
active and diligent custody of medical records. This custody will allow the collection,
integration, retrieval and communication of information subject to the principle of
confidentiality in accordance with the provisions of article 16 of this Law.”
The uses and purposes are included in article 16 of the same LAP, as follows:

"1. The clinical history is an instrument fundamentally destined to guarantee
adequate patient care. The care professionals of the center who carry out
diagnosis or treatment of the patient have access to the clinical history of the patient as
fundamental instrument for its adequate assistance.

2. Each center will establish the methods that allow access to information at all times.

the clinical history of each patient by the professionals who assist them.”

Article 13 of the CYL Decree indicates:

“Health personnel who are directly involved in the diagnosis and treatment of

patient will have full access to the clinical history.

“2.– The center will establish the internal mechanisms for requesting medical records
to facilitate your availability for patient care and, whenever possible,
establish levels of access for the different categories of health personnel and for the
non-health personnel, by virtue of the functions that each one is entrusted with.

3.– When a patient is receiving health care in another center other than
the one in which the clinical history was generated, a copy of this must be provided when so-
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/37

tendered by the physician responsible for this assistance, provided that he has the authorization
express request of the patient, except in an emergency situation in which the patient cannot provide
in which case he must justify the healthcare need for the use of that documentation.
tion.

These same requirements will be required of the health services of the entities
collaborators in the management of the Social Security System who intend to access the
medical history of the worker for assistance purposes.”

Regarding the regime and benefits of the Mutuals, it should be considered that "the benefits
tions and services attributed to the management of the Mutuals collaborating with Social Security.
are part of the protective action of the system and will be dispensed in favor of the workers
tors at the service of associated entrepreneurs and with the same scope as those provided by the
managing entities in the cases attributed to them” (art 82.1 of the Royal Decree
Legislative 8/2015 of 10/30, approving the consolidated text of the General Law of the
Social Security, LGSS).

The last paragraph of article 82.2 of the LGSS determines that said services or provision of
professional contingencies can be waived through "concerts with means
private” as stated in the contract signed between the respondent and FREMAP.

Article 80.4 of the LGSS indicates:

“Mutuals collaborating with Social Security are part of the public sector
of an administrative nature, in accordance with the public nature of its functions.
tions and the economic resources they manage, without prejudice to the private nature of the
entity." The beginning and end of social security is applied to this management, which is configured
by the principles of universality, unity, solidarity and equality (art 2).

In this case, the defendant acted as a collaborator in the management of Social Security,
and although he had access to the entire medical record because he belonged to the same AFFIDEA Group,
the patient being informed of said single management, the computerized detail was not specified.
I did not specify or consent was required for the medical information contained in the
first attendance were incorporated into the report that had to be made on 08/27/2019, when
acted as a health service for the Mutua FREMAP entity, collaborating in the management. Yes
claimed did not belong to the Group and did not have access to previous history, there should have been
requested “express authorization of the patient”, indicates the norm. Also, as it turns out,
when the management is carried out by a collaborating account of the Social Security, that is, such
how he acted
On the other hand, the principle of care linkage, health professionals cannot
access any history, only because of their status as health center workers
and that have a care relationship with the patient who owns the record, as a tool for
provide its service properly. It is known that access to medical history in su-
contrary positions, especially for private uses or to reveal its content may
give rise to criminal liability. This basic principle is accompanied by the principle of
proportionality, which determines that the professional must access only the medical data
funds necessary to provide specific health care.

It should not be forgotten that the end entrusted in the second medical visit by order
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/37

of the Mutual, was the recognition of whether the contingency was professional or not, the public character
public of arranged means of the claimed one by which said valuation is carried out and that the article
Article 23 of Law 16/2003, of 28/05, on Cohesion and Quality of the National Health System
states that: “All users of the National Health System will have access to the benefits
health services recognized in this Law in conditions of effective equality.” It's the same-
treatment, it seems that it would not be fulfilled if the diagnostic center that performs the test
08/27/2019 outside of another company outside the Group, or a single clinic, and had no news
of previous antecedents, producing a distinction of treatment depending on the implant
geographical location of the Company, its size or importance, unless it is due, as stated in the
norm, require the patient to inform if he had a history of the injury and to authorize
will ensure the incorporation of the same with the effects of a declaration of veracity and cer-
integrity of the data, considering your responsibility in case it is not provided. the query
and verification of the finding of the first assistance in the second report for the Mutual no
was specifically informed to the affected and constitutes an excess in the treatment
carried out as will be explained in the following paragraphs, giving rise to the
loss of confidentiality of the claimant's data,

It is clear that it would be an excess of the content communicated to the
Mutual through the information that is incorporated in the second report, through issues
judgments that compare and resolve specific aspects, counting on the pertinent data.
personnel and doctors of the first assistance, for which, in this part, you must comply with the
authorization requirement for the processing of medical data provided for in the RGPD and in the LO-
PDGDD, together with the sector regulations that, as the CYL Decree indicates, must be obtained
expressly the authorization of the affected party if he is treated in another center that does not share the
history, an example would be between two private centers, or when attending a public center
public with respect to the history that is guarded by a private center.

Through it, the Mutual is made aware of the patient's medical data, re-
claimant, by the claimed, obtained from his medical diagnosis provided and obtained before
that the aforementioned Mutual be ordered to analyze the patient to check his right knee.
cha. The defendant compares the diagnostic imaging obtained from the test performed on the aforementioned
day 08/27/2019 and submits a report to the Mutual comparative with the data of the previous assistance
holding.

This work is entrusted through a contract with the defendant, as a diagnosis of
image, and whether by chance the patient should be asked for authorization or not, it does not seem that
should depend on a powerful implantation in a geographical area of the center
or belong to a large group with a shared clinical history, such as this
case, and contrary to what the regulations of clinical history preaches as determined by ex-
specifically the aforementioned Decree CYL. In this case, the Group company turned out to be a center
diagnosis related to the one that performed the first test. Both centers of
diagnosis belong to the same business group, which has a unique clinical history
at the level of the Group of companies, in the forty diagnostic centers that exist in Spain.
ña, according to its advertising. Any Mutual that contracts health management with a center
diagnostic imaging will have, in addition to the value of the medical act, the possibility of
verify important antecedents to contrast whether or not the ailments are accidents, with
a mere reference to the fact that the clinical history is unique and is provided for the benefit of the patient,
for a correct diagnosis, ignoring the authorization provided by the regulations and expressly
when referring to the fact that the care regimen is carried out through the collaboration of the system
public topic.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/37

 Also mention, in case you can add a distinctive note, that, in the contract with the Mu-
tua, nothing was indicated of the person responsible for the data of the clinical history, which, in this case,
According to the documents and information on the website, they are the responsibility of AFFIDEA ESPAÑA,
and they are the ones that are poured into the diagnostic contrasts, despite the fact that medical assistance
tive provided and completion are carried out by who feeds the processes, that is, by
the physicians of the defendant, who are the ones who decide without the authorization of the patient
Analyze the findings and communicate their conclusions to the Mutual.

IV

“Data relating to health” is defined in the GDPR as: “personal data relating to
to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health services
health care, that reveal information about their health status”

Article 4 of the GDPR defines:

2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations carried out on personal data.
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification
cation, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any
another form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction
tion;”
7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, public authority
public, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means of the
treatment; if the Law of the Union or of the Member States determines the ends and
god of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria for their name.
The opening may be established by the Law of the Union or of the Member States;
Unlike the established regime of those responsible for personal data that is contained
ne in the RGPD, in the medical records, the LAP and the CYL Decree mentions responsibility
health, medical or care centres, health services or physicians
you, in questions and for the purposes of responsibilities for compliance with the rights there
established, on the information and clinical history, regarding who corresponds to their
completion, access, custody, although in terms of vague legal subjects to the
indicate: “The clinical history will be kept with unit and integration criteria, in each institution.
care tuition as a minimum”. What can be understood by healthcare institution or center,
must be specified for the purposes of data protection management, which defines the person responsible
treatment, a description that has little to do with the center or institution.
9) "addressee": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body to which
that personal data is communicated, whether or not it is a third party. However, it is not considered
Recipients will be the public authorities that may receive personal data in the
framework of a specific investigation in accordance with the law of the Union or of the
Member states; the processing of such data by said public authorities will be
in accordance with the rules on data protection applicable to the purposes of the treatment.
to;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/37

10) "third party": natural or legal person, public authority, service or body other than the
interested party, the person in charge of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment and the people
authorized to process personal data under the direct authority of the controller or the
duty manager;
Article 4, point 9, defines "recipient" and specifies that a recipient who is communicated
can personal data does not have to be a third party. Therefore, a recipient can
of being a data controller, a co-controller or a processor.

Article 6.1 of the RGPD on the legality of the treatment provides at least that it must be given
one of the conditions that it lists in its letters a) to f), which it qualifies as ba-
treatment, referring in other sections to the legal basis or basis, or legal basis
of the treatment, being usual that it is indicated that the treatment is based on any of the
the bases contained in 6.1.

In article 9 of the RGPD, it is indicated: “Treatment of special categories of personal data.
nals”

"1. The processing of personal data that reveals ethnic or racial origin is prohibited.
social status, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions, or trade union membership, and
processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying
ca to a natural person, data relating to health or data relating to sexual life or
sexual orientation of a natural person.
2. Section 1 shall not apply when one of the following circumstances occurs:
a) the interested party gave his explicit consent for the treatment of said personal data-
them with one or more of the specified purposes, except when the Law of the Union or of
Member States provide that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 cannot
be raised by the interested party;
g) the processing is necessary for reasons of essential public interest, based on the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, which must be proportional to the objective per-
followed, essentially respect the right to data protection and establish measures
adequate and specific to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the interested party.
do;
h) the treatment is necessary for the purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, evaluation of the
worker's ability to work, medical diagnosis, provision of assistance or treatment
of a health or social nature, or management of health and social assistance systems and services.
on the basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States or by virtue of a
contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions and guarantees contained
pladas in section 3;

3. The personal data referred to in section 1 may be processed for the purposes mentioned in
section 2, letter h), when your treatment is carried out by a professional subject to the
obligation of professional secrecy, or under your responsibility, in accordance with the Law of
the Union or of the Member States or with the standards established by national bodies.
competent authorities, or by any other person also subject to the obligation of secrecy
in accordance with the Law of the Union or of the Member States or the regulations established
determined by the competent national bodies.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/37

4. Member States may maintain or introduce additional conditions, including license
limitations, with respect to the processing of genetic data, biometric data or data related to
you to health

The LOPDGDD points out:

-article 9.2 “2. The data processing contemplated in letters g), h) and i) of article
9.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 founded on Spanish Law must be protected
two in a regulation with the force of law, which may establish additional requirements related to
your security and confidentiality.

In particular, said rule may protect the processing of data in the field of health
when so required by the management of public health and social care systems and services.
public and private, or the execution of an insurance contract to which the affected party is a party.”
-Seventeenth additional provision. Health data processing

"1. They are covered by letters g), h), i) and j) of article 9.2 of the Regulations.
to (EU) 2016/679 the processing of data related to health and genetic data
that are regulated in the following laws and their development provisions:

a) Law 14/1986, of April 25, General Health.

c) Law 41/2002, of November 14, basic regulation of the autonomy of the

patient and rights and obligations in terms of information and clinical documentation.

d) Law 16/2003, of May 28, on the cohesion and quality of the National System of

Health.

e) Law 44/2003, of November 21, on the organization of health professions.

g) Law 33/2011, of October 4, General Public Health.”

v

On the legal position for the purposes of the RGPD of the claimed party, when carrying out the tests ordered
ned by the Mutual, and specifically on the possibility of access to medical histories of pa-
patients, there is a report that this Agency issued through its Legal Office, on
a query, 409/2009 of 08/05/2019, of the Health Service of the Balearic Islands, which was
can be consulted on the AEPD website. The query was about “communication to centers
private health services subject to agreement with the consulting Administration of the data contained
nested in the medical records of the patients who attended them, in order to achieve a
better health care, assuming that these private centers are not part of the System
National Health issue, but they are linked to it through the contract sub-
I believe with those." This would entail, for example, the possibility that these entities act
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/37

yielded to the guarded medical records and responsibility of the public health system,
since they are going to provide assistance to people protected by the aforementioned system.

Firstly, it analyzes the legal position in terms of data protection of said centers.
health centers in relation to the patients who attend them, considering them
responsible for the treatment, when preparing the clinical histories of the patients themselves
that they attend, according to the obligation ordered by the LAP, and that they are not limited to processing data by
charge on behalf of the contractor.

Regarding data processing, these are necessary for medical diagnosis, the provision of
provision of health care or medical treatment or the management of health services,
provided that said data processing is carried out by a healthcare professional subject to se-
professional credence or by another person also subject to an equivalent obligation of secrecy
and this "would enable access or communication to health centers, regardless
of its public or private nature of the data necessary to carry out the appropriate
health care of the patients who attended them”. That is, it is admitted that
these centers that arrange the provision of public health services, not yet forming
integral part of the National Health System can access the information of the pa-
patients to whom it is going to provide assistance, since they can develop assistance actions
directly linked to the public system, and it may even be understood that the same
but they constitute, insofar as they are the object of agreement, services of the aforementioned system.
ma.

It was added that "the first paragraph of article 58 of Law 16/2003, of 28/05 on cohesion and
quality of the National Health System, provides that "in order for citizens to
receive the best health care possible in any center or service of the System
National Health, the Ministry of Health and Consumption will coordinate the mechanisms of
electronic exchange of clinical and individual health information, previously agreed upon
with the Autonomous Communities, to allow both the interested party and the professionals
who participate in health care access to medical records in the terms
strictly necessary to guarantee the quality of said assistance and the confidentiality
and integrity of the information, regardless of the Administration that provides it”. Yes
It is well stated in the response that the consultant raises the problem that the centers
arranged are not an integral part of the National Health System, even when they are
linked to it, it is indicated:

“Indeed, article 44 of Law 14/1986, of 04/25, General Health
points out that "all public structures and services at the service of health will integrate the
National Health System”, adding that “the National Health System is the set of
the Health Services of the State Administration and the Health Services of the
Autonomous Communities in the terms established in this Law”.

Likewise, article 45 establishes that: “the National Health System integrates all
health functions and benefits that, in accordance with the provisions of this Law, are
responsibility of the public powers for the due fulfillment of the right to
protection of health” and article 90 enables the celebration of concerts with entities
for the provision of services, adding article 93 that "they may not be
linked hospitals and establishments of the private sector in the National System of
Health, nor may concerts be established with private health centers, when in some

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/37

of its owners or in any of its workers the circumstances that above
incompatibilities of the public and private sectors establish the legislation on
incompatibilities of the personnel at the service of the Public Administrations”.

Consequently, although not forming an integral part of the National Health System,
concerted centers develop assistance actions directly linked to the
system, and it may even be understood that they constitute, insofar as they are the object of
concert, services of the aforementioned System.

This consideration, together with the healthcare purpose that justifies access to the data
of the clinical history of the patient who is going to be the object of health care to guarantee
the best quality of it and, ultimately, their right to health, enshrined in the
Article 43 of the Constitution, together with the provisions that have been analyzed with
beforehand, allows us to consider that the transfer of the data to the doctors who have to
attend to the patient in the concerted centers, through access to the clinical history that
works in the Autonomous Health Service, is in accordance with Organic Law 15/1999, without
The adoption of no additional provision is necessary to allow said assignment.”

SAW

In principle, the prohibition of processing personal data relating to the
health, so the exceptions should be interpreted restrictively, so that they do not
may be included in said exception, other different cases, since this would distort the purpose
of the law and the guarantees established

The clinical history is decentralized at the level of the company group, which means in
the practice that, if the patient goes to any of the forty centers of the AFFI-
DEA, in Spain, the doctor who provides assistance can access, consult and carry out a
better and more complete care in the treatment given, although it must be limited to the
purpose that gives rise to the request for the report, and the legal position it occupies as a contractor.
with the Mutual, considering compliance with the sector regulations referred to in the
provision of medical records when they do not come from the same sector to which services are provided,
in this case on behalf of the Mutual collaborator in the management of Social Security
In this case, the Mutual was a recipient of data that ordered an acknowledgment of the claim.
ment in order to a diagnostic purpose so that they have to be communicated by the re-
called for an assessment report on the test performed on the right knee, so that
Mutual determines the contingency causing the accident suffered by the claimant, with the
test that is done on 08/27/2019. As a general rule and strictu sensu, without further details
to comment initially, it conforms to the assumption of article 9.2.h) of the RGPD "services of
healthcare and social assistance, on the basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States
bros or under a contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions
and guarantees contemplated in section 3”
But in this case, in addition, without ignoring that there is a legitimizing basis, it is analyzed that
giving the claimant in a contracted assistance regimen at the level of collaborating with the regimen
Public Social Security, are incorporated without the authorization of the affected party, as determined
undermines the CYL Decree as necessary, part of some findings of a care episode
prior, to communicate it to the Mutual, which is what is considered to violate the duty of confidentiality.
confidentiality, exceeding the data that without the authorization of the affected party are communicated
two, to produce in the public regime a denial of benefit as an accident,
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/37

considering data not only belonging to the private regime, and that is the least important
but due to the fact that this excess, when incorporating prior information without authorizing
and without knowing each other, because it seems that communication between regimes is not expected.
tions, it can exceed the scheme for which the legitimacy is found, as it does not adapt in
this excess of what is strictly considered the excess of assistance services
health and social care when attending tests preceding the date of the occurrence of the pre-
so-called accident whose treatment authorization was the reason for treatment and diagnosis
of the knee, and documentary authorization is not obtained from the affected person for the transfer of the
formation of the clinical history of the previous episode, data processing situation not
expected in a test in the field of the public system, and considering that the data to
that are accessed is not part of the aforementioned public system, considering that excess as
breach of duty of confidentiality

As such, its content should have been limited, not having compared the data with the first
history without having requested the informed authorization of the affected party, referring to the duties
of veracity in the information to be provided, the purpose of the test to be carried out, which has
its peculiarities with respect to those that can be practiced motu proprio, noting that the
informative data protection clauses used by the claimed party are in all cases
You are the same, without differentiating, and you must have obtained authorization for the contrast
of the original story.

This taking into account that the claimant does not claim for the transfer of their data to the MU-
TUA derived from the recognition that it orders, in fact, consented to the yield box
the results of that consultation of 08/27/2019, in the informative clause delivered, but by
a specific aspect that is limited to the communication of your confidential data by
of the content that relates or discloses data from your previous visit to another clinic of the Group
and that the doctor mentions in the report.

For private healthcare or health insurance companies, such as the
query attended by the claimant on 08/02/2019, with the entity CENTRO
DE DIAGNOSTICO CAMPO GRANDE SL, of the AFFIDEA group, assistance provided through
of the insurer ADESLAS, would have the effect of lifting the prohibition of treatment to the
voluntarily enter to receive the health care provided for in article 9.2 h) “diagnosis
medical ethics, provision of assistance” of the RGPD. This benefit was obtained motu proprio and
having previously signed a contract with the private insurer.

In the present case, it was not a benefit already recognized by the Mutual as
accident at work, nor was health care being provided at his expense, but rather it was based
in the recognition of the health status of the employee to determine whether or not it was an accident.
of work, an important issue to determine, given that it is normal for a base to
regulator for benefits for this cause is usually higher than that of common contingencies
in any service.

Without questioning the necessity and adequacy of the above test to complete the
ordered by the Mutual, improving in a successful diagnosis, the truth is that the first
executed on the claimant's own account under a private regime, which indicates that although
is part of a single clinical history instrumented or intended for adequate care
gives, of quality and correctness, the treatment of health data not only when they are practiced
the tests, but when the content of those tests is transferred, the ex-
exceptions of article 9.2 of the RGPD. Comprehensive data is being collected and processed here
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/37

of a previous session of treatment and diagnosis for a report intended to assess whether the
injuries come from or are related to an accident at work (management of systems and
health and social care services). That, only this part of the first report, which
contemplated and transferred to the Mutual is the one that is considered outside the principle of confidentiality.
ciality, by not meeting the requirement that the use of their data with-
had in the first episode of care on 08/02/2019, which could be a means of saving the
exception, by not concurring on the part that exceeds the cause that could serve as
exception for its treatment communicated to the Mutual, reaching a result
as is the one charged with breach of confidentiality.

In the present case, in addition, the condition in which the service is provided to the Mutual through
of the claimed, as a collaborator in the management of the Social Security of the
accident at work, it is not about the provision of health care, but within
of the same article, that of “management of health care systems and services and
on the basis of the Law of the Union or of the Member States”, although the claim
is always obliged to appear for the medical test, it is in order to determine if
the injuries or symptoms produced on 08/27/2019 in the workplace are appropriate or not
of a professional contingency, not to provide better medical care. the Mutual,
constituted by the set of associated entrepreneurs, knowing that portion of pre-
the benefits that the claimant had, decides not to treat the accident as a work accident, without
that the claimant was expected to have given consent or authorization to the
claimed for the communication of your data, which would exceed the content of the
which was attended on behalf of the Mutual, disclosing some data that should have been
kept secret by the claimed.

7th

As a consequence, the defendant is charged with an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD that
indicates:

1. The personal data will be:

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the personal data.
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their loss.
damage, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical or organizational measures.
appropriate procedures ("integrity and confidentiality").

Obligation dealt with in article 5 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of
Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), which pre-
cisa:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing, as well as all the per-
Persons involved in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of confidentiality.
referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the

duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/37

when the relationship of the obligor with the controller or processor has ended.
I lie."

It follows that the person responsible for processing the data that is part of the history
clinic is the doctor or health center, public or private; they have the obligation to ela-
erase it, guard it and implement the necessary security measures so that it is not removed.
not be communicated to non-interested parties or may be accessed by unauthorized third parties.
two. In this case, the health center is the one claimed, which signed a contract with the Mu-
tua FREMAP, furthermore, without mentioning that it is part of a business GROUP, nor
any relation to the management of the patient's clinical history. The parent company in Spain, GROUP
AFFIDEA ESPAÑA is the one that centralizes the clinical history so that all diagnostic centers
nostic access to the unique history, and the claimant did so.

Regarding access and confidentiality of the clinical history, article 2.7 LAP (principle
basic principle)

“7. The person who prepares or has access to the information and clinical documentation

nica is obliged to keep the due reserve”

This last paragraph is mentioned in the same rule, article 7: "The right to privacy."

"1. Every person has the right to respect for the confidentiality of the data
data related to your health, and that no one can access them without prior authorization.
scratched by law.

2. The health centers will adopt the appropriate measures to guarantee the rights
acts referred to in the previous section, and will elaborate, when appropriate, the norms and
protocolized procedures that guarantee legal access to patient data.”

From this it follows that the general rule is the confidentiality of all the information obtained.
taken by doctors in application of the LAP. Therefore, the non-possibility of
communicate data on previous healthcare services, both for being provided under the
private menu as because it was not on the second occasion of medical treatment or
assistance to the patient, but of collaboration to determine if the contingency was due to a
accident. In order to achieve that, he should have informed and obtained the authorization of
consultation of the clinical history of 08/02/2029, since it is health data. Given the
prohibition as a general rule, and the subsidiary exception in the treatment of personal data.
health, the communication or contrast with the first medical assistance for the collection of the
data motivated by the investigation of the relationship of episodes, in order to determine by
the Mutual of the contingency had a part that was adjusted to these ends, to the compa-
medical examination, but when contrasting the data with the original antecedents
infringes the duty of confidentiality of the treatment of said data.

To this must be added the peculiarity of the relationship established between the professional of
medicine and the patient, firmly based on confidentiality and discretion and of the di-
verses data related to intimate aspects of his person that on the occasion of it usually facilitate
litter
It is true that arts. 14 and following of the LAP favor "the maximum possible integration of
clinical documentation of each patient" in order to achieve adequate health care
ria, and hence the principle of unity of clinical history. This integration of the clinical history,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/37

tending to avoid the dispersion of health information about each patient, has as
beneficiary to the patient. Its unitary character is not predicated to facilitate diagnoses.
cos being able to collect all the previous data, from other processes, to adjust to a better
provision of the service, at least without the authorization of the affected party, since its purpose is not
in this case that.

When the LAP provides for the confidentiality of the data obtained in relation to the data of
health, communicating some data prior to the test to the Mutual, association of companies
grouped employers for the management of work accident benefits and with the finality
that the cause of the injury is concluded, the data from the
aforementioned area to a differentiated subject, with its own legal personality and who is considered
It is clear that neither the RGPD nor the LOPDGDD nor the LAP sectoral regulation authorizes such communication.
tion, assuming a violation of security measures by clearly allowing with said
action the infringement of the confidentiality of part of the data that is transferred to the Mutual, the
of the first assessment, when on 08/27/2019 the referral was made by the Mutual to determine
determine whether or not the contingency of work accident was present in said act.
Although arts. 14 and following of the LAP favor "the maximum possible integration of the do-
clinical documentation of each patient" in order to achieve adequate health care,
talking about the principle of unity of the clinical history, however, it is necessary to point out
that this integration of the clinical history, tending to avoid the dispersion of the information
over each patient, has the patient as beneficiary. The opening paragraph of
art. 16 of the LAP ratifies it, stating: "The clinical history is an instrument intended to func-
fundamentally to ensure adequate care for the patient."

The initial paragraph of art. 16 of the Patient Autonomy Law is clear in this regard: "The
clinical history is an instrument fundamentally destined to guarantee an assistance
suitable for the patient.

Thus, the claimant is informed in the second test that their data resulting from that assistance
are going to be transferred to the Mutual, which does not mean that they are about assistance and data and do-
clinical documentation that is generated in the first assistance, which is what was done, without
It is recorded that the claimant authorized or was asked for authorization to consult the
previous data. This point is of crucial importance, because information about the health of
people is part of the object protected by the fundamental right to privacy, such
as has been clarified, among others, by the judgment of the Constitutional Court 196/2004, of 11/15.
It is not considered that there has been a treatment that lacks a legitimate basis, since
that is not the imputed infraction, but in the treatment carried out, the way in which
that has been produced, incorporating part of the information and data of a medical process
previous, it has been caused, when transferring it to the Mutual, by the absence of security measures
contemplated, a result of making known the data of the claimant of a
part of his clinical history from a previous episode, being used for the determination of the
causal contingency, which could produce the non-estimation of it as an accident
of work.

Regarding security measures, due to the results produced, they must be implemented
differentiated levels for when the patient goes to a doctor or health center, primarily
private or public, distinguishing in the treatment of personal and health data, the possible
legitimizing bases, and the purposes to which the treatment responds, as well as the legal position
law in which the person responsible acts.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/37

It is accredited in this case, that the claimed, on 08/27/2019 accesses personal data of
a prior consultation of the claimant in the private regime, when he exercised collaborating functions
collaboration with the Mutual in the management of health care systems and services and
cial to determine the contingency on behalf of the Mutual. Breach of confidentiality
ity that materializes when introducing the terms of medical contrasts of the data in the in-
Form that refers to the Mutual, and that exceeds the data that could be transferred to it.

viii

The jurisprudence has ruled in some cases on the disclosure or ce-
collection of health data that can undoubtedly serve the purpose of diagnosing cer-
entirely an injury or a fitness for a job, but other rights in
game sometimes prevail. In this case it was the review in cassation
of a sanction imposed by the AEPD, annulling the Supreme Court Contentious Chamber
so-Administrative, Section 6) Judgment of 10/20/2009, Appeal 4946/2007 the
judgment appealed, and confirming the sanction.
This is a sanction from the AEPD to Mutua FREMAP, since the same Mutua had
attended a previous medical leave process in another company and the worker changed
business. During the trial period they did a medical examination, being the
Mutual itself is in charge of making these recognitions. The last day of the period
evidence received “a letter that was delivered to him bearing the FREMAP logo and it indicated
that "in view of the results, as well as the complementary explorations carried out
pathological data are objectified in relation to their job at the present time,
being considered SUITABLE WITH LIMITATIONS". "D. Samuel denounces the entity Fremap
for having included data that had been collected during the review of his disability
temporary, dated August 25, 2003, when he worked for the entity Tecnyconta, in
a report made on January 12, 2004, as a medical examination prior to his
definitive incorporation as a worker to the Vitrometal entity.” The sentence analyzes the
Non-consensual transfer of data to the company that declares the worker unfit, regarding
the medical data obtained during the stay of the worker in the previous company,
derived from an IT sick leave process in which the worker was treated by the mutual insurance company.
“As a consequence, Mr. Samuel's repeated medical data became
part of the medical record or medical record in the possession of such insurer.” Sentence
states as a general principle that "monitoring and control measures for the health of
workers will be carried out always respecting the right to privacy and dignity
of the worker and the confidentiality of all information related to his or her employment status.
health" and that "data relating to surveillance of the health of workers may not be
used for discriminatory purposes or to the detriment of the worker.” “From here it follows that
The general rule is the confidentiality of all the information obtained by the mutuals in
application of the Law on Prevention of Occupational Risks and, therefore, that the
possibility of communicating to the employer
the conclusions derived from the
acknowledgments made in relation to the aptitude of the worker for the performance of the
job" constitutes an exception. "In summary, in this matter the
unquestionably the maximum possible confidentiality, without there being any element in
the Law of Prevention of Occupational Risks or in the Law of Autonomy of the Patient that
allow us to affirm that the non-consensual communication of data carried out by Fremap

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/37

It was authorized by law.”

IX

Regarding the integration or interoperability of communication of the information contained
in the clinical history, Law 16/2003, of 28/05, on Cohesion and Quality of the National System
Health has thus developed a set of coordination and cooperation mechanisms in
some areas where this collaboration is especially necessary, among which the
establishment of information systems that allow this information to flow within
of the National Health System, creating specific bodies such as the Observatory of
National Health System –art. 1– or the Health Information Institute. The performance
cohesion of the National Health System that allows the existence of a public service
quality healthcare and equal conditions is based on an information system
that guarantees the availability of information and reciprocal communication between
the General Health Administration of the State and that of the Communities.

The example would be the article 36 of the law 16/2003 of 28/05 of Cohesion and Quality of the System
National Health, according to which: "In order that citizens receive the best assistance-
healthcare possible in any center or service of the National Health System, the Ministry
The Ministry of Health and Consumption will coordinate the mechanisms for the electronic exchange of
clinical training and individual health, previously agreed by the Autonomous Communities
nomas, to allow both the interested party and the professionals who participate in the assistance
healthcare access to the clinical history in terms strictly necessary to ga-
guarantee the quality of said assistance and the confidentiality and integrity of the information,
whatever the Administration that provides it”. Thus, it can be seen that the develop-
The projects for the exchange of digital medical records of the National Health System go
exclusively in the direction of the public system, a right to which any citizen has
ne at any point of the national territory. No potentiation of me-
mechanisms in which healthcare provided privately can consult and
access or interoperate with files of clinical records of the National Health System to
the provision of health care, because if it were the essential purpose of the clinical history
care, it does not seem that there should be restrictions or directly said system
would be planned. Usually, to obtain this history, the doctor requests it from the patient.
patient who will be the one to collect it from the health services. The CYL Decree is also
indicates the same meaning when indicating in its article 13 that “When a patient is receiving
health care in another center other than the one in which the clinical history was generated,
You must provide a copy of this when requested by the physician responsible for that
assistance, provided that it has the express authorization of the patient, except in a situation
emergency service in which he cannot provide it, in which case he must justify the need
assistance cessation of use of this documentation.

It follows that the transfer of data is linked to the regime in which the assistance is provided.
sanitary.

Article 53. 6 of said law indicates "The transfer of data, including those of a
personnel necessary for the health information system, will be subject to the legislation
regarding the protection of personal data and the conditions agreed in the
Interterritorial Council of the National Health System.”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/37

Defend the possibility of disclosing part of the medical history provided privately,
when it is being provided for the assessment of a benefit of the public regime, in this
case does not consider the purpose for which the information is added, did not take into account that
part of the story to be used in reference to the test ordered by the mutual, and not
extract the data in the public assistance regime, being a previous episode, it should have been
informed of your consultation and obtain authorization for the consultation.

This does not mean that the clinical history should be dissociated according to the private or public regime.
for the title that is provided, but that in the communication of this the guarantees are implemented.
aunts and information to the affected so that he decides and, where appropriate, allows such communication, de-
duly informed, with the consequences for the specific case by the regime by which
that is served
Regarding the allegation that in cases of emergency or medical treatment it is necessary to
So see all the medical history of the affected person's history, it should be noted that in
this case the purpose of the medical examination ordered by the Mutual and the data that
in the process are treated, they strictly obey the indicated determination, while
in cases in which if the conflict of rights raised actually occurred, it could be
value the vital interest of the affected person as an exception to the treatment, but it is appreciated that
is related to this case

On the allegation that not indicating the preliminary process of the first episode could contribute to
the consummation of a crime by favoring with his silence the perception of a benefit,
means that the type of article 307 ter of the Penal Code, includes:

1) Obtaining improper benefits from the Social Security system;

2) undue extension of the enjoyment of said benefits and

3) facilitation to others of obtaining undue benefits through the error caused-
by simulating or misrepresenting facts or concealing true facts,
causing harm to the Public Administration.

Correlating the first diagnosis as it happened undoubtedly favors decision making
of the determination of the contingency, but we are before a fundamental right, and
There is evidence of any artifice or deceit on the part of the claimant, being able to carry out the incorporation
of the first medical analysis with the appropriate information and authorization to enable its in-
corporation as a contrast in the test performed.

This possibility of data communication is not related to the prevention of fraud,
as the defendant alludes that would justify the interference in the intimate data of the patients
with undifferentiated access to health data. Personal privacy would be violated if the
obtaining data pertaining to the privacy of the worker rests on a use
extensive extension of these legal qualifications by reason of the entrusted purpose, substitution
altering the purpose of the rule to the point of making the affected fundamental right impracticable
or ineffective the guarantee that the Constitution grants. All of which leads to warning of the need
objective factors to achieve the incorporation of previous healthcare tests
for verification in the diagnosis to be made, as indicated by the duty of confidentiality.
and expressly article 13 of Decree CYL

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/37

X

Regarding the alleged typing error, apart from what has already been mentioned in previous points,
The infringement of the illegal treatment is not imputed, because for the data collected in the re-
knowledge related to health data on the part of the mutual insurance company, there may be a legal basis
gitimation, note that it has not been discussed about it, but rather in the result than in the
carry out the same occurs. The fact is not that consent is needed for the
mentioned treatment, but in the part of incorporation of contrast of the clinical history of
the first test, there was a result infraction consisting of making known
the same mutual health information for which there was no authorization.
duly informed of the affected person about transfer or consultation of the first episode of
medical attention, and the data is communicated, producing the infringement of the duty of confidentiality.
deniality This could have been saved, among other things, with proper information
on permission to access the history detailing the purpose, consequences and obligations
by the claimant.

The infraction occurs due to the lack of diligence established by mistakenly considering that
these data from that part of the clinical history can be communicated without further ado due to the fact
that the clinical history is unique in the Group, or contributes to the best and most accurate
provision of the contracted service, ignoring the informed authorization of the affected party.

Finally, it should be noted that the lack of response in the tests did not condition the pro-
nor does it affect the resolution, because nothing significant is provided in the response
that decant on one side or the other the estimated considerations. On the web there is an important part
of the second layer of information for patients, without clearly explaining some
any assumption related to what happened in this assumption.

eleventh

Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD refers to said infringement, which indicates:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:
 

basic principles for treatment, including conditions for consent

a)

treatment under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in this case requires observing the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the RGPD, precepts that, respectively, provide the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/37

Next:
"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
in accordance with this article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in
sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case
individually, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures referred to in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount
aunt in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a)

the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question, as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
the intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
any measure taken by the person responsible or in charge of the treatment to alleviate

b)
c)
the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d)
the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, given
account of the technical or organizational measures they have applied under articles
25 and 32;
and)

any prior infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the infringement.

tion and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
determine whether the person responsible or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent.
gives;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or certification mechanisms

cation approved under article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sanctions and
corrective measures":

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, you can also
will take into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the offender's activity and the performance of personal data processing.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/37

sound.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission of the crime.
infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the infraction.
tion, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution systems, in those cases in which there are
controversies between them and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of the
remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”
For the assessment of the sanction that would be implemented in this initial agreement, it is contemplated
plan the following factors:
The respondent is an entity in the health sector in which health data is processed (83.2.g) and
must have established protocols so that the information and data of the assisted service
potential provided under the private insurance regime is not transferred to those originating in the
public moan. There is a close relationship between the health data being processed and the data
of a personal nature, being a daily facet and linked one element to another.
As a consequence with the elements that are available, the penalty is imposed in 10,000
euros

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the graduation criteria
of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CENTRO DE DIAGNOSTICO ***LOCALIDAD.1, S.A., with CIF
*** CIF.1, for a violation of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5 of the
LOPDGDD, in accordance with article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a fine of 10,000 euros

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the DIAGNOSTIC CENTER ***LOCALI-
DAD.1, S.A.

THIRD
 : Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
 
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of 1/10 of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of 07/29, in
relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 12/17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/37

sanctioned and the number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document.
ment, in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is between the
days 1 and 15 of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the voluntary payment will be
until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if it is between the days
16th and last of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be until the 5th of the second
following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution
It will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the LO-
PDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties
may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day following the
notification of this resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulatory of the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, within two months
months to be counted from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in article
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the interest
The party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Spanish Agency.
Data Protection Label, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the Agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other registries
others provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1/10. You must also transfer to the
Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
ministerial. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious appeal,
so-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

