Decision

Diary no

2020-06-22

DI-2020-2278
Your diary no
A026.530/2020

The police authority

Supervision of the Police Authority
charge register according to the Act on
load register
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the Swedish Police Agency has remedied it
technical errors which meant that register extracts were sent out
the load register during the period 19 November 2019 up to and including the 13
January 2020 have become incorrect. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore takes no action
further measures.
The case is closed.

Account of the supervisory matter
Purpose and scope of the review
On 20 January 2020, the Data Protection Authority received a notification from
The police authority on personal data incident, ref A026.530/2020. The incident
referred to extracts from the debit register to individuals as under
the period 19 November 2019 up to and including 13 January 2020 has included for
too few or too many tasks. Against the background of the information in the notification has
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has decided to review the Police Authority's
personal data processing in the debit register. The purpose of the supervisory matter
has been delimited to include control of the authority's handling of

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (4)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-2278

personal data in the register extracts during the period for which the notification is made
the personal data incident refers to.
Implementation and method
During the review, the following has mainly emerged.
On 25 February 2020, the Norwegian Data Protection Authority asked a number of questions
The police authority for a written response.
The Police Authority's response shows that the load register during November
2019 was migrated to a new technical platform, which required changes in
the communication with the register extract system (RUT). The current one
the function underwent both unit tests, system tests and acceptance tests before
it was commissioned. The system is complex and a couple of flaws were discovered such as
caused inaccuracies in certain types of extracts from the debit register. Total
are 448 individuals who have requested information about themselves affected by
it occurred. The register extracts that have been sent to the persons concerned have
contained too little or too much information. Of the incorrect extracts referred to
Paragraph 407 such complete extracts as individuals may request in order to exercise
his right of inspection in the debit register and the remaining 41 incorrect extracts
referred to such limited extracts as individuals may request to exhibit
or hand over to employer. When the extent of the problem became known
the registry extract service was temporarily stopped while waiting for the error to be fixed.
The police authority has since supplemented the coding and thinning logic i
the system with what was missing after the migration to the new platform.
The police authority has stated that when a modernization or update of
the technical platform becomes relevant again, the tests will be organized
and designed so that similar errors will not occur again. The police authority
further intends to investigate the possibilities of automatic tests to avoid
errors in the future caused by the human factor.
Due to the incorrect register extracts, the Police Authority has
taken a number of measures. The authority has, among other things, published a
press release with general information about the incident as well as
notified all individuals who received an incorrect statement. Furthermore, have
correct extracts sent out to the persons concerned and the incorrect extracts
has been requested to prevent these from being used. The police authority has
further stated that they have followed up which extracts have been sent in and have made one

2 (4)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-2278

careful investigation and risk assessment of the 41 incorrect extracts that can
be used to apply for certain types of work.

Justification of decisions
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Section 1 of the law (1998:620) on charge registers states that the Police Authority
using automated processing must keep a load register.
The authority is responsible for the processing of personal data
in the registry. The Act contains provisions regarding the registration of
persons who have been convicted or have received a waiver of prosecution for crimes and applies in addition
the crime data act (2018:1877).
Section 2 of the Act on encumbrance registers states that the encumbrance register must be kept
to provide information on such load data as is needed in
law enforcement agencies' activities. The register may also be used
in order to provide an individual with information that is of particular importance in his or
her business. It can e.g. concern alarm installation companies or
individual employers in the healthcare sector who need to receive information about
persons to be employed in the business.
The investigation shows that the Police Authority has taken a number of measures
in direct connection with the authority becoming aware of the current issue
technical problem which meant that a number of incorrect register extracts out
the load register sent during the period 19 November 2019 inclusive
on January 13, 2020. Among other things, the register extract service was temporarily stopped in
waiting for the problem to be fixed, correct excerpts and information
was sent to the persons concerned and the Police Authority reported without
delay the incident to the Data Inspectorate. It happened
the personal data incident has not affected what information is available about
persons in the charge register or how long the data is saved.
In summary, the Data Inspectorate states that the Police Authority has
rectified the technical error which meant that register extracts were sent out
the load register during the period 19 November 2019 up to and including the 13
January 2020 have become incorrect. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore takes no action
further measures.

3 (4)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-2278

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by the lawyer Linda Olander. At the final processing has
also data advisor Agneta Runmarker and IT security specialists Johan Ma
and Ulrika Sundling participated.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2020-06-22 (This is an electronic signature)

Copy for information to: The Data Protection Officer

4 (4)

