REPUBLIC 

OF CYPRUS 

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER 

FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION 

 

 

 
Decision 

55239 

 
11.17.001.006.019 
Marikit Holdings Ltd (22bet.com) 

IMI Article 56 identification of LSA and CSA 
entry 
 
National file number 
Controller 
 
12 November 2019 
 
Marikit Holdings Ltd 
22bet.com 
Nicosia, Cyprus 
 
Dear Mr. XXXXX, 
 
Further  to  the  exchange  of  communications  between  the  Office  of  the  Commissioner  and 
Marikit  Holdings  Ltd  (22bet.com),  concerning  a  complaints  involving  22bet.com,  we  would 
like to bring to your attention the following assessment of the Commissioner. 
 
Summary of the Case  
 
The  data  subject  created  an  account  with  the  controller  (22bet.com)  in  the  context  of  the 
“Ronaldinho  &  Friends  vs.  Adler  All  Stars”  in  November  2018.  The  enrolment  was  a 
prerequisite so as to be able to participate to a competition. The data subject tried for days to 
delete  his  account  and  to  erase  his  data  on  this  website,  but  the  website  did  not  provide 
such opportunity. The data subject further sent an email asking the controller the deletion of 
his  account  and  to  erasure  of  all  his  data.  The  controller  did  not  comply  with  the  erasure 
request and alternatively proposed to merely block the account for one year.  
 
Investigation by CY SA 
 
Cyprus  SA  contacted  Marikit  Holdings  in  January  2019.  In  the  initial  response  to  the 
Commissioner  the controller  alleged that the data subject could not be identified, as it was 
discovered  later,  the  data  subject  did  not  provide  the  relevant  email  address  used  upon 
registration to 22bet.com.  
 
In  the  response  received  from  the  support  team  of  22bet.com  on  01/08/2019,  we  were 
informed  that  in  general  the  organisation  holds  data  that  can  be  requested  by  regulatory 
bodies in Cyprus for a wide range of purposes, including, but not limited to the following: 
 
1. Ascertainment of the fairness of the games offered 
2. Identification in accordance to KYC and AML requirements 
3. Resolutions of disputes, claims, etc. connected with the games offered 
 
Marikit  Holdings  further  alleged  that  is  not  in  a  position  to  delete  data  which  it  reasonably 
believe  will  be  requested  by  the  regulatory  bodies  prior  to  their  request  as  it  may  entail 
penalties and other reprimands.  Moreover,  Marikit Holdings  affirmed that  it  holds data until 
reasonably sure that no complaint shall be sent by the user to the regulatory authorities for 
which it could be called upon to give explanations with supporting evidence.  
 

The controller finally confirmed the data of the specific user were deleted as soon as it was 
reasonably possible to delete. 
 
Commissioner’s view and corrective actions 
 
Regarding the subject matter of the complaint, considering the fact that the controller reacted 
to  the  deletion  request  within  the  time-frame  provided  in  the  GDPR  and  eventually,  the 
erasure  request  was  granted  after  verification  that  the  deletion  of  relevant  data  would  not 
infringe other  legal  obligations  of the  controller, Cyprus  SA  considers  that  the  investigation 
proceedings can be concluded and no repressive measures are necessary. 
 
Cyprus  SA  reviewed  22bet.com  privacy  policy  and  found  that  the  information  provided 
therein is not sufficient to facilitate the exercise of data subjects’ rights. 
 
The controller is therefore requested to revise its privacy policy of 22bet.com regarding the 
exercise  of  the  data  subjects’  rights  and  bring  it  in  line  with  the  GDPR  and  inform  the 
Commissioner accordingly. 
 
The Commissioner reserves the right, in the event of any future complaints lodged by data 
subjects, to use all powers afforded to her by the GDPR and by national Law 125(I)/2018. 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner  
for Personal Data Protection 
 
 

