lnlorrnation Commissioner's 

Oflice 

• 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

To: Daniel George  Bentley, 

also known as Daniel George 

Of: 

1. The Information 

Commissioner 

("the Commissioner") 

has decided  to

issue Daniel George Bentley ("Mr Bentley"), 

also known as Daniel

George, with an enforcement 

notice under section 

40 of the Data

Protection 

Act 1998 ("DPA"). 

The notice is being issued because of a

serious 

contravention 

of regulations 

22 and 23 of the Privacy 

and

Electronic 

Communications 

(EC Directive) 

Regulations 

2003 ("PECR").

2. This notice explains 

the Commissioner's 

decision.

Legal framework 

3. Mr Bentley, 

whose address is given above, is the person 

stated in this

notice to have transmitted 

unsolicited 

communications 

by means of

electronic 

mail to individual 

subscribers 

for the purposes  of 
direct

marketing 

contrary 

to regulations 

22 and 23 of PECR. Between 1

December 2021 and 30 November 2022, Mr Bentley was registered

with the Commissioner 

as a sole trader  under 

the name Daniel George.

4. Regulation 

22 of PECR states:

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"(1)  This  regulation applies to  the transmission of unsolicited 

communications by  means  of electronic  mail  to  individual 

subscribers. 

(2)  Except  in the circumstances referred to in paragraph  (3 ),  a person 

shall  neither  transmit,  nor  instigate the  transmission of,  unsolicited 

communications  for the purposes  of  direct  marketing  by means  of 

electronic  mail  unless  the recipient of the  electronic  mail  has 

previously  notified  the  sender  that he  consents  for  the time being 

to such  communications  being  sent  by,  or at the instigation  of,  the 

sender. 

(3)  A  person may send or instigate  the sending of electronic mail  for 

the  purposes  of direct  marketing  where-

(a) that person has  obtained  the contact details of the recipient 

of that electronic mail in the course of the sale or 

negotiations  for the sale of a product  or  service to that 

recipient; 

(b) the direct  marketing  is  in  respect of  that  person's similar 

products and services  only;  and 

(c)  the  recipient  has  been given a simple means of refusing 

(free of  charge  except for the  costs of the transmission of 

the  refusal) the use  of his  contact  details for  the  purposes 

of  such direct  marketing,  at the time that the details  were 

initially  collected,  and,  where he  did  not  initially  refuse the 

use  of  the details,  at the time  of each  subsequent 

communication. 

(4)  A  subscriber  shall  not  permit  his  line  to  be used in contravention of 

paragraph  (2)." 

2 

5. 

Regulation  23  of PECR states  that  "A  person shall  neither  transmit,  nor 

instigate  the  transmission  of,  a communication  for  the  purposes of 

direct marketing  by  means  of electronic  mail 

-

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(a)  where the identity of  the person on  whose  behalf the 

communication has  been  sent has  been  disguised  or 

concealed; 

(b)  where a valid  address  to  which the recipient of  the 

communication may send  a request that such 

communications cease has not  been provided; 

(c)  where that electronic  mail  would contravene regulation  7 of 

the Electronic Commerce (EC  Directive) Regulations 2002; 

or 

(d)  where that electronic mail encourages recipients to visit 

websites  which  contravene  that  regulation. " 

6. 

Section 122(5) of the Data Protection  Act 2018  ("DPA18") defines 

direct  marketing  as "the  communication  (by  whatever  means)  of 

advertising  or  marketing  material  which is  directed to  particular 

individuals".  This definition also  applies  for the  purposes of PECR  (see 

regulation 2(2) PECR and  paragraphs 430  &  432(6) to  Schedule 19  of 

the DPA18). 

7. 

From  1  January  2021,  consent  in  PECR  has  been  defined  by  reference 

to the  concept of  consent in  the  UK  GDPR  as defined in  section 3(10) of 
the  DPA  2018[ 1 J:  see regulation  2(1)  of PECR,  as  amended  by  Part 3 of 

Schedule 3,  paragraph 44  of The  Data Protection,  Privacy  and 

Ill The UK GDPR is therein 
April 2016 ("GDPR") 
of section 

3 of the European 

Union (Withdrawal) 
Act 2018. 

defined 

as Regulation 

(EU) 2016/679 

as it forms part of the law of England 

of the European 

Parliament 
and Wales,  Scotland 

and Northern Ireland 

by virtue 

and of the Council 

of 27 

3 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Electronic Communications  (Amendments  etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019/419.  Article  4(11)  of  the  UK  GDPR  sets out  the following 

definition:  "'consent' of  the  data  subject  means any freely given, 

specific,  informed and  unambiguous indication  of the data  subject's 

wishes  by  which he or  she,  by a  statement  or  by a clear affirmative 

action,  signifies agreement  to  the processing of  personal data relating 

to him  or  her". 

8. 

Recital  32  of the  UK  GDPR materially  states  that  "When the  processing 

has  multiple  purposes,  consent  should be given for all of them".  Recital 

42  materially  provides  that  "For  consent  to be informed,  the  data 

subject  should  be aware at  least  of the identity of the controller". 

Recital 43  materially  states  that  "Consent is presumed  not  to be freely 

given if it does  not  allow  separate consent to be given to different 

personal data  processing operations despite it being appropriate in the 

individual  case". 

9. 

"Individual" is defined in regulation  2(1)  of PECR as "a  living  individual 

and  includes  an unincorporated  body  of  such individuals". 

10.  A "subscriber"  is defined in  regulation  2(1)  of  PECR as "a person  who is 

a party  to a  contract  with  a  provider  of  public electronic 

communications services for the  supply of such services". 

11. 

"Electronic  mail"  is defined in regulation 2( 1)  of PECR as "any text, 

voice,  sound  or  image  message  sent over  a  public electronic 

communications  network  which  can  be  stored in the  network  or in the 

recipient's  terminal  equipment  until it  is  collected  by the recipient  and 

includes  messages sent  using a short  message  service". 

4 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

12.  The  DPA contains  enforcement provisions at  Part  V  which are 

exercisable  by  the Commissioner.  Those provisions are modified and 

extended for the  purposes of PECR  by  Schedule 1 PECR. 

13.  Section 40(l)(a) of the  DPA (as  extended  and modified  by PECR) 

provides  that if  the Commissioner is satisfied  that  a person  has 

contravened or  is  contravening any  of the requirements of the 

Regulations,  he  may  serve him with an  Enforcement  Notice requiring 

him  to take within such time as  may  be  specified  in the  Notice,  or  to 

refrain  from  taking  after  such  time  as may  be so specified,  such steps 

as are so specified. 

14.  PECR  were enacted to protect the individual's fundamental right to 

privacy  in the electronic communications sector.  PECR were 

subsequently  amended and strengthened.  The Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in a  way  which is  consistent  with the Regulations' 

overall aim  of  ensuring  high levels  of protection for  individuals' privacy 

rights. 

15.  The  provisions  of the DPA remain in force for  the  purposes  of PECR 

notwithstanding  the  introduction  of  the  DPA18:  see paragraph 58(1) of 

Schedule 20 to the  DPA18. 

The  contravention 

16.  The Commissioner finds that  Mr  Bentley  contravened regulations  22 

and  23  of PECR. 

17.  The Commissioner finds that  the  contravention  was  as  follows: 

5 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

18.  The Commissioner  finds  that  between  1  May  2022  and  31 October 

2022  Mr  Bentley  sent  2,261,352  direct marketing  SMS  messages to 

subscribers,  contrary  to regulation 22  of PECR. 

19.  Mr  Bentley,  as the sender of the  direct marketing,  was required to 

ensure  that  he  was  acting  in compliance  with  the requirements of 

regulation 22 of PECR,  and to ensure  that  valid  consent  to  send those 

messages had  been  acquired. 

20. 

In correspondence seen  by  the Commissioner,  Mr  Bentley  admitted 

that  he could  not  obtain a  sufficient quantity  of data  of good enough 

quality  legally  to  be able to  satisfy  the  needs of his  business therefore 

this led to him sending  SMS  messages  "indiscriminately",  often using 

data obtained indirectly  through  third parties. 

21.  The  Commissioner's  direct  marketing  guidance  says "organisations 

need  to be aware that indirect consent  will  not  be enough for texts, 

emails or  automated calls.  This is  because the  rules on  electronic 

marketing are  stricter,  to  reflect  the more intrusive nature of electronic 

messages." 

22.  However,  it  does go on to say  that indirect consent may  be  valid,  but 

only  if it  is clear and specific enough.  If categories of organisations are 

referred to then those  categories  must  be tightly  defined  and  the 

organisation  wanting  to  use  the  consent  must  clearly  fall  within  the 

description.  Consent is not  likely  to  be  valid  where an  individual is 

presented with a  long,  seemingly  exhaustive list  of  categories of 

organisations. 

23. 

For  consent  to  be  valid it is required  to  be "freely  given",  by  which  it 

follows  that  if  consent  to  marketing  is a condition of  subscribing to a 

6 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

service,  the organisation  will  have to demonstrate  how  the  consent can 

be  said to have  been  given  freely. 

24.  Consent  is also required to  be "specific" as to the  type  of marketing 

communication  to  be  received,  and  the  organisation,  or specific type of 

organisation,  that will  be  sending  it. 

25.  Consent will not  be "informed"  if  individuals do  not understand what 

they  are consenting to.  Organisations  should therefore always ensure 

that  the  language used is clear,  easy  to understand,  and not hidden 

away  in a  privacy  policy  or small  print.  Consent will not  be valid if 

individuals are  asked  to agree  to  receive  marketing  from "similar 

organisations",  "partners",  "selected third parties" or  other similar 

generic description. 

26.  The Commissioner is satisfied from the evidence he has seen that  Mr 

Bentley  did not  have  the  necessary  valid  consent  for  the 2,261,352 

direct  marketing  messages  sent  between 1  May  2022  and 31  October 

2022. 

27.  The  Commissioner  is further  satisfied  that the actions of Mr  Bentley 

have contravened regulation  23  of  PECR.  This  finding  is made  on  the 

basis  that  Mr  Bentley  attempted  to conceal  his  identity  by  using 

hundreds of  unregistered pre-pay  SIM cards and  websites that did not 

correctly  identify  the sender or  instigator  of  the  messages. 

28.  The Commissioner has considered,  as he  is  required to do under 

section  40(2) of  the  DPA  (as extended  and  modified  by  PECR) when 

deciding  whether to  serve an  Enforcement  Notice,  whether any 

contravention  has caused or is likely  to  cause  any  person  damage. 

7 

IC 

lnlormation Commissioner's Office 

29 .  The Commissioner considers  that  Mr  Bentley's  actions  had  the  potential 

to cause  damage  to the  individuals  who  received  the  unlawful 

marketing  messages.  Some  of the messages  included content relating 

to loans  or  debt solutions which could have led to financially  vulnerable 

individuals  being exposed to  further financial harm. 

30.  In  view  of the matters referred to  above the Commissioner 

hereby  gives notice that,  in exercise of his  powers under 

section 40  of the  DPA,  he requires  Mr  Bentley  to take the steps 

specified in  Annex  1  of  this  Notice. 

Right of Appeal 

3 1.  There is  a right  of appeal  against this  Notice to the  First-tier Tribunal 

(Information  Rights),  part of  the  General  Regulatory  Chamber. 

Information about appeals is set  out in  the attached Annex 2. 

Dated the  5th  day  of  December 2023 

Signe 

Andy  Curry 
Head of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's  Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water  Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

8 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX  1 

TERMS  OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

Daniel  George  Bentley  ("Mr  Bentley") shall within 30  days of  the  date  of this 

notice: 

•  Except  in the circumstances  referred  to in  paragraph (3) of 

regulation 22 of  PECR,  neither transmit,  nor  instigate the 

transmission of,  unsolicited  communications  for the  purposes of 

direct marketing  by  means of  electronic mail unless the recipient of 

the electronic mail has previously  notified  Mr  Bentley  that  he clearly 

and  specifically  consents for the  time  being  to such  communications 

being sent  by,  or at  the instigation of,  Mr  Bentley. 

•  Furthermore,  Mr  Bentley  shall  neither transmit,  nor  instigate the 

transmission of,  a communication for the  purposes of direct 

marketing  by  means of  electronic  mail: 

(a) where the identity  of  the  person on whose  behalf the 

communication  has  been  sent  has  been  disguised or 

concealed; 

(b)  where a valid  address  to  which the recipient of the 

communication  may  send a  request that  such 

communications  cease  has  not  been  provided; 

(c) where  that  electronic  mail  would  contravene regulation 7 of 

the Electronic Commerce (EC Directive) Regulations 2002; 

or 

(d) where that electronic mail encourages recipients to visit 

websites which contravene that  regulation. 

9 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX  2 

RIGHTS  OF APPEAL  AGAINST  DECISIONS  OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section 48 of  the  Data Protection Act  1998 gives any  person upon 

whom an enforcement notice  has  been served a right of appeal  to  the 

First-tier Tribunal (Information  Rights) (the "Tribunal") against the 

notice. 

2. 

If  you decide to appeal and  if the Tribunal considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which the appeal is  brought is not  in 

accordance  with  the  law;  or 

b) 

to  the extent  that the notice  involved an exercise of discretion by 

the  Commissioner,  that  he  ought  to  have exercised  his discretion 

differently, 

the Tribunal will allow  the appeal  or substitute such other decision as 

could  have  been  made  by  the Commissioner.  In any  other  case the 

Tribunal will dismiss  the  appeal. 

3. 

You may  bring  an  appeal  by  serving a  notice  of  appeal  on  the Tribunal 

at  the following address: 

General Regulatory  Chamber 
HM Courts  &  Tribunals  Service 
PO  Box 9300 
Leicester 
LEl 8DJ 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 

10 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Email: grc@justice.gov 

.uk 

• The notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal 

within 28 

days of the date on which the enforcement 

notice was sent 

4. The statutory 

provisions 

concerning 

appeals to the First-tier 

Tribunal 

(General 

Regulatory 

Chamber) are contained  in 

sections 

48 and 49 of, 

and Schedule 

6 to, the Data Protection 

Act 1998, and Tribunal 

Procedure 

(First-tier 

Tribunal) 

(General 

Regulatory 

Chamber) Rules 

2009 (Statutory 

Instrument 

2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

1 1 

