
Published on June 6, 2022.
Senior expert advisor at the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data - 1 executor, to replace an employee who has been absent for a long time - until the employee returns from maternity leave to work, position (29)
Professional requirements: completed undergraduate and graduate university studies or integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies or specialist graduate professional studies in the legal profession; at least 4 years of work experience in appropriate jobs; passed the state exam of the appropriate level; knowledge of the English language; computer knowledge
In addition to the above conditions, candidates must also meet the general conditions for admission to the civil service, which are prescribed by the provisions of Article 48 of the Law on Civil Servants.
A person whose admission there are obstacles from Article 49 of the Law on Civil Servants cannot be admitted to the civil service.
People of both sexes can apply for the ad.
A person is admitted to the civil service with a mandatory probationary period of two months.
Persons who have not passed the state exam of the appropriate level can also apply for the advertisement, with the obligation to take the state exam in accordance with the provisions of Article 56 of the Law on Civil Servants. Candidates who have passed the bar exam are not required to take the state exam.
In the advertisement application form, which can be found on the website of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data (https://azop.hr/), it is necessary to provide the applicant's personal data (name, date and place of birth, residential address, telephone number , and e-mail address) and the name of the position applied for.
The advertisement application form must be signed by hand.
Application form_RM29
With the application, candidates are required to attach:

biography
proof of Croatian citizenship (copy of identity card, military ID, passport or residence card)
proof of work experience in appropriate jobs, i.e. jobs in the appropriate professional training and profession (electronic record or confirmation of data recorded in the database of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, employer's certificate of work experience in appropriate jobs, or other evidence from which it is visible on what jobs did the candidate do);
a copy of the diploma
a copy of the certificate of passing the state exam of the appropriate level, or the state professional exam (for candidates who have passed the state professional exam).

If the person has changed his surname and submits documentation with the old surname, proof of the change of surname must be submitted.
Documents are attached in uncertified copies, and the original will be presented before the election of the candidate.
Applications with evidence of fulfillment of the conditions must be submitted within 8 days from the date of publication of the advertisement on the website of the Ministry of Justice and Administration of the Republic of Croatia - https://mpu.gov.hr/, directly or by mail to the address: Personal Data Protection Agency ( application to the ad), Selska cesta 136, 10000 Zagreb.
This advertisement will be published on the websites of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data - https://azop.hr/, the Ministry of Justice and Administration of the Republic of Croatia - https://mpu.gov.hr/ and the Croatian Employment Service - https:/ /burzarada.hzz.hr/.
A complete application is considered to be one that contains all the information and attachments listed in the ad.
A person who has not submitted a timely and orderly application or does not meet the formal requirements from the advertisement is not considered a candidate registered for the advertisement.
A candidate who, in applying for an ad, refers to the right of priority for admission to the civil service according to a special law, is obliged to attach all prescribed documentation according to a special law with the application and has priority over other candidates under equal conditions.
A candidate who invokes the right to priority in employment pursuant to Article 101 of the Act on Croatian Veterans of the Homeland War and Members of Their Families ("Narodne novine", number 121/17, 98/19, 84/21), and Article 47. of the Act on Civilian Victims of the Homeland War (Official Gazette, No. 84/21), with the application for the advertisement, in addition to proof of fulfillment of the required conditions, he is obliged to attach proof of fulfillment of the priority conditions according to the list available on the website of the Ministry of Croatian Veterans through the following link: https://branitelji.gov.hr/zaposljavanje-u-drzavnoj-sluzbi/843.
A candidate who invokes the right to priority in employment in accordance with Article 9 of the Act on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities ("Official Gazette", No. 157/13, 152/14, 39/18 and 32/20), with an application for an advertisement, except proof of meeting the required conditions, he is also obliged to attach proof of the established status of a disabled person.
A candidate who invokes the right to priority in employment pursuant to Article 48.f of the Act on the Protection of Military and Civilian War Invalids ("Official Gazette", No. 33/92, 57/92, 77/92, 27/93, 58/93, 2 /94, 76/94, 108/95, 108/96, 82/01, 94/01, 103/03, 148/13 and 98/19), with the application to the ad, in addition to proof of fulfillment of the required conditions, the attach a decision, or a certificate from which the mentioned right is visible.
A candidate belonging to a national minority has the right to invoke priority in employment based on Article 22 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities ("Official Gazette", number 155/02, 47/10, 80/10 and 93/11 - Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia), is not obliged to prove his/her status as a member of a national minority.
The Commission for the Implementation of Advertisements (hereinafter: the Commission) is appointed by the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The commission determines the list of candidates registered for the advertisement, who meet the formal requirements, and invites them to an interview.
The time and place of the interview will be published on the website of the Personal Data Protection Agency (https://azop.hr/) at least five days before the interview.
It is considered that the candidate who did not participate in the conversation (interview) has withdrawn the application for the advertisement and is no longer considered a candidate.
The job description and salary information will be published on the website of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data (https://azop.hr/) at the same time as the announcement.
The selected candidate will be invited to submit a certificate from the competent court that there are no criminal proceedings against him/her, a certificate of medical fitness to perform the duties of the workplace, and the originals other evidence of meeting the formal requirements from the advertisement. Failure to provide them will be considered a waiver of admission to the civil service.
Candidates will be informed about the results of the advertisement by delivery of the decision on admission to civil service for a certain period of the selected candidate by public announcement on the website of the Ministry of Justice and Administration (https://mpu.gov.hr/) and the website of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data (https://azop.hr/).
Delivery of the decision to all candidates is considered to be published at the end of the eighth day from the day of publication on the website of the Ministry of Justice and Administration (https://mpu.gov.hr/).

AZOP_oglas_RM29
Application form_RM29
Job description and salary information_RM29
