 

 

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

 
PRESS RELEASE
 

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen
 

Bremen/Bremerhaven,
March 24, 2023

the

hers

fifth

annual report

since validity

publication

The fifth annual report shows: The GDPR means business!
 
on the occasion
the
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) shows the State Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of Information (LfDI), Dr. Imke Sommer, pleased that it was a success in 2022, too
to impose a significant number of fines under the GDPR in the state of Bremen. "The one from
Bremen's budgetary legislators decided to increase the number of employees in accordance with data protection law
Inspectorate has allowed in the last year 30 fines total
2,073,070 euros were imposed.”
 
Of the data in connection with the illegal processing of prospective tenants
The highest fines that have become known have been set aside against companies
Fines of up to 75,000 euros imposed. For example, they sanction the disclosure of
Employee data by the former to the new employer and the unlawful
Showing member photos at the entrance of a fitness studio. Also for violations of
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information imposed some information rights
fines. According to the GDPR, data subjects have the right to know which of their data is processed by
responsible bodies for what purposes are stored, used and passed on.
 
Addressees of fines were not only companies, but also
individuals. For example, they misused personal data that they received on the basis of
were aware of their professional position. After individual reviews, in which, in addition to the severity of the
Violations of fundamental rights also take into account the economic possibilities of these people
were fined in the amount of EUR 200 to EUR 1,000. Already in the previous year
fines of between EUR 750 and EUR 1,500 were imposed on police officers because
they had accessed police databases for private purposes.
  
A large part of the fines
in the
Employment Type. With 67 out of a total of 480 complaints was also included in 2022
clear part of which was received by the data protection supervisory authority in the state of Bremen
Complaints in this area. "Whether it's the ban on non-stop GPS, video or audio
tracking, the prohibition of unauthorized disclosure of personal data or the unlawful
access to e-mail inboxes by superiors is: The GDPR is serious about it
Employee data protection."
  

reacted to violations of data protection law

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Arndtstraße 1, 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 • Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

confirmed

proceed. So

personal data

 
However, data protection supervisory authorities can also act in other areas against the
unlawful processing
the
Bremen Administrative Court, for example, orders from the LfDI with which they can delete
had ordered recordings of digitally held advisory board meetings. Another result of
The supervisory activity of the LfDI was the observance of the GDPR in catering establishments, about which
guests had complained about video surveillance measures being carried out there. Also the
Data protection-compliant adaptation of software with the help of which data from insolvency debtors
were publicly visible on websites of insolvency law firms was on supervisory procedures of the LfDI
attributed.
The résumé of the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information after almost five years
Validity of the GDPR: “The GDPR can not only show its teeth, but also powerfully
bite.”
 
In the 17th annual report published at the same time
wants freedom of information
State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information from the soon to be elected
Bremen citizenship, that the list of the need for improvement, which has meanwhile become very long
of the Bremen Freedom of Information Act becomes wasteland: "The state of Bremen shouldn't do it
can take to give the Bremen Freedom of Information Act to the majority that the
Administrative transparency takes the top spot nationwide."
 
 

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

 

