                                                                   
                                                   

PRESS RELEASE

the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments of June 22, 2022

 
 

 

 

Data protection conference publishes FAQ on Facebook fan pages

 
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and
of the countries (DSK) published a list of often at its second interim conference in 2022
asked data protection questions and the associated answers (FAQ).
Farewell to Facebook fan pages.

Among other things, the DSK answers why the operation of Facebook fan pages
is problematic in terms of data protection law and why those responsible in the current
tuation does not guarantee the data protection-compliant operation of a Facebook fan page
can afford. In the FAQ, the DSK also points out that similar problems
leme also exist for other social networks and platforms. there are judgements
so far, however, only to Facebook fan pages.
 
The DSK emphasizes that the supervisory authorities are not concerned with a general ban on
Facebook fan pages, but about the legally compliant operation. Such a
can, however, without changes to the data processing by Facebook and its
Parent company Meta cannot be guaranteed. The exact legal issues
when operating a Facebook fan page, the DSK presented a short report
(https://datenschutzkonferenzonline.de/media/weitere_dokumente/DSK_Kurz-
report_Facebook-Fanpages_V1_18.03.2022.pdf).
 
With the answers, the DSK reacts to the great interest from civil society
and media. At the same time, supervised bodies should be informed quickly and clearly
the common legal opinion of the data protection supervisory authorities
will.

The FAQ will be published shortly on the DSK homepage.

 

Further information on the data protection conference:

www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de

Contact:

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
Graurheindorfer Strasse 153
53117 Bonn
Email: pressestelle@bfdi.bund.de

 

 

