 

 

 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

PRESS RELEASE
 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

March 4, 2022

 Cookies and Tracking – LfDI published

Assistance for operators of Internet offers

 

Of the

State representative

for

privacy

and

Freedom of Information Baden-Württemberg Dr. Stefan Brink has

a new help for operators of websites and

Smartphone app maker released. The FAQs

Cookies and tracking by website operators and

Manufacturers of smartphone apps are available on the homepage of the

State representative for download.

LfDI Brink pleads

for the waiver of extensive

monitoring

on the net and for tracking massively

reduce: “Cookies and tracking have made the internet and

our smartphones – once places of freedom and

Self-determination – now too intensively monitored

rooms made. These surveillance measures will

today perceived as ordinary - just as if there were

no alternatives to it. The encroachment on civil rights

sometimes so massive that people with the knowledge

that others have over them, economically cheated and even

politically manipulated,” says Stefan Brink. the clear ones

The advantages of digitization would be called into question if

- 2 -

only at the price of giving up our civil rights

are available.

Who uses cookies and other tracking techniques,

collects personal data from citizens,

processed and sold must meet legal requirements

note. Usually for tracking a previous,

informed and voluntary consent of the users required,

which frequently over

“Cookie Banner” is obtained. the

However, the requirements for this information are high.

The state representative offers to update the FAQ

now a practical overview, in which the standard error of

typical cookie banners and examples are given

be as privacy-friendly and without complicated

consent goes. Because: "Annoying cookie banners are

Tracking company used, privacy-friendly

Internet pages and apps can do without banners at all.”

The FAQ of the LfDI Baden-Württemberg ties in with the

"Orientation

the

regulators

for

the

Providers of telemedia (OH Telemedien 2021)" of

Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal states and the federal government (data protection conference, DSK).

It names possible risks of using in practice

Monitoring techniques and provides concrete support such as

for example for range analysis, which can also be carried out without the use of

person-specific control techniques is possible.

The state commissioner Brink: “We should all have an interest

have in it that citizens trust

in the

develop digitization. To do this, they must focus on it

can leave that their partly intimate information

not incidentally and for them completely unclear about surveillance and

control are used. The General Data Protection Regulation

provides the framework for upholding our civil rights

in the digital world - our FAQ shows you how to do this

and borders open.”

 

Further information:

- 3 -

The FAQ cookies and tracking by operators of

Websites and manufacturers of smartphone apps are on the

Visit the State Commissioner's website:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/faq-zu-
cookies-and-tracking-2

 

