1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00095/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 27, 2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter referred to as the claimant),
through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system in ***ADDRESS.1,
There are indications of a possible breach of the provisions of the regulations of
Personal data protection.

The claimant states that his neighbor, the respondent, has security cameras installed
video surveillance oriented towards your property.

Provides a copy of some police actions of the Local Police of the City Council of
***LOCATION.1 of September 29, 2020 where it is stated that, according to the
claimed, "(...) these are surveillance cameras, which have all the
documentation in order, stating that (...) a company will appear at the place
to proceed to install more. Upon being required to show such documentation
to the agents, he states that he does not know where he has it, that he cannot find it but that at
The next day when the new ones are installed, he will keep all the documentation.”

SECOND: These facts have already been the subject of a claim before this Agency through
of the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1, processing file E/03389/2019.

From this Agency the requested requirements were communicated to carry out
carry out personal data processing, indicating that, in the event of not adopting
the necessary measures to comply with those requirements, would incur in an infringement
of the provisions of the data protection regulations, which could lead to the start
of the corresponding investigative and sanctioning actions.

In response, the respondent submitted a brief stating that “(…) the
The only outside cameras that record are those installed by contract with the
Security company Securitas Direct Spain SAU (...)

The aforementioned cameras only record if an intruder is detected in your home, being in
at all times the data controller and manager of these Securitas images
Direct España SAU and not the undersigned.

On the other hand and for greater abundance, as has been indicated only and exclusively
they record images, if you access the interior of their property and they do not record in a
I continue to passers-by or strollers.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

Indicates that the claim is the result of a neighborhood conflict.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution dated 23
February 2021.

FOURTH: On April 28, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On May 20, 2021, this Agency entered the
allegations presented by the respondent, which, in short, indicates that he is not the
responsible for the cameras that are the object of this claim, that the person responsible is
the installation company.

SIXTH: On July 21, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice of tests, taking for reproduced, for purposes
evidence of the claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data and allegations presented by the respondent.

SEVENTH: On July 23, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated, in which
that, in accordance with the evidence available at this
sanctioning procedure, it was considered that the party claimed had arranged
several badly oriented video surveillance cameras, which capture images not only of their
property, but also that of the claimant.

Likewise, no photographs or any evidence had been provided that would allow an assessment of the
area that is captured with each of the installed cameras.

Based on the foregoing, it was appropriate to propose imposing on the claimed party the sanction of
€1,000 (Thousand Euros), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, and that, by
protection of the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, it was proposed that it be ordered
to the party claimed that, within one month from the date on which the resolution in
that it so agrees to be notified, proceed to the withdrawal of the camera that records the
property of the claimant, or to the reorientation of the same by reducing the angle
uptake.

In this proposal, a period of 10 days was granted so that the person claimed could
allege what he considers in his defense, as well as present the documents and
information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with article 89.2 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

EIGHTH: The respondent, in his brief of allegations to the proposed resolution,
reiterates, in short, that the responsible party is the installation company.

It has provided a copy of the contract with said company in which, in one of the clauses,
indicates that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

“f) If applicable, the activation of the services linked to the system or elements of
video surveillance will occur through any detection element installed at the
CLIENT, SECURITAS DIRECT will process the technical alarm signal and will record the
images and/or sounds received in local mode, as established in the regulations
Private Security and Data Protection applicable.

Therefore, everything related to data protection and regulations in relation to
Private security, is correspondence to the security company SECURITAS
DIRECT ESPAÑA SAU.”

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On January 27, 2021, it entered this Spanish Agency for
Data Protection a letter that shows that the claimed party has installed
a video surveillance system oriented towards the claimant's property.

A copy of some police actions of the Local Police of the
City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1 of September 29, 2020 where it is stated that,
according to the respondent, “(…) these are surveillance cameras, which have all the
documentation in order, stating that (...) a company will appear at the place
to proceed to install more. Upon being required to show such documentation
to the agents, he states that he does not know where he has it, that he cannot find it but that at
The next day when the new ones are installed, he will keep all the documentation.”

SECOND: The respondent, in his pleadings brief, has indicated that he is not the
responsible for these cameras.

To prove this circumstance, he has provided a copy of the contract with the company
installer Securitas Direct España SAU in which, in one of the clauses, it is indicated
that:

“f) If applicable, the activation of the services linked to the system or elements of
video surveillance will occur through any detection element installed at the
CLIENT, SECURITAS DIRECT will process the technical alarm signal and will record the
images and/or sounds received in local mode, as established in the regulations
Private Security and Data Protection applicable.

Therefore, everything related to data protection and regulations in relation to
Private security, is correspondence to the security company SECURITAS
DIRECT ESPAÑA SAU.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

On January 27, 2021, it had entry in this Spanish Protection Agency
Data claim for the installation of a video surveillance system oriented
to the claimant's property.

Article 5.1 c) RGPD provides that personal data will be "adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation.

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding intimidating
neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control transit areas
of them without just cause.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations, as this is
exclusive jurisdiction of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

The treatment of images through a video surveillance system, to be
In accordance with current regulations, it must meet the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Specifically, at least one badge must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with the purpose
to intimidate them or affect their privacy without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

III

The defendant, in his pleadings brief, has indicated that he is not responsible for
the cameras, and that the cameras only record images if the inside of their
property and not continuously to pedestrians.

To prove this circumstance, he has provided a copy of the contract with the company
installer in which, in one of the clauses, it is indicated that:

“f) If applicable, the activation of the services linked to the system or elements of
video surveillance will occur through any detection element installed at the
CLIENT, SECURITAS DIRECT will process the technical alarm signal and will record the
images and/or sounds received in local mode, as established in the regulations
Private Security and Data Protection applicable.

Therefore, everything related to data protection and regulations in relation to
Private security, is correspondence to the security company SECURITAS
DIRECT ESPAÑA SAU.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

IV

In the present case, it is appropriate to analyze the alleged illegality of the installation of a
video surveillance system at ***ADDRESS.1.

The proven facts show the existence of a system of
video surveillance composed of several cameras whose responsibility is the company
installer.

Likewise, it is necessary to take into account the statements of the respondent indicating that
the cameras only record if the interior of the property is accessed, not continuously.

v

The principle of the right to the presumption of innocence, recognized as a right
fundamental subjective in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, prevents imposing
an administrative sanction when proof of
accrediting charge of the facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the
themselves of the alleged offender and applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of
doubt regarding a concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to
resolve said doubt in the most favorable way for the interested party.

The aforementioned right to the presumption of innocence is also included in a
expressed in article 53.2.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (LPACAP, hereinafter), which
establishes that:

"two. In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the alleged
responsible will have the following rights:

[…]b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while
the contrary is proven.”

In relation to this principle, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 76/1990, of 26
of April, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails: “that the
sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating the
reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the person who accuses, without
no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in the
result of the tests carried out, freely valued by the sanctioning body,
must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.”

7th

After examining the file as a whole, it has been proven that the person responsible
of the video surveillance system that is the object of this sanctioning procedure is not the
claimed, but the installation company.

Therefore, according to the above,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the ARCHIVE of these proceedings as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

