 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

July 1, 2020

 
 
 Data protection and freedom of information to touch - new education center
of the LfDI opens its doors
 
On July 1, 2020, the Education Center takes data protection and freedom of information
Baden-Württemberg (BIDIB) as a new forum for modern fundamental rights
protection and freedom of information. It sets the advisory approach of the
LfDI innovative and was made possible by funds from the state parliament of Baden-Württemberg
light. Numerous social actors such as Constanze sent to the foundation
Shortly from the ChaosComputerClub (CCC), the Federal Data Protection Commissioner Ulrich
Kelber or Ulf Buermeyer from the Society for Freedom Rights (GFF) their digital
greetings.
 
For many citizens, the concrete implementation of the GDPR poses
one, companies, authorities or other civil society groups
poses a challenge - this is what the state commissioner for the data
Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Dr. Stefan Brink seriously.
With the BIDIB, citizens now have a contact point to
to eliminate security and get to know their rights better. In addition, should
Discussion events give food for thought and also critical voices in public
make public discourse audible. Stefan Brink on this: “We are in the middle of the
Digitization of our living environment, this dynamic development captures and changes
(almost) everything. The rapidly advancing digitization keeps throwing up new questions
on how our modern fundamental rights data protection and freedom of information
could and should develop further. Needs-based educational offerings that
Examine and penetrate fundamental rights from as many perspectives as possible
therefore of fundamental importance for society as a whole. Even if
Legal issues will be a focus of BIDIB, our events should
are not only purely legal, but also political, sociological or ethical

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

cover questions.” The planned event formats form the variety
activity of the topics: Classic face-to-face events such as workshops, training
ments, lectures and conferences should also be supplemented by digital educational offers
will.
 
The training center benefits from this as a legally non-independent institution
of the LfDI from the multifaceted expertise of its employees. In addition to five additional
The jobs that the LfDI received for the training center also bring themselves
officers from the authority with their know-how. That's how it starts
BIDIB now with concrete training and event offers, which are constantly
be expanded.
In addition, existing cooperations are to be expanded and new ones set up
such as with the chambers of industry and commerce, trade unions, political parties
or civil society groups.
 
The starting signal to promote public discourse has already been given: in a
ongoing series of talks, Dr. Stefan Brink Discussions with numerous
lead actors to various socially relevant topics. The prelude
This series of talks forms a dialogue with Jan Philipp Albrecht, who is instrumental in
involved in the creation of the General Data Protection Regulation. The conversation with
the Minister for Energy Transition, Agriculture, Environment, Nature and Digitization
of the state of Schleswig-Holstein can be accessed online here. Once it's location again
allowed, the upcoming talks will also take place in front of a live audience.
 
The founding and development phase of the BIDIB should be completed by the end of this year.
be closed. After a relocation of the authority planned for autumn 2020,
the training center's own seminar rooms with modern event technology
be available. The educational offer is aimed at all interested citizens
citizens, civil society groups, clubs, associations, companies
and authorities.
 
You can find more information about the training center at https://www.baden-
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/bildungszentrum/.
 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0.
Further information on data protection and freedom of information can be found in the
Internet at www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at
www.datenschutz.de. The press release is available online at
http://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.

