
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    04/26/2022
                                1st data protection day Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate of the BvD in cooperation with the supervisory authorities - exchange and specialist lectures for official, municipal and company data protection officers - on Tuesday, June 28, 2022, from 9 a.m. to 5.15 p.m., the Hessian officer for data protection and Freedom of Information (HBDI), Prof. Dr. Alexander Roßnagel, and the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate), Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, together with the Professional Association of Data Protection Officers Germany (BvD) e.V. Data Protection Day Hesse & Rhineland-Palatinate" for official, municipal and company data protection officers. The conference in the Metropolitan Hotel in Frankfurt am Main gives data protection officers from public bodies in particular the opportunity to exchange ideas with experts from the supervisory authorities on topics that deal with them in their everyday professional practice. This includes current issues of international data transfer and artificial intelligence in public administration as well as the structure of state data protection laws and their interaction with European regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Directive in the area of justice and home affairs. Current practical topics such as cookies, social media fan pages and video conference systems will also be examined in a total of 17 keynotes, lectures and panel discussions, some of which will take place in parallel. What is special about Data Protection Day is that the participants not only exchange information with each other, but also with their questions can approach the experts from the supervisory authorities directly. This applies both to the conference breaks and to the interactive final panel "The supervisory authorities answer your questions". The event will be moderated by Jürgen Hartz, the deputy chairman of the BvD, and Maria Christina Rost, head of the legal department and public relations department of the HBDI. Dieter Kugelmann, LfDI Rheinland-Pfalz, the motivation for the new cooperation event. "The implementation of appropriate and practical data protection works best where a professionally qualified dialogue accompanies it." HBDI Prof. Dr. Alexander Roßnagel adds: "The exchange between the official data protection officers and with the responsible data protection supervisory authority is an important element of professional training, mutual understanding for each other and the exchange of experience for everyone involved. It is very important to me to accompany and support this professional exchange." "We are pleased that with this data protection day we are offering a larger event in the west of the republic for the first time for our members and those who might want to become one ", says BvD CEO Thomas Spaeing. “We know from our congresses in Berlin and southern Germany how much data protection officers value direct dialogue with the supervisory authorities. That is why we have high hopes for this new cooperation.” The entire program for the “1. Data Protection Day Hesse & Rhineland-Palatinate” and further information on participation can be found at: www.bvdnet.de/datenschutztagBvD contact person: Managing Director: Karsten Füllhaase, Tel: 030/20 62 14 41, email: pressestelle(at)bvdnet. deChairman: Thomas Spaeing, 030/26 36 77 60, e-mail: bvd-gs(at)bvdnet.deBvD capital city office: Budapester Straße 31, 10787 Berlin
The BvD: The representation of interests of data protection officers With more than 30 years of experience, the BvD is the oldest representation of interests for operational and official data protection officers and consultants. BvD members are represented in all sectors, especially IT and ICT, industry/production, trade/sales, consulting and health and social services - and as constructive, solution-oriented data protection experts, they are an important partner for responsible company management. All board members, all heads of working groups, committees and regional groups of the BvD contribute their practical experience to the work of the association free of charge. With the founding of the European umbrella organization EFDPO, the BvD set the course for increased networking and communication at EU level.
                                return
                            



