Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments on November 24th and 25th, 2021
 
 11/26/2021
 
 
 
 
 privacy
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
102nd Data Protection Conference - Effective data protection through cooperation Contrary to the original planning as a face-to-face event, the 102nd conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) took place on November 24th and 25th, 2021 under the chairmanship of the state representative for data protection and freedom of information of the Saarland Monika Grethel as a video conference. None of the numerous meetings of the DSK under the rotating chairmanship of the Saarland data protection officer could be held in person due to the pandemic. However, the changed framework conditions for the discussion and coordination processes of the DSK provided important impetus for intensifying cooperation between the supervisory authorities. In addition to the establishment of additional, permanent exchange formats that has already taken place, the conference in the current year dealt with further potential for the further development of the DSK and the exchange between the data protection supervisory authorities via the DSK 2.0 working group. The interim results of the working group were reported at the meeting. With the aim of coordinated monitoring of cross-state collaborative research projects in the health sector, the DSK created the Research Data Task Force. In its role as a single point of contact and forum for regulatory coordination, the task force ensures a flexible and rapid response to the concerns of project sponsors and researchers and guarantees a concerted application of data protection parameters in research projects ) which obliges the federal, state and local governments to also offer their administrative services digitally via administrative portals by the end of next year. The conference accompanies the implementation of the OZG in terms of data protection law and is in contact with the leading Federal Ministry of the Interior, Building and Community and the Federal IT Cooperation (FITKO). With a view to the implementation of the Register Modernization Act, which requires the introduction of a uniform personal identifier for the use of digital administrative services, the DSK has appointed a representative of the data protection supervisory authorities of the federal states for the steering committee for register modernization. In addition to a representative of the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the state representative accompanies the further implementation measures as an advisory member in terms of data protection law. With the decision "On the possibility of non-application of technical and organizational measures according to Art. 32 DSGVO at the express request of data subjects", the DSK confirms that the technical and organizational measures to be taken by those responsible for the processing of personal data cannot be waived by consent within the meaning of Article 6 Paragraph 1 Subparagraph 1 lit. a GDPR. At most, in individual cases, at the express request of the data subject, non-application of specific measures to be taken according to Art. 32 GDPR can be considered take place in Bonn. Further information on the data protection conference: www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de Contact: Independent Data Protection Center Saarland Fritz-Dobisch-Straße 1266111 Saarbrücken E-mail: medien@datenschutz.saarland.de
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 PRESS RELEASE of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments on November 24th and 25th, 2021
 
 438KB
 