1/7

 File No.: PS/00423/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 17, 2021, D. A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant) filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
The claim is directed against IDCQ HOSPITALES Y SANIDAD, S.L.U., with NIF
B87324844 (hereinafter the claimed part). The grounds on which the claim is based
are the following:

The claimant, who provides his services as a physician at the Hospital
General University of *** COMMUNITY.1 (hereinafter, HUGC), states that the
HUGC Occupational Health Service, communicated to his head of service, the result
obtained in the RT-PCR test that was performed for the detection of the SARS-
CoV-2 (COVID-19).

In order to accredit it, it provides a copy of a screen print of some messages
of WhatsApp that the complaining party and his boss would have sent, after the
PCR, in which you can see, among others, that your boss would have communicated
that he had tested positive in the second PCR, and that the complaining party replied
that he had not been informed of the result. It also indicates that the Service of
Occupational Health mentioned, had not yet contacted him, to
notify you of the test result.

SECOND
 : In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
 
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the
data protection regulations.

There is no record in this Agency of a reply to the transfer of the claim.

THIRD: On August 11, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: On January 27, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified
in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

The initiation agreement was sent, in accordance with the regulations established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on February 2, 2022, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the party complained against submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that at no time did the Hospital
breached the confidentiality of the claimant's health data, since once
Once the result of the RT-PCR test was known, the Emergency Department tried to
contacted the claimant several times, but could not be reached, and
Since he was an employee of the Hospital, they had to follow the measures established in the
COVID action protocol. In this sense, the result was communicated to the
Occupational Risk Prevention Service of the Hospital and its head of Service as
responsible for his department to carry out the study of contacts and thus avoid the
spread of the virus in the health center, considering that not only could
affected the same employees but also patients of the Hospital. Likewise
adds that the communication of health data of the claimant by the Service of
Emergencies to the Occupational Risk Prevention Service and the Superior Head of the
claimant, does not imply a violation of the confidentiality of personal data,
provided that "in application of the provisions of the health, labor and, in
particular, of prevention of labor risks, the employers will be able to treat, of
In accordance with said regulations and with the guarantees that they establish, the data of the
personnel necessary to guarantee their health and adopt the necessary measures by the
competent authorities, which also includes ensuring the right to
protection of the health of the rest of the staff and avoid contagion within the
company and/or work centers that can spread the disease to the whole of the
population”, as indicated in the FAQs on the coronavirus published by the
AEPD.

SIXTH: On March 25, 2022, the instructor of the procedure agreed
carry out the following tests, in the following terms:

“It is AGREED to carry out the following tests:

1. The claim filed by
A.A.A. and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated during the
of admission to processing of the claim, and the report of previous actions of
investigation that are part of procedure E/04164/2021.

2. Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement
initiation of the referenced sanctioning procedure, presented by IDCQ
HOSPITALES Y SANIDAD, S.L.U., and the accompanying documentation.

3. It is agreed to require the entity IDCQ HOSPITALES Y SANIDAD, S.L.U. what for

Provide the following information and/or documentation:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

- COVID action protocol that contemplates the protection measures of
organizational nature, as well as collective and personal protection measures necessary
for the detection, notification, study and management of cases and contacts
in the work environment.

- Accreditation of the attempts to contact the claimant to communicate the
result of the tests, after which they communicated it to the head of the Service (re-
call log, screenshots, or even personal affidavit.
person who made the attempts).”

SEVENTH: On April 8, 2022, the respondent party provided the documents requested
cited, that is, the COVID Action Protocol of the Hospital and affidavit of
the person who made the telephone attempts to contact the claimant, in order to
to send you the results of your second RT-PCR test.

EIGHTH: On June 3, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

<< That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agrees
proceed to file these proceedings.>>

The aforementioned motion for a resolution was sent, in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on June 6, 2022, as stated in the certificate that is in
The file.

NINTH: The respondent party has not submitted arguments to the Proposal for
Resolution.
  
In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is recorded that on March 17, 2021, the complaining party filed
claim before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, whenever the party
complained communicated to his head of service, the result obtained in the RT-PCR test
that was performed for the detection of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (COVID-19).

SECOND: The respondent states that at no time did he violate the
confidentiality of the claimant's health data, since once known
the result of the RT-PCR test performed, the Emergency Department tried to contact
with him several times, not being possible and since he was an employee of the Hospital, they had to
Follow the measures established in the COVID action protocol. consists
incorporated into the file COVID Action Protocol of the Hospital and declaration
affidavit of the person who made the telephone attempts to contact the
claimant, in order to transfer the results of his second RT-PCR test, not
communication with the claimant being possible.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Examined the documentation presented, in relation to data processing
resulting from the current situation derived from the spread of the COVID-19 virus, in
In the first place, in general, it should be clarified that the regulations for the protection of
personal data, insofar as, aimed at safeguarding a fundamental right, it is
applies in its entirety to the current situation, since there is no reason
determine the suspension of fundamental rights, nor has said measure been
adopted.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the personal data protection regulations,
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27,
2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment
of personal data and the free circulation of these data (General Regulation of
data protection, RGPD) contains the necessary safeguards and rules to
legitimately allow the processing of personal data in situations, such as the
present, in which there is a health emergency of general scope.

Therefore, when applying these precepts provided for these cases in the RGPD, in
in accordance with the applicable sectoral regulations in the field of public health,
considerations related to data protection - within the limits
provided by law - should not be used to hinder or limit the effectiveness
of the measures adopted by the authorities, especially the health authorities, in the fight
against the epidemic, since the personal data protection regulations
contains a regulation for such cases that reconciles and weighs the interests and
rights at stake for the common good.

Recital (46) of the RGPD already recognizes that, in exceptional situations, such as
an epidemic, the legal basis for treatments can be multiple, based both on
the public interest, such as in the vital interest of the interested party or another natural person.

(46) The processing of personal data should also be considered lawful when it is
necessary to protect an interest essential to the life of the data subject or that of another
Physical person. In principle, personal data should only be processed on the basis of the
basis of the vital interest of another natural person when the treatment cannot be based

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

manifestly on a different legal basis. Certain types of treatment can
respond both to important reasons of public interest and to the vital interests
of the interested party, such as when the treatment is necessary for purposes
humanitarian, including the control of epidemics and their spread, or in situations of
humanitarian emergency, especially in the event of natural disasters or
human.

Consequently, in a health emergency situation such as the one referred to in
specific case under examination, it is necessary to take into account that, in the exclusive scope
of the personal data protection regulations, the application of the regulations of
protection of personal data would allow the data controller to adopt
those decisions that are necessary to safeguard the vital interests of the
natural persons, the fulfillment of legal obligations or the safeguarding of
essential interests in the field of public health, within the provisions of the
Applicable material regulations.

What these decisions are, (from the point of view of the protection regulations
of personal data, it is reiterated) will be those that those responsible for the
data processing must adopt according to the situation in which they find themselves,
always aimed at safeguarding the essential interests already so reiterated. But the
data controllers, as they are acting to safeguard said interests,
must act in accordance with what the authorities established in the regulations of the
corresponding Member State, in this case Spain, establish.

In the same way, and in application of what is established in the regulations for the prevention of
occupational risks, and occupational medicine, employers may treat, in accordance
with said regulations and with the guarantees that these regulations establish, the data of
its employees necessary to ensure the health of all its employees, which
It also includes the rest of the employees other than the interested party, to ensure their
right to health protection and avoid contagion within the company and/or
work centers.

However, the processing of personal data in these emergency situations
health, as mentioned at the beginning, continue to be treated in accordance
with the personal data protection regulations (RGPD and Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
digital, LOPDGDD), so all its principles are applied, contained in the
article 5 RGPD, and among them the treatment of personal data with legality,
loyalty and transparency, purpose limitation (in this case, safeguarding the
vital/essential interests of natural persons), principle of accuracy, and therefore
Of course, and special emphasis must be placed on it, the principle of minimization of
data.

Regarding this last aspect, express reference must be made to the fact that the data processed
shall be exclusively those limited to those necessary for the purpose
intended, without this treatment being able to be extended to any other data
personal data not strictly necessary for said purpose, without being able to
confuse convenience with necessity, because the fundamental right to
data protection continues to be applied normally, notwithstanding that, as
has said, the personal data protection regulations themselves establish that in
emergency situations, for the protection of essential public health interests

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

and/or vital information of natural persons, the health data necessary to
prevent the spread of the disease that has caused the health emergency.

Regarding the principle of limitation of the purpose in relation to cases of
processing of health data for reasons of public interest, Recital (54)
RGPD is clear, when it establishes that:

“The treatment of special categories of personal data, without the consent
of the interested party, it may be necessary for reasons of public interest in the field of
public health. This treatment must be subject to appropriate and specific measures to
in order to protect the rights and freedoms of natural persons. […] This treatment
data relating to health for reasons of public interest should not lead to
third parties, such as employers, insurance companies or banks, treat the
personal data for other purposes.”

From the examination of the documentation provided, it is interesting to note that it is a
absolutely exceptional situation such as the current situation derived from the
spread of the COVID-19 virus (pandemic situation, impossibility of contact,
risk of contagion…) and that the lack of communication of the results of the second
RT-PCR test, could have been life-threatening for colleagues and patients.

In this regard, taking into account that the communication to the claimant's superior is
carried out due to the impossibility of communicating to the interested party the results of his
second RT-PCR test, (there is an affidavit from the official who tried it), had
the purpose of monitoring the occupational risk policy, since it had to be prevented
colleagues and patients who had been close contact and only communicated to the
strictly essential person, to the head of the claimant's department, it is not
rational indications of infringement of data protection regulations
personal.

In accordance with the evidence indicated, it is considered that the facts exposed
do not breach the provisions of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, proceeding the file of the
present sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to IDCQ HOSPITALS AND HEALTH,
S.L.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

