  Wednesday, March 18, 2020 2: Press releases Data protection questions about registration requirements because of the corona virus - the Schleswig-Holstein State Commissioner for Data Protection provides information In the last few days, several new regulations have been introduced at short notice and measures to contain the corona virus (SARS-CoV-2 ) met. Some of these regulations lead to the collection and processing of personal data, for example when districts and cities are now introducing registration requirements in the service and craft trades. Marit Hansen, State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein, comments: "We live in a special situation in which the risk of infection to protect people and society requires quick and at the same time prudent action. The data protection regulations do not conflict with this. Of course, the protection of personal data must not be neglected. With all measures, it must be considered how careful handling of sensitive data can also be ensured in this special situation.” Hansen emphasizes: “Many people are concerned that their data is not being handled well. Our office can still be reached by authorities, companies and citizens, even if we had to restrict public traffic. The best way to reach us is by e-mail or the Internet form if it doesn't work over the phone. This is also important because so many new questions arise. And as always, the same applies here: If I receive information that personal data is not being processed lawfully or is even being misused, I have to intervene ex officio.” In general, data protection law – the General Data Protection Regulation in conjunction with the Infection Protection Act – is not subject to that against the competent authorities ordering the necessary protective measures to contain infections based on their professional assessment. As always in data protection law, the decisive factor is that only data that is required for the specific purpose may be collected and processed. It is the task of the responsible health departments and authorities to explain the purposes and the specific necessity. Basic considerations and information in connection with the collection of personal data in the catering sector (which is no longer a priority due to the closure of these facilities) or the registration requirements for craftsmen and service providers, as they are being ordered these days, can be found on the website of the independent State Center for Data Protection (ULD). Special information on data protection in the Corona crisis
It is now important for Hansen to give those obliged to help with how the new data processing obligations can be implemented in compliance with data protection: “Careful handling of customers’ personal data is – as always – a must. The data must be protected against unauthorized access. They may only be used for the intended purposes, namely protection against infection, by those authorized to do so. After the required retention period - this can e.g. B. be a month - the data must be destroyed or deleted. The persons concerned must be informed in a comprehensible form about the data processing and in particular about the purpose and duration of the storage.” The ULD is also available to the authorities that order these measures, on request, in order to design the orders and the specific implementation in accordance with data protection . The information from the State Commissioner for Data Protection in the Corona crisis is provided under the following link and updated regularly: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/corona/ If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de
https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/ Tags for this article: Corona, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure