 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  20/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Greece regarding the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

 

Adopted on 23 July 2020 

 

adopted 

1 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 4 

ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the EL SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 7 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 8 

EXPERTISE ........................................................................................................................ 9 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 9 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING .......................................................................... 9 

REVIEW MECHANISMS .................................................................................................. 10 

LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................... 10 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................................................... 10 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 11 

 

adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes. They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of  effectively  monitoring  the  code.  The  GDPR  does  not  define  the  term  “accreditation”.  However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

                                                           
1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

adopted 

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Hellenic Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “EL SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 28 May 2020.    

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks. 

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be  in line with the eight  areas outlined by the  Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

4. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

adopted 

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).  Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

EL SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the EL SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the EL SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

The Board is of the opinion that examples help in understanding draft requirements. Therefore, the 
Board  encourages  the  EL  SA  to  include  either  in  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  or  in  the 
complementary  guidance  to  the  requirements,  some  additional  examples.  In  particular,  the  Board 
encourages EL SA to add: 

  examples of the information or documents that applicants have to submit when applying for 

accreditation; 

  examples of what may constitute an internal monitoring bodies (i.e. ad hoc internal committee 
or  separate  department  within  the  organisation  of  the  code  owner;  section  1  of  the  draft 
requirements);  

adopted 

5 

  examples of data protection expertise (e.g. expertise may be demonstrated for example by 
submitting evidence of adequately trained educated and experienced staff in these domains, 
for example by means of a diploma, certification or a proof of experience; section 3 of the draft 
requirements);  

  examples  of  significant  changes  taking  place  in  the  body  which  lead  to  the  need  for 
reaccreditation (e.g. any change that impacts on the monitoring body’s ability to perform its 
function  independently  and  effectively  or  would  be 
likely  to  call  into  question  its 
independence, expertise and the absence of any conflict of interests or to adversely affect its 
full operation); 

  examples of the kind of information that the monitoring body is expected to include in the 

annual report (section 7a of the draft requirements);  

  examples of the different ways a monitoring body can be set up (i.e. a limited company, an 
association,  an  internal  department  within  the  code  owner’s  organisation  or  as  a  natural 
person; section 8 of the draft requirements). 

11.  According  to  the  Guidelines,  codes  are  a  mechanism  which  can  be  used  to  assist  organisations  in 
demonstrating their compliance  with the  GDPR (paragraph 10 of the Guidelines).  In this context,  it 
should  be  noted  that  specific  rules  and/or  practices  cannot  ensure  compliance  with  the  overall 
conditions  for  lawful  processing  of  personal  data  as  set  out  in  the  GDPR.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends  to  the  EL  to  replace  in  the  second  paragraph  of  the  introduction  the  phrase  “ensure 
compliance” with “help ensuring compliance” or “assist organisations in demonstrating compliance”.  

12. 

In the third paragraph of the introduction, the Board encourages EL SA to include a reference to Art. 
40.5 of the Regulation, this would allow to keep consistency with other paragraphs where references 
to  relevant  provisions of  the  GDPR  are  included.  Also,  in  the  Board’s opinion an  approved  code  of 
conduct can be used not as an evidence, but only as supporting evidence to demonstrate compliance 
with the obligations of the controller/ processor - the Board encourages EL SA to introduce relevant 
changes. 

13. 

In paragraph nine of the introduction, the Board encourages EL SA to use the term “monitoring body” 
instead of body. Also phrase “associated with” shall be replaced with a sentence that the accreditation 
of a monitoring body applies only for a specific code, as indicated in the Guidelines (see definition of 
the accreditation).  

14.  As  regards  paragraph  10  of  the  draft  requirements,  the  Board  would  like  to  underline  that  the 
accreditation  requirements  may  be  reassessed  sooner  than  after  5  years.  Therefore  the  Board 
encourages EL SA to clarify that the requirements may be reviewed periodically, also before the end 
of the 5 years period. Moreover, the Board notes that it is only the monitoring body that it allowed to 
submit  a  request  for  renewal  to  the  supervisory  authority.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  to 
remove a reference to the code owner, when mentioning request for renewal in this paragraph.  

15. 

In relation to the codes that are used as instruments for international transfers (paragraph 11 of the 
introduction), the Board recommends EL SA to delete the last part of the last sentence, i.e. “which will 
be considered in separate guidelines”, as it refers to a future event. 

16.  With respect to basic definitions and the definition of a “code member” the Board encourages EL SA 
to remove a reference to adherence. If a controller or processor signed up to the code it also means 
that he adhered to the code and its obligations. 

adopted 

6 

17. 

Finally,  the  Board  encourages  EL  SA  to  ensure  consistency  in wording  used,  in particular  regarding 
references to EL SA (HDPA and Authority are used interchangeably). 

 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

18.  With  respect  to  definition  of  independence,  the  Board  encourages  EL  SA  to  elaborate  what 
independence means. To ensure consistency such clarification could rely on the wording agreed by the 
Board in the previous opinions. According to the Board, independence for a monitoring body should 
be understood as a series of formal rules and procedures for the appointment, terms of reference and 
operation of the monitoring body. In Board’s view these rules and procedures will allow the monitoring 
body to perform the monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without 
being  directly  or  indirectly  influenced,  nor  subject  to  any  form  of  pressure  that  might  affect  its 
decisions. This means that a monitoring body should not be in a position to receive any instructions 
regarding the exercise of its task from code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the 
code applies, or from the code owner itself.2  

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

In Board’s view, when the monitoring body is part of the code owner organisation, particular focus 
must be made on their ability to act independently. Rules and procedures have to be established to 
ensure that this committee acts autonomously and without any pressure from the code owner or the 
code members. Bearing the above in mind, with respect to organisational independence, the Board 
recommends EL SA to elaborate and better explain in the section 1 of the draft requirements what is 
the ability of a monitoring body to act independently.  

The  Board  encourages,  for  the  sake of consistency  with  previous opinions,  to  replace  the  headline 
“Legal independence in decision-making procedures” with “Legal and decision making procedures”. 

In section 1.i.A, the Board, taking into consideration the importance of the ability to act independently, 
encourages EL SA to replace “independent in making decisions“ with a more broad term “independent 
in decision making procedures”.  

For  the sake of consistency  with  previous opinions,  in  section  1.i.B  the  Board encourages  EL  SA  to 
replace references to “people” with “personnel”. Also, the Board encourages EL SA to be consistent in 
use of “shall/should/must”. With respect to ensuring that the monitoring body shall neither receive 
nor take instructions/guidance  from anyone, EL SA is encouraged to indicate that  this requirement 
applies not only to the monitoring body but also to its personnel involved in decision-making process. 
As regards the example provided by EL SA and the reference to documents and recorded procedures 
currently applicable establishing its independence in decision making, the Board recommends deletion 
of the word “current” - in the opinion of the Board such documents and recorded procedures must be 
in place all the time.  

23.  As regards section 1.i.C and the internal monitoring body, the Board notes that the requirement that 
an internal monitoring body cannot be setup within a code member seems to be missing. Therefore, 
the Board recommends adding a relevant provision. 

                                                           
2 See paragraph 14 of Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian data protection supervisory authority draft accreditation 
requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR. 

7 

adopted 

24. 

The monitoring body must have sufficient financial and other resources together with the necessary 
procedures to ensure the functioning of the code of conduct over time. That is why, with respect to 
section  1.ii.A  of  the  draft  requirements,  the  Board  recommends  to  clarify  that  long-term  financing 
should be ensured. 

25.  With respect to section 1.iii.A, the Board encourages EL SA to explain what does “necessary” human 
resources mean. The Board encourages EL SA to consider making a reference to “sufficient numbers 
of  sufficiently  qualified  personnel”.  Also,  the  Board  encourages  EL  SA  to  include  a  reference  to 
technical resources necessary for the effective performance of monitoring body’s tasks.  

26.  As regards section 1.iii.C of the draft requirements, the use of sub-contractors implies that they will 
provide same guarantees and safeguards as the monitoring body. In this context, safeguards provided 
by  sub-contractors  cannot  be  proportionate  but  need  to  be  the  same  as  implemented  by  the 
monitoring body. Therefore, the Board recommend to delete a reference to “full proportion” in this 
section.  

As  regards  the  same  section,  the  Board  would  like  to  point  out  that  a  monitoring  body  is  always 
responsible for the decision-making and for the compliance with the code. With respect to who should 
prepare the final decision, there is no doubt that it should be made by the monitoring body, not a sub-
contractor, therefore the Board recommends to EL SA to use “shall” instead of “should” when referring 
to  the  monitoring  body  making  the  final  decision.  Lastly,  the  Board  encourages  EL  SA  to  explicitly 
indicate that obligations applicable to the monitoring body are applicable in the same way to the sub-
contractor. 

Finally,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  when  subcontractors  are  used,  the  monitoring  body  shall 
ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entities. The Board encourages 
EL SA to introduce a direct reference to effective monitoring. 

 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

27.  As regards section 2 of the  draft accreditation requirements, the  Board agrees  with EL SA  that the 
monitoring body shall have in place clear procedures to ensure that no natural or legal person carrying 
out  code  compliance  monitoring  tasks  is  linked,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  the  code  member  under 
scrutiny in such a way which may yield a conflict of interest.  At the same time, the Board is of the 
opinion that  such  links  should  also  be  prohibited  not  only  for  code member,  but  also  for  the  code 
owner and encourages EL SA to add the relevant reference.  

With  respect  to  the  same  section,  the  Board  underlines  that  monitoring  body’s  personnel  shall  be 
obliged to report any situation likely to create a conflict of interest. A clear indication that personnel 
does not have any situation which could compromise its impartiality in decision making could be of 
use. In this context, the Board encourages the EL SA to add examples which would clarify in a better 
way what situation could likely constitute a conflict of interest. 

 

adopted 

8 

  EXPERTISE 

28.  As regards section 3 of the draft requirements, the Board is of the opinion that the monitoring body 
not “should”, but, as it is obligatory, “shall” provide to the HDPA evidence that it has the expertise to 
undertake  effective  monitoring  of  a  code.  Also,  the  Board  recommends  to  clarify  what  constitutes 
relevant qualifications (i.e. an in depth understanding and experience in relation to the specific data 
processing activities, appropriate data protection expertise and operational expertise) and to add a 
reference to relevant training, as an example.  

29. 

The Board agrees with the EL SA, that expertise needs to involve the subject-matter (sector) of the 
code, in which case the relevant requirements that must be fulfilled can be specific, based on the sector 
to which the code applies. In this context, the Board recommends to clarify in section 3 that different 
interests involved and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the code should also be taken 
into account.  

 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

30.  With respect to section 4, the Board notes that it is mainly focussed on audits, however other ways to 
monitor controllers’ and processors’ compliance with the code should be included as well, for example 
review procedures, which can include such things as: audits, inspections, reporting and the use of self-
monitoring  reports  or  questionnaires.  Also,  the  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  that  it  has  a 
procedure for the investigation, identification and management of code member infringements to the 
code and additional controls to ensure appropriate action is taken to remedy such infringements as 
set out in the relevant code. In this context, the Board recommends to EL SA expanding this section to 
cover the above mentioned procedures. 

As  regards  the  same  section,  the  Board  underlines  that  the  issue  of  the  procedures  to  check  for 
eligibility  of  members  prior  to  joining  the  code  is  also  of  importance.  The  monitoring  body  should 
provide evidence of upfront, ad hoc and regular procedures to monitor the compliance of members 
within a clear time frame, and check eligibility of members prior to joining the code. Therefore, the 
Board recommends EL SA to reflect this in the text.  

31. 

The Board recommends to EL SA to provide more information about what is approved policy and who 
approves it or when referring to “policy” in section 4, to delete the reference to “approved”. 

 

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

32. 

In  order  to  provide  for more  clarity,  as  regards  section  5.A.b  of  the  draft  requirements,  the  Board 
recommends  replacing  the  sentence  “[i]n  the  event  that  the  body  finds  the  complaint  vague  or 
unsubstantiated,  this  shall  be  substantiated”  with  “[t]he  monitoring  body  shall  contact  the 
complainant in order to give the complainant the opportunity to further substantiate the complaint/fill 
in the missing information”. 

33.  With respect to section 5.A.e of the draft requirements, the Board, taking into account the importance 
of providing high level of transparency, recommends to EL SA to move the footnote to the main text.  

adopted 

9 

34. 

In section 5.B.a of the draft requirements the Board encourages EL SA, for the sake of consistency, to 
replace the term “the person who submitted the complaint“ with “complainant”. 

35.  With  respect  to  section 6.b  of the  draft  requirements,  the  Board  encourages EL  SA to  specify who 
assess what constitutes a relevant evidence. Also, the Board encourages EL SA to specify that such 
evidence includes information outlining details of the infringement and actions taken.  

36.  As regards section 6.d of the draft requirements, for the sake of consistency, the Board recommends 
to  replace  the  wording “significant  change  has occurred  to the monitoring  body”  with  “substantial 
changes in relation to the structure and functioning of the monitoring body have occurred”. 

 

  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

37.  As regards section 7, the Board is of the opinion that the monitoring body should be able to contribute 
to  reviews  of  the  code  as  required  by  the  code  owner  and  shall  therefore  ensure  that  it  has 
documented plans and procedures to review the operation of the code to ensure that the code remains 
relevant to the members and continues to adapt to any changes in the application and interpretation 
of the law and new technological developments. Therefore, the Board recommends EL SA to reflect 
this in the text. 

 

  LEGAL STATUS 

38. 

The  Board  would  like  to  underline  that  accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  does  not  extend  to  an 
assessment of compliance with the Regulation. Therefore, in section 8 of the draft requirements, the 
Board encourages EL SA to clarify what does “presumption of recognition” mean. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

39. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Hellenic Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

40.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1. Replace in the second paragraph of the draft requirements the phrase “ensure compliance” with 

“help ensuring compliance” or “assist organisations in demonstrating compliance”. 

2.  In  paragraph  10  of  the  draft  requirements,  remove  a  reference  to  the  code  owner,  when 

mentioning request for renewal. 

3. In paragraph 11 of the draft requirements, delete the last part of the last sentence, i.e. “which 

will be considered in separate guidelines”. 

41.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1.  Elaborate  and  better  explain  in  section  1  of  the  draft  requirements  what  is  the  ability  of  a 

monitoring body to act independently. 

2. In section 1.i.B of the draft requirements delete the word “current”. 

adopted 

10 

3. In section 1.i.C of the draft requirements, add provision that an internal monitoring body cannot 

be setup within a code member. 

4. In section 1.ii.A of the draft requirements, clarify that long-term financing should be ensured. 

5. In section 1.iii.C of the draft requirements, delete a reference to “full proportion”. 

6. In section 1.iii.C of the draft requirements, use “shall” instead of “should” when referring to the 

monitoring body making the final decision. 

42.  Regarding expertise the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1. As regards section 3 of the draft requirements, clarify what constitutes relevant qualifications 
and that different interests involved and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the code 
should also be taken into account. 

43.  Regarding established procedures and structures the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1. With respect to section 4 of the draft requirements, expand it to cover different ways to monitor 
controllers’ and processors’ compliance with the code and to ensure appropriate action is taken to 
remedy possible infringements. 

2. As regards the  same section, add reference to  procedures to check for eligibility of members 
prior  to  joining  the  code  and  provide  more  information  about  what  is  approved  policy  and  who 
approves it. 

44.  Regarding transparent complaint handling the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1. As regards section 5.A.b of the draft requirements, replace the sentence “[i]n the event that the 
body finds the complaint vague or unsubstantiated, this shall be substantiated” with “[t]he monitoring 
body  shall  contact  the  complainant  in  order  to  give  the  complainant  the  opportunity  to  further 
substantiate the complaint/fill in the missing information”. 

2. With respect to section 5.A.e of the draft requirements, move the footnote to the main text.  

3. As regards section 6.d of the draft requirements, for the sake of consistency, replace the wording 
“significant change has occurred to the monitoring body” with “substantial changes in relation to the 
structure and functioning of the monitoring body have occurred”. 

45.  Regarding review mechanisms the Board recommends that the EL SA: 

1. As regards section 7 of the draft requirements, make a direct indication that the monitoring body 
should ensure that the code remains relevant to the members and continues to adapt to any changes 
in the application and interpretation of the law and new technological developments. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

46. 

This opinion is addressed to the Hellenic Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

47.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the EL SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will  amend or maintain its draft decision. 

adopted 

11 

Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

48. 

The EL SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

adopted 

12 

