

Bonn/Berlin, March 9, 2021


Press release 5/2021


BfDI receives responsibility for the Environmental Information Act
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, will be given responsibility for advising and monitoring all aspects of the Federal Environmental Information Act (UIG). BfDI Professor Kelber said: “With the expansion of my tasks, I can also work for the citizens on the important issue of the environment. I hope that in the future even more people will be interested in political decisions and the reasons behind them. I would like to thank the German Bundestag for the trust in giving this new task to my authority.”



Source: BfDI

With the advisory and control responsibility for access to environmental information at the federal public offices, a long-standing demand of the BfDI is fulfilled: I am pleased that the difficult to communicate and impractical separation of the advice on information requests is finally history. Anyone who wants access to information from the federal authorities can now contact me in all cases and get support. It does not matter whether it is official information or environmental information.
Applications from citizens are processed on the basis of the UIG if, for example, construction matters, spatial or transport planning or agriculture and forestry are affected. Citizens are often very interested in information from these areas because they experience the effects in their immediate vicinity. The importance of the Environmental Information Act as a basis for claims for access to information has grown, especially against the background of climate change, which has become increasingly noticeable in recent years. So far, if the requested authority refuses to make the information accessible, applicants have only been able to take the time-consuming and costly legal action before the administrative courts. The new responsibility of the BfDI results from an amendment to the UIG that came into force on March 4th.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











