 

ORI Process/2019/1 1

                                                         GUIDELINES/2019/1

             Regarding the processing of personal data

              in the context of electoral campaigns and political marketing

 

Contacting voters and sending political messages to each voting citizen is

essential to the functioning of democracy, as an important contribution to the formation

of political convictions and for the creation of conditions of freedom of choice within the scope of

electoral acts.

In the context of political marketing and electoral campaigns, it is not ignored that political parties

politicians, political coalitions, citizen voting groups and candidates use

more and more personal data and sophisticated profiling technology to track

and adapt the messages to each citizen.

In fact, the use of data analysis tools, as demonstrated in the case

of Cambridge Analytica, allows you to systematize the information collected on websites,

social networks and computer applications (apps), relating to opinions, life habits,

characteristics and traits of each of the users, according to personality or

behavior created in an automated way, in order to adjust and differentiate the

information or political messages and influence one's choices.

The lack of transparency in these processes increases the risk of manipulation of access to

information and conditioning freedom of thought and opinion, in contempt

of the principles and rules that should guide the use of citizens' personal data.

For this reason, with several electoral campaign periods approaching in Portugal, the

National Data Protection Commission (CNPD) defines a set of guidelines

regarding the processing of personal data in the context of electoral and marketing campaigns

policy, with the aim of clarifying the legal regime in force regarding the treatment of

 

AV. D. CARLOS I, 134 - 1st | 1200-651 LISBON | WWW.CNPD.PT | TEL: +351 213 928 400 | FAX: +351 213 976 832



 

ORI Process/2019/1 1v.

personal data for the purposes of political propaganda, in particular the General Regulation on

Data Protection1.

These guidelines are primarily intended for political parties, groups of citizens

voters, candidates, as well as companies that provide or process data

personnel for political propaganda.

This document is based on Declaration 2/2019 adopted by the European Committee on

Data Protection on March 132, taking into account the measures

presented by the European Commission in September 20183, as well as the conclusions of the

Council and the Member States on the holding of free and fair European elections4.

 

1. Personal data that reveal political opinions correspond to a category of data

specially protected5. Thus, the processing of such data is, in principle, prohibited, and only

can be carried out under very strict conditions6. Among these, the hypothesis that the

citizens have given their explicit, fully informed, free and specific consent

for the purpose of political marketing.

 This presupposes the transparency of the processing of personal data: who collects the

data or who reuses them must inform the data subject about the

treatment; in particular, it must make clear who is responsible for the

processing of data, what information about it is collected and used, for

                                                 
1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of 27 April 2016, hereinafter GDPR.
2Accessible at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/other/statement-22019-use-personal-data-
course-political-campaigns_en .

3 In particular, the Guidelines on the application of EU data protection legislation

and the Recommendation on electoral cooperation networks, online transparency, protection against

incidents

in

cybersecurity

and

The

fight

against

at

campaigns

in

Misinformation: https://ec.europa.eu/commission/sites/beta-political/files/soteu2018-cybersecurity-elections-

recommendation-5949_en.pdf.

4https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-6573-2019-REV-1/en/pdf.

5 Cf. paragraph 3 of article 35 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights

of the European Union and Article 9(1) of the GDPR.

6 Provided for in Article 9(2) of the GDPR.

AV. D. CARLOS I, 134 - 1st | 1200-651 LISBON | WWW.CNPD.PT | TEL: +351 213 928 400 | FAX: +351 213 976 832



ORI Process/2019/1 2

what specific purpose or specific purposes are collected or used

the data, where they are collected (when the data has not been collected

with the holder).

 It is noteworthy that the duty of information falls on both those who collect

the personal data directly with the data subject (e.g., data brokers, companies

that provide computer applications or exploit social networks), such as

about political parties, citizen groups of voters or candidates

when using personal databases provided by third parties for the purpose

of political propaganda or political marketing.

2. Personal data that have been manifestly made public by each person, even

that are not data revealing political opinions, continue to be subject and

protected by the GDPR. This information may not be used by third parties without complying with the

legal obligations in terms of transparency (duty to provide information) and respect for the principle

purpose and the principle of proportionality.



It is important to clarify that this is about information manifestly revealed

by people about themselves in the context of social communication or, perhaps,

in social networks in a space open to the undifferentiated public, not being able to

legitimize in this way the use of information inferred from the data made

public by themselves.

 

3. Even in cases where the processing is lawful, i.e., it is based on one of the conditions provided for

in paragraph 2 of article 9 of the GDPR, companies and political parties (and other actors in the

context of election campaigns) must fulfill their other duties under the

GDPR, including the duty to inform people that you are reviewing them and

process your personal data, whether or not the data were obtained directly from

citizens. Political parties and candidates must be ready to demonstrate that

way they complied with data protection principles and rules.

 

 

AV. D. CARLOS I, 134 - 1st | 1200-651 LISBON | WWW.CNPD.PT | TEL: +351 213 928 400 | FAX: +351 213 976 832



 

ORI Process/2019/1 2v.

4. The uniquely automated decision-making process, including the creation of

profiles, when the decision affects the rights of the persons concerned or affects them

significantly similarly, is subject to legal restrictions. The definition of profiles

relating to the specially targeted transmission of information content or

disclosure of specific policies may, in certain circumstances, affect

citizens, so, in principle, they can only take place with the consent

explicit of the same.

 Therefore, when messages are specially addressed to a particular voter

or predetermined set of voters through an automated process,

adequate information should be provided to voters explaining why

receive a particular message, who is responsible for it and how

can exercise their rights as data subjects.

 

5. Furthermore, political parties, as well as groups of citizens, are legitimized

to process the personal data of its members or former members, or people with

who have regular contact in the context of their activity, as may happen with

party supporters.

 In this regard, it is specifically recalled that the lawfulness of processing

data does not depend only on the verification of the condition for carrying out the

processing, but also respect for the principle of data minimization

personal; which means that only personal data that is

adequate, necessary and not excessive in relation to the pursuit of the purpose

management of parties or groups of citizens in this context (not being

permissible, for example, the processing of geolocation data for

behavior monitoring).

 

AV. D. CARLOS I, 134 - 1st | 1200-651 LISBON | WWW.CNPD.PT | TEL: +351 213 928 400 | FAX: +351 213 976 832



ORI Process/2019/1 3

6. It should also be noted that, under national law, political parties and groups of citizens

voters may also access certain personal data of voting citizens in the context of

campaigns or electoral acts, namely:

i.

ii.

Lists of voters, with identification and address, residing abroad7;

Electoral census notebooks (which contain only data from

identification).

 

7. With regard to sending political marketing, there is a special legal regime applicable

whenever the sending is made, by any means (e.g., email, SMS, MMS, telephone),

in the context of electronic communications8 9. It follows that it can only be sent

political marketing with explicit, informed, free and specific consent to the

political marketing purpose of the data subject.

In other words, before sending marketing, the party, the group of voting citizens or

the candidate must certify that:

                                                 
7 The electoral process abroad obeys its own rules, which take into account the absence of voters from

National territory. Specifically, the addresses of the Portuguese residing there are indicated in the

voter registration (which is not the case with voters residing in national territory), with the

political parties legitimacy to obtain copies of those notebooks exclusively for the purpose of

promotion and implementation of the electoral campaign – (and only at this stage, such data must be later by them

deleted) – cf. 3 to 5 of article 54 of Law no. 14/79, of 16 May, as amended by Organic Law no.

3/2018, of August 17th.

8 It is the privacy protection regime in the electronic communications sector, approved by Law n.º 41/2004,

of 18 August, amended by Law no. 46/2012, of 29 August, in transposition of the European directive.

9 It should be noted that telephone calls are also included in the same regime, since the law

national does not exclude them. In fact, telephone calls (automated or not) can be even more intrusive and

disturbing the right to rest than other forms of communication, by their nature and considering the

time at which they are normally carried out.

 
 

AV. D. CARLOS I, 134 - 1st | 1200-651 LISBON | WWW.CNPD.PT | TEL: +351 213 928 400 | FAX: +351 213 976 832

ORI Process/2019/1 3v.

i.

Obtained contact, or contact and identification data, directly from the

holders and, on that occasion, he consented unequivocally, and through a

positive act, in its use to send political marketing; or

ii.

Said data were provided to you by third parties (e.g. companies) and that these

have proof that the data subjects have given unequivocal consent

and specific for the purpose of political marketing, therefore not enough a

generic consent for marketing.

 

 

 

It is reiterated that compliance with the principles and rules of protection of personal data,

particularly in the context of electoral campaigns and electoral acts, it is essential to

protect democracy. And it is a means of preserving citizens' trust in the State.

of Law and the integrity of the acts of election of its representatives.

 

Approved at the plenary session of the National Data Protection Commission on March 25, 2019.

AV. D. CARLOS I, 134 - 1st | 1200-651 LISBON | WWW.CNPD.PT | TEL: +351 213 928 400 | FAX: +351 213 976 832

