The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

PRESS RELEASE

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen

Bremen/Bremerhaven,
June 02, 2020

Open lists of guest data in restaurants: Violation of the right to self
decide to which private individuals mobile phone numbers and email addresses
be passed on
At the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information went in the past
There are numerous legitimate complaints about innkeepers having lists
with guest data laid out or passed around the restaurants instead of the data for everyone
record adult guest individually. Such lists are not legitimate, because with their help no
only the health department, but also other guests' names, email addresses or telephone numbers
and length of stay of fellow guests.
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. Imke Sommer, take these
justified complaints as an opportunity to explain which processing of personal data
Data are permitted and even required under the 5th Corona Ordinance, and what processing
are unlawful.
According to § 9a Paragraph 2 No. 6 of the 5th Corona Ordinance, innkeepers of all
Guests they are entertaining inside, time of entering and exiting the rooms and name
and document telephone number or name and e-mail address. This information must
keep them for three weeks and then delete them. Paper forms must therefore be shredded or
be destroyed in a similar way. The innkeepers are allowed to use this information
only pass it on to the health department. Must for every single adult guest
there is a separate form or each guest must be asked individually and then the answers noted
will. Open lists are forbidden because guests then also share information about the others
Guests can read and, in the worst case, even take photographs. So prevent individual recordings
Stalking online or by phone.
The purpose of the documentation is to trace the chain of infection. The employees of
Health department will be in the cases in which it turns out afterwards that
infected a visitor to a restaurant, with the help of the innkeepers
collected data about who was in the room with the now infected person and themselves
may also have been infected. The persons concerned will be informed about this by e-mail or telephone
informed.
From the numerous complaints, it is clear to the state representative that many innkeepers
and restaurateurs have misunderstood the rule and asks all guests facing such lists
encounter, the innkeepers first to point out their mistake. Unless himself
Should innkeepers show unreasonableness, guests can contact the
Complain to the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information.
In this context, the State Commissioner also points out that the
Innkeepers have to explain to their guests exactly what happens to their data
becomes. This also includes describing to their guests how they keep the information safe
preserve and how they will destroy them. Guests must also be informed that they

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Arndtstraße 1, 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Fax: 0421 - 496 - 18495 • Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

a right to information, a right to rectification, and after three weeks the right to erasure
of the data and contact the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
can complain about it if they have the impression that the innkeepers themselves
don't follow the rules.
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information is certain: “With legitimate
Werder players, but also the rest of us, have individual forms when visiting restaurants
Corona times good chances that we will keep it in our own hands, to which people
we pass on our cell phone number and to which ones we don’t.”
 
 
 
 

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

