1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00112/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), dated 10/31/2019, filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against SECREYO SERVICIOS DE TELESCRETARIADO, S.L. with NIF
B14851612 (hereinafter the claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are:
that without consent to the processing of personal data, or having
maintained any type of commercial relationship with the claimed party, has received a message from
e-mail of commercial content, without mention of the origin of the data. The
message contains a so-called unsubscribe link, but it is completely
inoperative (since it does not link to any page). Also, the information about
protection of personal data included in the message is insufficient and does not comply with
the existing regulations nor does the privacy policy of the website.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 12/11/2019, the claim filed was transferred to the claimant for
analysis and was also required so that within a month he sent to the
Agency certain information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that the
claimant has received communication of that decision.

- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the

- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of

claim.

similar incidents.

- Any other that you consider relevant.

On 02/28/2020, the respondent indicated in summary not knowing exactly what
where did you get the claimant data; indicates that they carry out recruitment campaigns
of clients and that their addresses are usually obtained or from other satisfied clients
with their work or from bar association listings. You have sent an email
apology email to the complainant.

THIRD: On 03/19/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 06/16/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure for the one claimed by a) The alleged

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in accordance with the provisions of article
83.5.b) of the RGPD and b) the alleged infringement of article 22.1) of the LSSI, punishable
in accordance with the provisions of article 38.4.d) of the aforementioned Law.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 10/31/2019, the claimant submitted a letter to the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, stating that without consent for the treatment
of personal data or having maintained any type of commercial relationship with the
sending company, received email message with commercial content; that
the aforementioned message contained a supposed link to unsubscribe, being
completely inoperative; that, likewise, the information included in it does not comply with
the regulations on data protection (nor does the privacy policy
website privacy).

SECOND: The claimant provides a copy of the email sent by the claimant on
10/31/2019, as well as its header, whose object is: SPECIAL OFFER 1 MONTH
FREE LAWYERS AND ATTORNEYS, with the following content:
 
“SPECIAL OFFER FOR THE LEGAL SECTOR:
 WE MANAGE YOUR CALLS AND YOUR APPOINTMENTS IN REAL TIME.
 WE ANSWER WITH THE NAME OF YOUR FIRM IN EXTENSIVE HOURS
LABOR.
 WE MAKE CALLS TO REMEMBER AN INVOICE, CHANGE AN
QUOTE OR
CONFIRM IT, ORGANIZE A MEETING, MAKE A RESERVATION ETC.
 EMAIL MANAGEMENT, SMS SENDING, PERSONALIZED VOICEMAIL
OUTSIDE
SCHEDULE.
 ALL YOUR CALLS ARE ANSWERED IN A PROFESSIONAL WAY AND NO ONE
WILL NOTICE
THAT WE ARE NOT IN HIS OFFICE”.

The Legal Notice included in the e-mail does not contain any reference to the regulations in
matter of protection of personal data.
THIRD: On 02/18/2020, the respondent responded by stating that: "... after the
summer, that's usually when we launch one of our campaigns, and this time,
We look for contacts on Icab pages in Barcelona, looking for addresses of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

lawyers and mediators, to send you some mails or emails with our
offers in order to work with us.
This was the case of this Mr. Solsona, whose email address we located through
of these web pages of Barcelona del Icab, or Web Cover of the Bar Association,
through the Lawyer search option”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

At the same time, in accordance with the provisions of article 43.1, paragraph
second, of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Society of the
Information and Electronic Commerce (hereinafter LSSI) is competent to initiate and
resolve this sanctioning procedure the Director of the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection, in relation to the infringement of the LSSI.

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed
responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
If you do not make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the procedure
initiated.

III

Two infractions are imputed to the defendant: the violation of article 21.1 of the

LSSI and the violation of article 13 of the RGPD.

A) Infringement of the LSSI

The accredited facts consisting of the sending of a communication
unauthorized commercial, via e-mail, to the e-mail address owned by the
claimant evidences the violation of the provisions of article 21.1 of the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic (hereinafter LSSI), which provides the following:

"1. Sending advertising or promotional communications is prohibited.
by email or other equivalent means of electronic communication that
previously they had not been requested or expressly authorized by the
their recipients.

2. The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply when there is a
prior contractual relationship, provided that the provider had legally obtained
the contact details of the recipient and will use them to send communications
commercial references to products or services of your own company that are
similar to those initially contracted with the client.

In any case, the provider must offer the recipient the possibility of
Oppose the processing of your data for promotional purposes by means of a
simple and free procedure, both at the time of data collection and
in each of the commercial communications that you direct.

When the communications have been sent by email,
said means must necessarily consist of the inclusion of a mailing address
email or other valid electronic address where you can exercise this
right, being prohibited the sending of communications that do not include said
address."

The aforementioned infraction is typified as minor in article 38.4.d) of
the LSSI, which qualifies as such "The sending of commercial communications by mail

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

electronic or other equivalent means of electronic communication when in said
shipments do not meet the requirements established in article 21 and do not constitute
Serious offense".

In the present case, the infraction of article 21.1 of the LSSI that is imputed to the
claimed must be classified as a minor infraction in consideration of the number of
commercial messages sent to the complainant (1).

On the other hand, in article 39 bis of the LSSI, under the heading "Moderation of

sanctions”, stipulates the following:

"1. The sanctioning body will establish the amount of the sanction applying the
scale relative to the class of offenses immediately preceding in severity
that in which the one considered in the case in question is integrated, in the following
assumptions:

a) When there is a qualified decrease in the guilt of the
accused or of the unlawfulness of the act as a consequence of the
significant concurrence of several of the criteria set forth in article 40.
b) When the infringing entity has regularized the irregular situation of
diligent way.
c) When it can be seen that the behavior of the affected party has been able to induce
the commission of the offence.
d) When the offender has spontaneously admitted his guilt.
e) When a merger process by absorption has taken place and the
infraction was prior to said process, not being attributable to the entity
absorbent.

2. The bodies with sanctioning competence, taking into account the nature of the
facts and the significant concurrence of the criteria established in section
above, they may agree not to initiate the opening of the sanctioning procedure and, in its
place, warn the responsible subject, so that within the period that the body
sanctioning determines, proves the adoption of the corrective measures that, in each
case, are pertinent, provided that the following presuppositions concur:

a) That the facts constituted a minor or serious infraction in accordance with the
provided in this Law.
b) That the competent body had not sanctioned or warned
prior to the offender as a result of committing offenses
provided in this Law.

If the warning is not addressed within the period that the sanctioning body
determined, the corresponding procedure will be opened
sanctioned for said non-compliance.”

For its part, article 40 of the LSSI, in relation to the "Graduation of the

amount of the sanctions”, determines the following:

“Article 40. Graduation of the amount of sanctions.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

The amount of the fines imposed will be graduated according to the

following criteria:

a) The existence of intentionality.
b) Period of time during which the infraction has been committed.
c) Recidivism due to commission of infractions of the same nature, when
so it has been declared by firm resolution.
d) The nature and amount of the damage caused.
e) The benefits obtained by the infraction.
f) Billing volume affected by the infraction committed.
g) Adherence to a code of conduct or a system of self-regulation
advertising applicable regarding the infraction committed, which complies with the
provided in article 18 or in the eighth final provision and that has been
favorably informed by the competent body or bodies.”

In this case, the requirements set out in letters a) and
b) of the aforementioned section 2 of article 39 bis. Along with this, there is a decrease in the
guilt of the defendant taking into account the number of communications
commercials sent (one) and that the circumstances concur in a significant way
of non-existence of damages and lack of evidence of benefits obtained by the
commission of the offence.

In accordance with these criteria, the sanction of

warning.

B) Violation of the RGPD

IV

The claimed facts also show the violation of the RGPD as
consequence of the lack of information on the protection of personal data
contained in the privacy policy in breach of what is stated in the article
13 of the GDPR.

 This article determines the information that must be provided to the interested party

at the time of collecting your data, establishing the following:

 
“Article 13. Information that must be provided when personal data is

obtain from the interested party.

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis
legal treatment; 4.5.2016 L 119/40 Official Journal of the European Union
IT IS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the
legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a
adequacy decision of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers
indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph,
reference to adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining
a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or
the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the
right to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw the
consent at any time, without affecting the legality of the
treatment based on consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is
obliged to provide personal data and is informed of the possible
consequences of not providing such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and
anticipated consequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

The privacy policy of the respondent does not contain any reference to the
compliance with the provisions of article 13 of the aforementioned GDPR,
must establish reference to what is indicated in it as the identity of the
responsible, the purposes for which the data is intended, the rights that the interested party
can exercise before the person in charge, etc.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

v

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD considers that the infringement of “the rights of
those interested in accordance with articles 12 to 22”, is punishable, in accordance with the
 “with fines
section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation,
administrative fees of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates: “Infringements considered very serious:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.

(…)”

However, article 58.2 of the REPD provides the following: "Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)”

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2. b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations. About
when it is appropriate to opt for one or the other route, the application of article 83 of the RGPD
or the corrective measure of warning of article 58.2.b), the rule itself in its
Recital 148 of Regulation 2016/679, which establishes the following:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

However, in the initial agreement the respondent was already told that he had to
provide sufficient supporting documentation to prove correct compliance

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

of those indicated in the RGPD, among others the information referred to in the
Article 13, without prejudice to making as many allegations as it deems necessary.

Since the respondent has not responded to the initial agreement, it is reiterated that
must adopt the necessary measures in order to adapt its privacy policy to the
provided in article 13 of the RGPD, in order to provide users with the information
required in the aforementioned precept and prevent incidents such as
revealed in the claim made, as well as the contribution of the
means of evidence accrediting compliance with the requirements.

On the other hand, not correcting the aforementioned deficiencies by adopting the measures
adequate to avoid infractions such as those contemplated in articles 22.1 of the
LSSI and 13 of the RGPD or reiterate the behaviors revealed in the
claim and that have been the cause of the opening of this procedure
sanctioning, as well as not immediately informing this AEPD of the measures
adopted could give rise to the exercise of possible actions before the person in charge of the
treatment in order to effectively apply the appropriate measures to
guarantee and not compromise the confidentiality of personal data and the
right to personal privacy.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE SECREYO SERVICIOS DE TELESCRETARIADO, S.L., with
NIF B14851612:

A) For an infringement of article 21.1 of the LSSI, typified in Article 38.4.d) of the
LSSI, a sanction of warning.

B) Due to an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the
RGPD, a penalty of warning in accordance with article 58.2.b) of the
GDPR.

SECOND: REQUEST SECREYO SERVICIOS DE TELESCRETARIADO, S.L.,
with NIF B14851612, so that within a month from the notification of this
resolution, proves: the adoption of the necessary and pertinent measures of
in accordance with both the LSSI and the regulations on the protection of
personal data, RGPD, in order to prevent recurrence in the future
incidents such as those that have given rise to the claim, correcting the effects of
violations, adapting to the requirements set forth in articles 21.1 of
the LSSI and 13 of the RGPD.

THIRD
 
TELESCRETARIADO, S.L., with NIF B14851612.

 : NOTIFY this resolution to SECREYO SERVICIOS DE

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

