
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    06/23/2020
                                New podcast is dedicated to "fake news" - LfDI participates in the week of media competence Incorrect reports are booming - be it in integration debates or now during the corona pandemic," says the state data protection officer Professor Dieter Kugelmann. "False reports create a mood, it's about influencing the public discussion. Fake news is sometimes spread extremely quickly via digital channels and at the same time many people are reached. Fake news is not just a data protection issue. However, personal data can be False reports play a role and lead to personal defamation, for example. Social networks and messenger services, some of which are organized by global corporations, play a key role in the spread of fake news We are going to develop a strong awareness of the consequences and excesses of digitization. As LfDI, we are happy to make a contribution to this."In the new, approximately 30-minute podcast episode between a data protection expert and a media educator, questions such as "How can you Recognize fake news?" and "In which media are they distributed?" treated. Among other things, it is about the danger of such messages, the motives behind the distribution and legal issues. The podcast episode was released as part of Media Literacy Week (22-28 June 2020). This is an initiative of the Ministry of Education of Rhineland-Palatinate, the State Educational Institute and the LMK - Medienanstalt rlp. The LfDI is partner of the week of media competence. The LfDI started in February with a new podcast offer. 5 episodes have been released so far. The programs were dedicated to the following topics: "The state commissioner introduces himself", "Employee data protection in times of the corona virus", "Social media and data protection - a framework for action for public authorities" and "Spam, phishing and blackmailing e-mails". Other planned topics are "tracking on the Internet", "data protection in day-care centers and schools", "monitoring at work", "images and videos on the Internet" and "video surveillance". The podcast is aimed at citizens, administrations and companies and is intended to provide information on data protection and freedom of information issues.
                                return
                            



