Deliberation 2018-348 of November 8, 2018National Commission for Computing and FreedomsNature of the deliberation: Members and agentsLegal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Wednesday November 14, 2018NOR: CNIL1830693XDeliberation No. 2018-348 of November 8, 2018 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions The office of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data;
Having regard to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigations and prosecutions in this area or the execution of criminal penalties, and the free movement of such data;
Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3;
Having regard to law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 as amended relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 11 (2°, f), 19, 20 and 44;
Considering the decree n° 2005-1309 of October 20, 2005 modified taken for the application of the law of January 6, 1978, in particular its articles 57 to 60;
Having regard to deliberation no. 2004-071 of September 9, 2004 delegating powers to the office of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties;
Having regard to deliberation no. 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 adopting the internal regulations of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties;
After having heard Mrs. Marie-France MAZARS, Deputy Vice-President, in her report, and Mrs. Eve JULLIEN, Government Commissioner, in her observations,
Decides: Article 1
The agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties designated below are authorized, by reason of their functions, to carry out the visits and verifications mentioned in article 44 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in the article L. 253-3 of the internal security code:
Ms. Maryline ABIVEN, Head of the Right of Indirect Access Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Fabienne AMIARD, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Audrey BACQUIE, assistant in the sanctions department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Leslie BASSE, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Franck BAUDOT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Ms Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Mr. Florent BAZONNET, legal assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Nacéra BEKHAT, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Ms Margalith BENECH-KOPELIANSKIS, legal expert in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Khadija BELGHITI-ALAOUI, assistant to the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Justine BERTAUD DU CHAZAUD, legal expert in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Thomas BIZET, jurist in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Maxime BLANCHOT, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms. Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools in the compliance tools department at the compliance department;
Mrs. Soumia BOUASSAM, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Erik BOUCHER-DE-CREVECOEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mrs. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, lawyer in the complaints department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sophie BORY, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms Véronique BREMOND, lawyer in the complaints department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms. Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies in the innovation division, studies and prospective in the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Stephany CHEMMACHERY, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department;
Mr. Thomas CHRISTINE, jurist in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Virginie CLAUDE-LOONIS, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Olivier COUTOR, in charge of studies in the department of relations with the public and research;
Mrs. Valentyne CROSNIER, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, deputy director of compliance;
Mr. Philippe DECLAIRIEUX, lawyer in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Mr. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the complaints department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Geoffrey DELCROIX, in charge of prospective studies in the innovation division, studies and prospective in the technology and innovation department;
Mrs Isabelle DELERUE, assistant to the directorate of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Eric DELISLE, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Head of the Complaints Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Alexandra DORE, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Julien DROCHON, auditor of information systems referent to the service of the controls at the direction of the protection of the rights and the sanctions;
Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Marie FERTE, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Mrs Anne FONTANILLE, legal expert in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mrs. Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with the secretary general;
Mr. Emile GABRIE, adviser to the President and the Secretary General;
Mrs. Marion de GASQUET, lawyer in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the service of technological expertise in the direction of technologies and innovation;
Mr. Rodolphe GENISSEL, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, lawyer in the economic affairs department of the compliance department;
Mr Mathieu GINESTET, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mrs. Lorena GONZALEZ, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Mr. Jérôme GORIN, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Matthieu GRALL, head of the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Michel GUEDRÉ, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, head of the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Basile GULEY, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department;
Ms. Fatima HAMDI, head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Ms. Estelle HARY, designer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Paul HEBERT, Deputy Director of Compliance;
Mr. Armand HESLOT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Ms. Sonia HUDELA, assistant to the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Nathalie JACQUES, assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Amandine JAMBERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, jurist in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, legal assistant in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Maya JOUBIN, lawyer in the complaints department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Pauline KIENLEN, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Karin KIEFER, Deputy Director for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Névine LAHLOU, lawyer in the complaints department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Alice de LA MURE, lawyer in the service of data protection officers in the compliance department;
Mr. Gwendal LE GRAND, director of technologies and innovation;
Mr. Pierre LEPHAY, jurist in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Jean LESSI, Secretary General;
Ms Maud LETAY, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Noémie LICHON, Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, lawyer in the complaints department at the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;
Mr. Tony MARTIN, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Joanna MASSON, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Mr. Jérôme de MERCEY, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Mathias MOULIN, director of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Sophie NERBONNE, compliance director;
Mr. Bao-Khanh NGUYEN TRUNG, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Ingrid NKOUENJIN, Head of the Compliance Tools Department at the Compliance Department;
Mrs. Rabia OUADDAH, lawyer in the complaints department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the complaints department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Frédéric PATTE-BRASSEUR, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Astrid PEYRARD, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;
Mrs Bertrande PIAT-TAMBAREAU, assistant to the directorate of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Délia RAHAL-LOFSKOG, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms Florence RAYNAL, Head of the European and International Affairs Department;
Ms Albane RICHET, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms Ismini RIGOPOULOU, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Mr. Valentin ROGER, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Guilda ROSTAMA, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Ms Mathilde ROUSSEL, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms. Isabelle SANSOT, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Ms. Katty SAINT-GELAIS, in charge of developing tools - responsible for BCRs in the compliance tools department of the compliance department;
Mrs. Stéphanie SAULNIER, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mrs Clémence SCOTTEZ, head of the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Ms. Emilie SERUGA-CAU, head of the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the compliance department;
Mr. Félicien VALLET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, head of information systems security at the General Secretariat;
Ms Anne VIDAL, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Ms Albine VINCENT, Head of the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department;
Mr. Christophe VIVENT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Ms Clémentine VOISARD, project manager with the public relations department;
Ms Sophie VULLIET-TAVERNIER, Director of Public Relations and Research.Article 2
Deliberations n° 2018-290 of July 12, 2018 and n° 2018-320 of September 20, 2018 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions are repealed. Article 3
The authorizations mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. Article 4
This decision will take effect from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the French Republic.
The president,
I. Falque-Pierrotin