
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08.02.2021
                                New content on the website of the initiative "Well treated with security" - Further support for the implementation of data protection in medical and psychotherapy practices The exemplary cooperation of the state data protection officer with the Rhineland-Palatinate Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians, the State Chamber of Psychotherapists and beyond the state borders of Rhineland-Palatinate The State Medical Association is expanding its support services in 2021. Additional content has been added to the initiative's website and existing articles have been updated. In particular, the newly established topic block on the digitization of the healthcare system should help to make the practice owners aware of the data protection law references of the digitization process and, in addition to general information options, also present the resulting practical effects. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann explains: “The many years of cooperation between the state data protection supervisory authority, individual health professional chambers and the Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians is without exaggeration a Rhineland-Palatinate success story. With the initiative, we have succeeded in adapting the implementation of data protection in the area of resident doctors and psychotherapists to the practical requirements. This has significantly increased the acceptance of data protection among practice owners in the sensitive health sector.” Kugelmann continues. “I am very grateful for the new content now published on the initiative's website. Because especially in the current digital transformation process, an active, interdisciplinary cooperation of all higher-level actors in favor of the practices responsible for compliance with data protection is more necessary than ever. it is very important to further expand this long-standing, very good and constructive cooperation with the state representative for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, the state chamber of psychotherapists and the state chamber of physicians. In particular, due to the advancing digitization process and the current IT security guideline according to § 75b SGB V, more and more questions arise for doctors and psychotherapists, for which the joint website offers immense help. which contains, among other things, articles on digital health applications, electronic patient files and video conferencing systems, information on data exchange with police authorities, public prosecutors, courts and the MDK as well as suspected child welfare hazards are provided. The website of the initiative can be reached here.
                                return
                            



