DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

9 August 2023  
 
TO: 

REPRIMAND 

 

 

 
 

  

OF: 
      
       
       
 
The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
 in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) 

  

 

of the UK General Data Protection Regulation (‘UK GDPR’) in respect of 
certain infringements of the UK GDPR.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to 
of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5(1)(f) which states “Personal data shall be processed in a 

 in respect 

manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures”  
 

•  Article 32(1)(b) which states “Taking into account the state of the 

art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and 
purposes of processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and 
severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the 
controller and the processor shall implement appropriate technical 
and organisational measures to ensure a level of security 
appropriate to the risk, including inter alia as appropriate: (b) the 
ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability 
and resilience of processing systems and services” 

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
Case Summary 
 

 

1 

It is our understanding that on 8 December 2020, 
source for cybersecurity news and independent research, contacted 

, an online 

 and advised it had gained access to 

 The email was automatically sent to a junk folder. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 was 

 employee 

 contacted 

 shut down the 

 on 5 January 2021.  

 further stated it was likely this triggered 

 to advise it was able to access 
 on 4 January 2021 to inform them of 

subsequently contacted 
data. 
this issue and 
 
During the course of an internal investigation, 
 determined the 
was accessed for the first time in three years, two weeks prior to the 
system penetration by 
 believed the 
configured in error when the account was accessed by a 
on 18 November 2020. 
the weakness in the system and allowed the data to be accessed. 
acknowledged there was a risk the data had been accessed by a third 
party for malicious purposes. It also stated it could not be ruled out 
because the data logs were only held for a limited time, and it was no 
longer possible to access this information.  
 
 stored approximately 12,000 records 
Within the affected 
relating to 3,000 workers. The personal data consisted of a variety of 
different data sets, including names, addresses, dates of birth, passports, 
ID documents and National Insurance numbers. 
 
Our consideration of this case  
 
 has complied with the requirements 
We have investigated whether 
of data protection legislation. Our investigation has identified the following 
points in relation to the security requirements of the UK GDPR:  
 
• 
and the data was consequently exposed to open access without any 
requirement to authenticate. 
configured the 
configuration was altered in error when the account was accessed by an 
employee on 18 November 2020. Public access to the 
removed until 5 January 2021.  
• There are no additional costs to set a 
private. It is a configuration setting where the customer chooses how it is 
set. 

 storage container to be publicly accessible 

 to be publicly accessible, but believed the 

 was unable to categorically state who 

 misconfigured its 

 to public or 

 was not 

 

 

2 

 directly 

   

 and the National Cyber Security 

 in light of this incident. In particular:  

 acknowledged the volume and content of the data, which 

• 
included basic identifiers, ID documents and financial details, would lead 
to a high risk if the data had been accessed by a malicious actor.  
• Guidance was available from 
Centre (‘NCSC’) at the time of the incident which highlighted the 
importance of cloud configuration, logging, identity management and 
access controls. 
 
Mitigating factors  
 
During the course of our investigation, we have noted that 
notified data subjects of the security incident and published an 
information notice on its website. 
 
Remedial steps taken by 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by 
 
• 
 on 5 January 
2021 and deleted all data held in the storage container on 7 January 
2021, having moved the data to hard storage.  
 undertook a full review of all internal data processing processes, 
• 
policies and procedures and provided training to staff to minimise the risk 
of a recurrence. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to 
5(1)(f) and Article 32(1)(b) of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Recommendations  
 
In line with Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1)(b) of the UK GDPR, The 
Commissioner routinely recommends the following steps: 
 

 took action to remove open access to the 

 in relation to the infringements of Article 

1.  Periodically audit the configuration of cloud services as part of a 

wider security assessment. The NCSC’s guidance on risk 
management includes practical advice on security governance and 
how to align the security activities to the objectives of the 

 

3 

organisation. The NCSC has also published specific cloud security 
guidance which outlines principles surrounding identification, 
authentication and operational security. 
 

2.  Ensure appropriate identity and access controls are in place to allow 

secure access to systems processing (including the storage of) 
personal data. Access rights should be reviewed regularly and 
revoked when no longer required. The NCSC has published guidance 
on identity and access management which suggests the 
development of appropriate policies and processes and 
authentication methods proportionate to the risk. 

 

3.  Appropriate event logging and security monitoring should be 

maintained to trace access to personal data and quickly identify if a 
security incident occurs. This can be supported by the NCSC’s 
guidance on logging and monitoring in its ’10 Steps to Cyber 
Security’.  

 
Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation.  
We now consider the matter closed. 
Yours sincerely,  
 

 

Lead Technical Investigations Officer 
Information Commissioner’s Office 

 

Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we exchange with 
third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal with, including the General Data 
Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 
2000. You can read about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk).  

The ICO publishes the outcomes of its investigations. Examples of published data sets 
can be found at this link (https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/our-information/complaints-
and-concerns-data-sets/).  

Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is confidential. You 
should also say why so that we can take that into consideration. However, please note 
that we will only withhold information where there is good reason to do so. 

For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy notice at 
www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice 
 

 

4 

