 

 

 
 

1 (2) 

 

 

The Nordic Data Protection Authorities Decided on Common 
Goals and Forms of Cooperation 

Nordic Data Protection Meeting 2022 

The Nordic data protection authorities from Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Finland, Iceland, Norway, 
Sweden and Åland met in Helsinki on 13–14 October.  

The data protection authorities (DPAs) discussed current data protection topics and shared best 
practices. Nordic cooperation between data protection authorities is based on a long tradition. 
Nordic meetings have been organized since 1988. 

The Nordic DPAs agreed on the following cooperation and goals.  

1)  The Nordic data protection authorities will continue their close cooperation based on the 

Nordic values. The DPAs share a common goal: Making the digital environment safer and 
more responsible. 

2)  The DPAs who are members of the EEA agreed to further contribute to the European Data 
Protection Board’s work on harmonized application of the GDPR. The DPAs also agreed to 
strengthen the cooperation and information sharing on matters related to freedom of 
information. This will mainly be done through the already established network of 
International Coordinators.  

3)  Protection of children’s data is a priority for the Nordic DPAs. The DPAs decided to form an 

informal working group related to children and online gaming to share information, starting 
with awareness-raising and thereafter identifying possibilities for joint guidance and 
enforcement actions.  
 

4)  The DPAs discussed the Proposal for the Regulation on the European Health Data Space 

and decided on further cooperation because of the unique large-scale national health 
registers in Nordic countries and complex national legislation. 

 

5)  The DPAs recognized the overlap between the GDPR and EU’s digital package and 

underline the importance of avoiding unwanted fragmentation of supervision and the need 
to ensure the consistent enforcement of the said legislations. The DPAs also emphasized 
the need for sufficient resources if the authorities are given new tasks. 
 

 

 

 
 

2 (2) 

 

6)  The DPAs decided to create a Digital Nordic Working Group for information exchange and 

cooperation of the IT-experts. 
 

7)  The Nordic DPAs have developed effective tools in case handling. The DPAs agreed to 

share these tools, and this will be organized by in-house taskforces dedicated to this 
matter. 
 

The Nordic Data Protection Authorities 

 

Anu Talus 
Data Protection Ombudsman, Finland 

Cristina Angela Gulisano 
Director General, Denmark  

Tóri Højgaard 
Director General, the Faroe Islands 

Helga Þórisdóttir 
Commissioner, Iceland 

Line Coll 
Director General, Norway 

Lena Lindgren Schelin 
Director General, Sweden 

Lena Nordman 
Head of Datainspektionen, Åland 

 

 

 
 

 

 

