Nordic data protection authorities to continue close cooperation aimed at promoting responsibility in the digital environment 


   


Publication date 
18.10.2022
 9.30
| Published in English on 27.10.2022 at 13.42


Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 The data protection authorities of the Nordic countries gathered for their annual meeting in Helsinki on 13–14 October. In the statement issued in connection with the meeting, the data protection authorities stress the importance of cooperation based on Nordic values and agree on joint concrete measures. In their statement, the data protection authorities of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, Finland, Åland and the Faroe Islands agree on future cooperation. The Nordic data protection authorities will enhance their practical cooperation by sharing information and best practices, for example in questions related to children's online gaming, publicity legislation, the processing of cases and the European health data space. - The Nordic data protection authorities share the common goal of promoting the safety and responsibility of the digital environment. Nordic cooperation is a significant resource grounded in shared values, says Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus. The Nordic data protection authorities also discussed the relationship between the General Data Protection Regulation and the EU Digital Services Package. In their statement, the authorities emphasise that the enforcement of data protection regulations should not be fragmented and call for a corresponding increase in resources if the duties of the data protection authorities will be expanded. At the meeting, the data protection authorities agreed on the establishment of a working group focusing on children's online gaming. Children's data protection is one of the priorities of the Nordic data protection authorities. In the first phase, the group's work will focus on sharing information and increasing awareness of the subject. This can be followed by the identification of common counselling and supervision needs at a later date. Increasing cooperation in questions involving the European health data space will answer shared Nordic challenges. The Nordic countries have in common unique, extensive national health registers and complex national health data legislation. The Nordic data protection authorities have a long history of cooperation, as meetings between them have been held since 1988. The Helsinki Statement (PDF) Further information:  Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus, anu.talus(at)om.fi, tel. +358 29 566 6766 












cooperation


