

Bonn/Berlin, 03/14/2019


Press release 11/2019


  European Data Protection Board calls for ambitious E-Privacy Regulation
The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) has called on the European legislator to adopt the E-Privacy Regulation, which has been discussed for a long time, as soon as possible. In addition to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), this must guarantee a high level of protection for data in the area of electronic communication.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Ulrich Kelber, as one of the co-initiators of the statement, made it clear that the E-Privacy Regulation was originally intended to come into force at the same time as the GDPR came into force last May. It's one thing not being able to meet this admittedly ambitious deadline. However, that does not excuse the fact that no real progress has been made in terms of content for more than a year, but instead an attempt is being made to lower the desired level of data protection. We need strong regulation, especially in the highly sensitive area of electronic communication. Therefore, the E-Privacy Regulation must be designed in such a way that the level of protection of both the current E-Privacy Directive and the GDPR is at least maintained and - where necessary - expanded. In addition, it must be made clear that the data protection supervisory authorities also have all the powers provided for in the GDPR when supervising the processing of personal data under the E-Privacy Regulation.
Alongside the GDPR, the E-Privacy Regulation is the second major legislative project to reform European data protection law. It is intended to replace the E-Privacy Directive that is still in force and regulate data protection in electronic communication. In this respect, it represents an area-specific supplement and specification of the data protection requirements in the GDPR.
A first draft of the regulation was presented by the European Commission in January 2017. The European Parliament took a position on the draft law in October 2017. Only the European Council has not yet been able to agree on a common line after a two-year debate.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











