Enhancing the depth
and breadth of
data protection

ENHANCING THE DEPTH

AND BREADTH OF
DATA PROTECTION

An Executive Summary of this report, which provides an overview of

key EDPB activities in 2021, is also available.

Further details about the EDPB can be found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

22

EDPB Annual Report 2021TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1
2
3

3.1. 

3.2. 

GLOSSARY 

FOREWORD 

2021 - HIGHLIGHTS 

STRATEGY 2021-2023 AND WORK 
PROGRAMME 2021-2022 

EDPB OPINIONS ON DRAFT UK ADEQUACY 
DECISIONS 

3.2.1. 

3.2.2. 

3.2.3. 

Recommendations 01/2021 on the 
adequacy referential under the Law 
Enforcement Directive 

Opinion 14/2021 regarding the 
European Commission Draft 
Implementing Decision pursuant 
to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the 
adequate protection of personal data 
in the United Kingdom 

Opinion 15/2021 regarding the 
European Commission Draft 
Implementing Decision pursuant 
to Directive (EU) 2016/680 on the 
adequate protection of personal data 
in the United Kingdom 

3.3. 

FURTHER GUIDANCE AND OPINIONS 
FOLLOWING THE CASE C-311/18 SCHREMS II 
RULING BY THE CJEU 

3.3.1. 

Recommendations 01/2020 on 
measures that supplement transfer 
tools to ensure compliance with the 
EU level of protection of personal 
data – Version 2.0 

7

10

13

13

13

14

15

16

16

16

3.3.2. 

EDPS-EDPB Joint Opinion 02/2021 
on standard contractual clauses for 
the transfer of personal data to third 
countries 

EDPB-EDPS JOINT OPINION 05/2021 ON 
THE PROPOSAL FOR A REGULATION OF 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE 
COUNCIL LAYING DOWN HARMONISED RULES 
ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (ARTIFICIAL 
INTELLIGENCE ACT) 

  16

18

BINDING DECISION 01/2021 ON THE DISPUTE 
ARISEN ON THE DRAFT DECISION OF THE 
IRISH SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY REGARDING 
WHATSAPP IRELAND UNDER ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR  19

URGENT BINDING DECISION 01/2021 ON THE 
REQUEST UNDER ART. 66(2) GDPR FROM 
THE HAMBURG (GERMAN) SUPERVISORY 
AUTHORITY FOR ORDERING THE ADOPTION 
OF FINAL MEASURES REGARDING FACEBOOK 
IRELAND LIMITED  

2021 - THE EDPB SECRETARIAT 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT'S CONTRIBUTION TO 
THE NATIONAL SAs’ COOPERATION   

IT COMMUNICATIONS TOOL (INTERNAL 
MARKET INFORMATION) AND THE NEW EDPB 
WEBSITE  

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT'S ACTIVITIES 
RELATING TO ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS  

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT'S ACTIVITIES 
RELATING TO DATA PROTECTION OFFICER 
ACTIVITIES  

20

22

22

23

23

24

25

3.4. 

3.5. 

3.6. 

4

4.1. 

4.2. 

4.3. 

4.4. 

4.5. 

33

EDPB Annual Report 20215

5.1. 

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD 
- ACTIVITIES IN 2021 

26

GENERAL GUIDANCE (GUIDELINES AND 
RECOMMENDATIONS) 

5.1.1. 

5.1.2. 

5.1.3. 

5.1.4. 

5.1.5. 

5.1.6. 

5.1.7. 

5.1.8. 

Guidelines 01/2021 on examples 
regarding personal data breach 
notification 

Recommendations 01/2021 on the 
adequacy referential under the Law 
Enforcement Directive 

Guidance Addendum on certification 
criteria assessment (Addendum to 
Guidelines 1/2018 on certification 
and identifying certification criteria 
in accordance with Arts. 42 and 43 GDPR)   28

Guidelines 02/2021 on virtual voice 
assistants 

Guidelines 03/2021 on the 
application of Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR 

Recommendations 02/2021 on the 
legal basis for the storage of credit 
card data for the sole purpose of 
facilitating further online transactions  

Guidelines 04/2021 on codes of 
conduct as tools for transfers 

Guidelines 05/2021 on the Interplay 
between the application of Art. 3 
and the provisions on international 
transfers as per Chapter V of the GDPR 

26

27

27

28

29

29

29

30

31

33

33

5.1.9. 

Guidelines adopted after public 
consultation 

5.2. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS  

5.2.1. 

Opinions on draft decisions regarding 
Binding Corporate Rules  

5.2.2. 

5.2.3. 

5.2.4. 

5.2.5. 

5.2.6. 

5.2.7. 

Opinions on draft requirements for 
accreditation of a certification body  

Opinions on SAs’ approval of 
accreditation requirements for code 
of conduct monitoring body  

Opinion on SAs’ draft Standard 
Contractual Clauses  

Opinions on SAs’ approval of codes of 
conduct  

Opinion on SAs’ authorisation of 
administrative arrangements  

Opinion on the legal basis for an SA to 
order ex officio data erasure   

5.3. 

BINDING DECISIONS  

5.3.1. 

5.3.2. 

Binding Decision 01/2021 on the 
dispute arisen on the draft decision 
of the Irish Supervisory Authority 
regarding WhatsApp Ireland under 
Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR  

Urgent Binding Decision 01/2021 
on the request under Art. 66(2) 
GDPR from the Hamburg (German) 
Supervisory Authority for ordering 
the adoption of final measures 
regarding Facebook Ireland Limited  

5.4. 

5.5. 

REGISTER FOR DECISIONS TAKEN BY 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES AND COURTS 
ON ISSUES HANDLED IN THE CONSISTENCY 
MECHANISM 

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION AND 
DOCUMENTS ADDRESSED TO THE EUIS OR 
NATIONAL AUTHORITIES 

35

36

36

37

37

37

38

38

38

38

39

44

EDPB Annual Report 20215.5.1. 

5.5.2. 

5.5.3. 

5.5.4. 

5.5.5. 

5.5.6. 

5.5.7. 

Opinion 14/2021 regarding the 
European Commission Draft 
Implementing Decision pursuant 
to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the 
adequate protection of personal data 
in the United Kingdom  

Opinion 15/2021 regarding the 
European Commission Draft 
Implementing Decision pursuant 
to Directive (EU) 2016/680 on the 
adequate protection of personal data 
in the United Kingdom  

Opinion 20/2021 on Tobacco 
Traceability System  

Opinion 32/2021 regarding the 
European Commission draft 
implementing decision pursuant 
to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the 
adequate protection of personal data 
in the Republic of Korea 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 01/2021 
on standard contractual clauses 
between controllers and processors 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 02/2021 
on standard contractual clauses for 
the transfer of personal data to third 
countries 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 03/2021 
on the Proposal for a regulation of 
the European Parliament and of the 
Council on European data governance 
(Data Governance Act) 

39

39

39

40

41

41

42

55

5.5.8. 

5.5.9. 

5.5.10. 

5.5.11. 

5.5.12. 

5.5.13. 

5.5.14. 

5.5.15. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 04/2021 
on the Proposal for a Regulation 
of the European Parliament and of 
the Council on a framework for the 
issuance, verification and acceptance 
of interoperable certificates on 
vaccination, testing and recovery to 
facilitate free movement during the 
COVID 19 pandemic (Digital Green 
Certificate) 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 05/2021 
on the proposal for a Regulation of 
the European Parliament and of the 
Council laying down harmonised 
rules on artificial intelligence 
(Artificial Intelligence Act) 

Statement 02/2021 on new draft 
provisions of the Second Additional 
Protocol to the Council of Europe 
Convention on Cybercrime (Budapest 
Convention) 

Statement 03/2021 on ePrivacy 
Regulation 

Statement 04/2021 on international 
agreements including transfers 

EDPB contribution to the 6th round 
of consultations on the draft Second 
Additional Protocol to the Council 
of Europe Budapest Convention on 
Cybercrime 

Statement 05/2021 on the Data 
Governance Act in light of the 
legislative developments 

EDPB contribution to the 6th round 
of consultations on the draft Second 
Additional Protocol to the Council 
of Europe Budapest Convention on 
Cybercrime 

42

43

43

44

44

44

45

45

EDPB Annual Report 20216.1.3. 

One-Stop-Shop mechanism and     
decisions 

6.1.4. 

Mutual assistance 

6.1.5. 

 Joint operations 

6.2. 

NATIONAL CASES 

6.2.1. 

Some relevant national cases with 
exercise of corrective powers  

6.3. 

SA BUDGET AND STAFF 

7
8

8.1. 

8.2. 

8.3. 

8.4. 

8.5. 

8.6. 

COORDINATED SUPERVISION 
COMMITTEE OF THE LARGE EU 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND OF EU 
BODIES, OFFICES AND AGENCIES 

ANNEXES 

GENERAL GUIDANCE ADOPTED IN 2021 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS AND DECISIONS 
ADOPTED IN 2021 

JOINT OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 2021 

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

OTHER DOCUMENTS 

LIST OF EXPERT SUBGROUPS WITH SCOPE OF 
MANDATES 

5.6. 

OTHER GUIDANCE AND INFORMATION NOTES 

5.6.1. 

Pre-GDPR BCRs overview list 

5.6.2. 

5.6.3. 

Statement on the withdrawal of the 
United Kingdom from the European 
Union - update 13/01/2021 

Information note on data transfers 
under the GDPR to the United 
Kingdom after the transition period - 
update 13/01/2021 

5.7. 

5.8. 

PLENARY MEETINGS AND SUBGROUPS 

STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 

5.8.1. 

Stakeholder events 

5.8.2. 

Public consultation on draft guidance 

5.8.3. 

Survey on practical application of 
adopted guidance 

5.9. 

EXTERNAL REPRESENTATION OF THE BOARD  

5.9.1. 

Participation of Chair and Deputy 
Chairs in conferences and speaking 
engagements 

45

45

46

46

46

47

47

47

48

49

49

6

6.1. 

5.9.2. 

Participation of EDPB Staff in 
conferences and speaking engagements  49

SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY - 
ACTIVITIES IN 2021 

CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION 

6.1.1. 

Preliminary procedure to identify 
the Lead and Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities 

6.1.2. 

Database regarding cases with a 
cross-border component 

50

50

50

51

51

66

66

66

66

82

84

87

87

88

90

90

90

91

66

EDPB Annual Report 20211

GLOSSARY

Adequacy decision

An implementing act adopted by the European Commission that decides that a non-EU 
country ensures an adequate level of protection of personal data.

Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) 

Data protection policies adhered to by controller or processors established in the EU 
for transfers of personal data to controllers or processors outside the EU within a group 
of undertakings or enterprises or groups of enterprises engaged in a joint economic 
activity.

Charter of Fundamental Rights 
of the EU  

A legally binding Charter that sets out the civil, political, economic, social and cultural 
rights of EU citizens and residents (including the right to the protection of personal data 
in its Art. 8).

Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities (CSAs)

A  Supervisory  Authority  concerned  by  the  processing  of  personal  data  because:  (a) 
the controller or processor is established on the territory of its Member State; (b) data 
subjects residing in the Member State are substantially affected by the processing; or (c) 
a complaint has been lodged with that Supervisory Authority.

Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU) 

The highest court in the EU judiciary system, which ensures uniform interpretation and 
application of EU law in EU Member States. It ensures those States and EU institutions 
abide by EU law.

Either (a) processing of personal data that takes place in the context of the activities 
of establishments in more than one Member State of a controller or processor in the 
Union where the controller or processor is established in more than one Member State; 
or (b) processing of personal data that takes place in the context of the activities of a 
single establishment of a controller or processor in the Union, but which substantially 
affects or is likely to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State.

The natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body that, alone or jointly 
with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data; 
where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by EU or Member 
State law, the controller or the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for 
by Union or Member State law.

A principle that means that a data controller should limit the collection of personal data 
to what is directly adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary to accomplish a 
specified purpose of the processing.

Cross-border processing

Data controller

Data minimisation

7

EDPB Annual Report 2021Data processor

Data Protection Impact 
Assessment (DPIA)

A  natural  or  legal  person,  public  authority,  agency  or  other  body  which  processes 
personal data on behalf of the controller.

A  privacy-related  impact  assessment aiming  to  evaluate  the  processing  of  personal 
data, including notably its necessity and proportionality, an assessment of the risks for 
the rights and freedom of individuals, and the measures envisaged to address the risks.

Data Protection Officer (DPO)

An expert on data protection law and practices, who operates independently within an 
organisation to ensure the internal application of data protection.

Data subject

The person whose personal data is processed.

European Commission

An  EU  institution  that  shapes  the  EU's  overall  strategy,  proposes  new  EU  laws  and 
policies, monitors their implementation and manages the EU budget.

European Economic Area (EEA) 
Member States

EU Member States and Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. 

European Union (EU)

An economic and political union between 27 European countries.

General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR)

An EU Regulation that sets out rules on the rights of data subjects, the duties of data 
controllers and processors processing personal data, international data transfers and 
the powers of Supervisory Authorities.

Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA)

Main establishment 

The  Supervisory  Authority  where  the  “main  establishment”  of  a  data  controller  or 
processor is based, which has the primary responsibility for dealing with a cross-border 
data processing activity and for coordinating any cross-border investigation.

Either (a) as regards a controller with establishments in more than one Member State, 
the place of its central administration in the Union, unless the decisions on the purposes 
and means of the processing of personal data are taken in another establishment of 
the controller in the Union and the latter establishment has the power to have such 
decisions implemented, in which case the establishment having taken such decisions 
is to be considered to be the main establishment; or (b) as regards a processor with 
establishments in more than one Member State, the place of its central administration 
in  the  Union,  or,  if  the  processor  has  no  central  administration  in  the  Union,  the 
establishment of the processor in the Union where the main processing activities in the 
context of the activities of an establishment of the processor take place to the extent 
that the processor is subject to specific obligations under the GDPR.

8

EDPB Annual Report 2021One-Stop-Shop mechanism

Personal data

Processing

A mechanism whereby the Supervisory Authority with the “main establishment” of a 
controller or processor in the EU serves as the Lead Supervisory Authority to ensure 
cooperation between Supervisory Authorities in the case of cross-border processing.

Any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); 
an  identifiable  natural  person  is  one  who  can  be  identified,  directly  or  indirectly,  in 
particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location 
data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, 
genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person.

Any operations or set of operations which is performed on personal data or sets of 
personal  data,  whether  or  not  by  automated  means,  such  as  collection,  recording, 
organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, 
disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or 
combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.

Standard Contractual Clauses 

(SCCs)

A set of contractual clauses that provide adequate safeguards for data transfers from 
the EU or the EEA to third countries or govern the relationship between controller and 
processor.

Supervisory Authority (SA)

An  independent  public  supervisory  body  that  monitors  the  application  of  the  GDPR 
and other national laws relating to data protection, in order to protect the rights and 
freedoms of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data. Also known 
as a Data Protection Authority (DPA).

Third country

A country outside the EU or EEA. 

9

EDPB Annual Report 20212

FOREWORD

2021 was the fourth year of existence and the first year of the multiannual EDPB Strategy 2021-
2023.  It  was  a  very  productive  year,  in  which  we  completed  many  key  actions  to  reach  the 
objectives set out in our Strategy.

Though we continued to work mostly remotely due to the continuing impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we made significant progress on a number of important files. To make this possible, 
we held over 380 EDPB meetings. Here, I outline some highlights from our work over the past 
year.

Firstly, the EDPB continued to pay a great deal of attention to international transfers of personal 
data.  In  2021,  we  adopted  the  final  version  of  our  Recommendations  on  supplementary 
measures  following  the  Schrems  II  ruling  by  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  EU,  taking  on  board 
the input received from stakeholders during public consultation. These recommendations lay 
out a clear roadmap of steps data exporters can follow to identify and implement appropriate 
supplementary measures to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection for the personal 
data they transfer to third countries.

The EDPB also adopted Opinions on the UK draft adequacy decisions. While adequacy findings 
are available to those countries that meet the relevant criteria, EU data protection legislation 
offers other transfer mechanisms. In line with this, we adopted Guidelines on codes of conduct 
as tools for transfers. In addition, we issued a Joint Opinion together with the EDPS on a new 
set of Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) issued by the European Commission for the transfer 
of personal data to controllers and processors established outside the EEA. We worked closely 
together with the European Commission to ensure full consistency between the SCCs and our 
Recommendations on supplementary measures.

10

EDPB Annual Report 2021A second area in which we carried out important work in 2021 was digital policy. In the framework 
of the EU’s Digital Strategy, the European Commission put forward several proposals on which 
the  EDPB,  together  with  the  European  Data  Protection  Supervisor  (EDPS),  issued  legislative 
advice. The EDPB and EDPS adopted a Joint Opinion on the proposal for a Data Governance Act 
(DGA) and a statement on the Digital Service Package and Data Strategy. We also adopted an 
important Joint Opinion with the EDPS on the draft Artificial Intelligence Act. It is crucial that the 
future DGA and data processing acts under the Artificial Intelligence Act are fully in line with EU 
personal data protection legislation.

Law  enforcement  was  a  third  priority  area  that  underscored  our  work  in  2021.  Adequacy 
decisions may also be adopted in the framework of the Law Enforcement Directive (LED). Last 
year, we adopted recommendations on the LED adequacy referential. By detailing the core data 
protection principles that have to be present in the third country legal framework to ensure 
essential equivalence with the EU framework, our guidance aims to standardise the adequacy 
procedure under the LED. We also carried out an evaluation of the LED itself.

Throughout 2021, we issued several guidance documents to clarify the terms of European data 
protection law for companies and organisations. For example, we published examples of data 
breach notifications and guidance on virtual voice assistants. We also adopted the final version 
of our Guidelines on the concepts of controller and processor and Guidelines on the targeting 
of social media users, after incorporating stakeholders’ feedback. By interacting and consulting 
with stakeholders, we aim to make our guidance practical and concrete, answering the needs 
identified by our stakeholders.

Naturally, a topic that is high on our priority list is the enforcement of the GDPR. So far, the 
national Supervisory Authorities have worked or are working together on almost 2,000 cross-
border cases. The dispute resolution mechanism under Art. 65 GDPR has been triggered twice 
(once in 2020 and once in 2021) and, in 2021, we also dealt with our first Art. 66 GDPR urgency 
procedure relating to national provisional measures imposed in Germany against WhatsApp 
data-sharing practices with Facebook.

In the coming year we will continue to develop guidance to help stakeholders understand and 
interpret the GDPR. We have set out ambitious goals for 2022, including work on guidance on 
topics as varied as legitimate interest as a legal basis and the use of facial recognition by law 
enforcement authorities.

1111

EDPB Annual Report 2021In 2022, we will also continue our work to optimise cooperation and enforcement. A dedicated 
meeting at the level of the heads of the Supervisory Authorities (SAs) will allow them to share 
experiences and discuss practical ways to ensure effective and efficient cooperation among SAs.

We  see  our  internal  discussions  against  the  backdrop  of  a  broader  international  debate  on 
cooperation and we aim to invest further resources in the global dimension of data protection. 
We  make  a  continuous  effort  to  meet  and  exchange  good  practices  with  our  colleagues 
worldwide, through fora such as the Global Privacy Assembly and the G7.

Undoubtedly, the depth and breadth of our work is all thanks to the efforts of everyone within 
the EDPB, accompanied by the valuable collaborative input and engagement of all stakeholders 
in our consultations and events.

Andrea Jelinek

Chair of the European Data Protection Board

1212

EDPB Annual Report 20213

2021 - HIGHLIGHTS

3.1. 

STRATEGY 2021-2023 AND WORK 
PROGRAMME 2021-2022

In early 2021, the EDPB adopted its two-year Work Programme 
for  2021-2022,  according  to  Art.  29  of  the  EDPB  Rules  of 
Procedure. The work programme follows the priorities set out 
in the Strategy for 2021-2023 and will put these into practice.

This  Strategy  includes  four  main  pillars,  as  well  as  a  set  of 
three key actions per pillar to help achieve these goals. The 
pillars and key actions are illustrated below.

The EDPB Strategy and Work Programme will help guide the 
EDPB’s work in 2021 and the years to come. The tools included 
in the Work Programme will help create a more consistent 
understanding of the key concepts and processes in the GDPR 

and the cooperation and consistency mechanism in particular. 
This will allow the EDPB to reinforce its leadership in ensuring 
consistency across the EEA and further drive EEA SAs to work 
in one direction and to speak in one voice.

3.2. 

EDPB OPINIONS ON DRAFT UK 
ADEQUACY DECISIONS

The EDPB issued two opinions on the European Commission 
draft  Implementing  Decisions  on  the  adequate  protection 
of personal data in the UK. Opinion 14/2021 is based on the 
GDPR and assesses both general data protection aspects and 
government access to personal data transferred from the EEA 
for  the  purposes  of  law  enforcement  and  national  security 
included in the draft adequacy decision. Opinion 15/2021 is 

13

EDPB Annual Report 2021PILLAR 1

Advancing harmonisation  
and facilitating compliance

Key notions of Data Protection law: 

  Guidelines on data subject rights
  Guidelines on legitimate interest

Ensuring consistency between 
data protection authorities

Advise the EU legislator on 
important data protection issues

Awareness-raising common tools 
on GDPR for SMEs

PILLAR 3

A fundamental rights approach 
to new technologies 

New technologies:

Guidelines on the use of 
facial recognition technology 
 in the area of law enforcement
  Guidelines on Blockchain
Guidelines on anonymisation 
and pseudonymisation
  EPrivacy Regulation

PILLAR 2

Supporting effective enforcement  

Consistent application of GDPR cooperation 
mechanisms:

  Guidance on One-Stop-Shop procedure,
Mutual assistance and EDPB decisions relating 
to dispute resolution
  Guidelines on administrative fines
Implement a Coordinated Enforcement Frame-
work and a Support Pool of Experts to promote 
solidarity between authorities and sharing 
of experts

PILLAR 4

The global dimension 

Promote high standards for international 
data transfers:

Adequacy decisions (both under GDPR and LED) 
Codes of Conduct and certification as tools 
for international transfers

based on the Law Enforcement Directive (LED) and analyses 
the draft adequacy decision in the light of Recommendations 
01/2021  on  the  adequacy  referential  under  the  LED  (see 
Section 5.1.2 of this Report), as well as the relevant case law 
reflected  in  Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European 
Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures. This is the first 
draft  implementing  decision  on  a  third  country’s  adequacy 
under the LED ever presented by the European Commission 
and assessed by the EDPB.

3.2.1. 

Recommendations 01/2021 on the adequacy 
referential under the Law Enforcement Directive

The EDPB issued recommendations to provide guidance to the 
European Commission on the level of data protection in third 
countries and international organisations under the LED. The 
finding of an adequate level of data protection does not need 
to demonstrate a point-by-point mirroring of EU legislation, 
but rather that the core requirements of legislation in a third 
country are effective (i.e. enforced and followed in practice) in 
ensuring a level of protection in the third country essentially 
equivalent to that guaranteed in the EU.

1414

EDPB Annual Report 2021To  be  able  to  properly  advise  the  European  Commission 
pursuant to Art. 51(1)(g) LED on adequacy decisions, the EDPB 
should receive all relevant documentation, including relevant 
correspondence  and  the  findings  made  by  the  European 
Commission,  so  it  can  assess  the  European  Commission’s 
analysis. The EDPB should also be kept informed of periodic 
reviews of adequacy decisions  under Art. 36(5) LED and of 
any action by the European Commission to repeal, amend or 
suspend adequacy decisions.

As part of an assessment of the level of data protection offered 
by a third country or international organisation, consideration 
should be given to:
•  The consistency of general principles and safeguards with 

EU data protection law;

•  Principles applied to the processing of special categories 
of data, automated decision making and profiling, and the 
application of the principles of data protection by design 
and default;

•  Procedural  and  enforcement  mechanisms  in  the  third 

3.2.2. 

Opinion 14/2021 regarding the European 
Commission Draft Implementing 
Decision pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
2016/679 on the adequate protection of 
personal data in the United Kingdom

When  providing  an  assessment  of  the  draft  implementing 
decision  on  the  adequacy  of  personal  data  protection 
offered by the UK under the GDPR, the EDPB finds that many 
aspects of the UK’s data protection framework are essentially 
equivalent to those in the EU. The EDPB welcomes the UK’s 
continued adherence to the European Convention on Human 
Rights  and  Council  of  Europe  Convention  108,  and  current 
work on ratifying Convention 108+.

However, there are several potential challenges to seeing the 
UK’s data protection framework as essentially equivalent to 
that of the EU, including:
•  Future possible divergences between UK legal framework 
and EU data protection law, which require close monitoring 
by the European Commission;

country or international organisation;

•  The broad formulation of an “immigration exemption” to 

•  Whether 

in 

the  guarantees  set  out 

the  EDPB’s 
Recommendations 02/2020 have been taken into account 
in  the  third  country  or  international  organisation  when 
assessing the adequacy of a third country under the LED 
in the field of surveillance.

Adopted: 2 February 2021

the application of data subject rights;

•  The  risk  of  onward  transfer  from  the  UK  of  personal 
data received from the EEA to third countries that might 
undermine the level of protection of the personal data if 
the rules applicable in the UK to onward transfers do not 
ensure that an essentially equivalent level of protection 
will continue to be provided;

•  The  potential 

impact  of 

international  agreements 
facilitating  access  to  personal  data  in  the  UK  by  public 
authorities in third countries.

Due  to  the  potential  for  the  UK  to  diverge  from  EU  data 
protection law, the EDPB welcomes the inclusion of a sunset 
clause,  and  invites  the  Commission  to  monitor  closely  all 
relevant developments in the UK that may have an impact on 

1515

EDPB Annual Report 2021the essential equivalence of the level of protection of personal 
data and, where necessary, to take swiftly appropriate actions, 
such  as  suspending,  amending  or  repealing  the  adequacy 
decision.

3.3. 

FURTHER GUIDANCE AND OPINIONS 
FOLLOWING THE CASE C-311/18 
SCHREMS II RULING BY THE CJEU

Adopted: 13 April 2021

3.2.3. 

Opinion 15/2021 regarding the European 
Commission Draft Implementing Decision 
pursuant to Directive (EU) 2016/680 on 
the adequate protection of personal 
data in the United Kingdom

In  considering  the  Commission’s  draft  decision  on  the 
adequacy  of  personal  data  protection  under  the  LED,  the 
EDPB  recognises  that  many  aspects  of  its  data  protection 
framework  are  essentially  equivalent  to  the  protections 
offered  in  the  EU.  The  EDPB  welcomes  the  UK’s  continued 
adherence  to  the  European  Convention  on  Human  Rights 
and Council of Europe Convention 108, and current work on 
ratifying Convention 108+.

Noting  the  possibility  that  the  UK  deviates  in  the  future 
from the EU data protection framework, the EDPB welcomes 
the addition of a sunset clause into the draft decision. The 
EDPB  highlights  the  importance  of  the  Commission  closely 
monitoring  developments 
in  the  UK’s  data  protection 
framework  such  as  international  agreements  between  the 
UK  and  third  countries  or  adequacy  decisions  adopted  by 
the UK based on standards diverging from the EU’s that may 
undermine  the  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection 
of  personal  data  transferred  from  the  EU.  Should  there  be 
developments entailing that an adequate level of protection 
can no longer be ensured in the UK, the EDPB recommends 
to the Commission that the adequacy decision is suspended, 
amended or repealed, as appropriate.

Adopted: 13 April 2021

3.3.1. 

Recommendations 01/2020 on measures 
that supplement transfer tools to ensure 
compliance with the EU level of protection 
of personal data – Version 2.0

As  part  of  its  guidance  work  following  the  Case  C-311/18 
Schrems  II  ruling  by  the  CJEU,  the  EDPB  adopted  a  final 
version of its Recommendations 01/2020 following the public 
consultation that took place at the end of 2020. These aim 
to  help  exporters  (including  controllers,  processors,  private 
entities and public bodies) with the complex task of assessing 
third  countries  and  identifying  appropriate  supplementary 
measures where they are needed. Data exporters may need 
to  adopt  supplementary  measures  to  ensure  that  the  data 
they transfer to specific third countries is afforded a level of 
protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed in the EU. 
These recommendations provide data exporters with a series 
of steps to follow, potential sources of information, and some 
examples  of  supplementary  measures  that  could  be  put  in 
place. The recommendations complement and are consistent 
with the final version of the European Commission’s Standard 
Contractual  Clauses  (SCCs)  for  international  data  transfers. 
The EDPB and the European Commission worked together to 
achieve this. These steps are illustrated below.

3.3.2. 

EDPS-EDPB Joint Opinion 02/2021 on 
standard contractual clauses for the transfer 
of personal data to third countries

The EDPB and EDPS adopted Joint Opinion 02/2021 on SCCs 
developed by the European Commission in accordance with 
Art. 46(1)(c) GDPR relating to the transfer of personal data to 
third countries. The draft SCCs update and replace the existing 

1616

EDPB Annual Report 2021Roadmap: applying the principle of accountability to 
data transfers in practice 
Roadmap: applying the principle of accountability to data transfers in practice 

Step 1: 
Know your transfers 

Step 2:  
Identify the transfer 
tool you rely on 

Step 3:  
Is the transfer tool 
eﬀective in the place of 
destination of your data? 

Adequacy decisions 
or derogation 

Transfer tools: 
SCCs/BCRs/CoC/
Certiﬁcations/… 

Yes, it oﬀers an essentially 
equivalent level of data 
protection 

No, there are gaps in the 
level of protection 

NO

Step 4:  
Can supplementary 
measures ﬁll the gaps? 

YES

Do not start transferring personal data 

Suspend/end ongoing transfers 

Step 5: 
Take applicable procedural 
steps 

Step 6: 
Regularly re-evaluate the 
level of protection of the 
personal data transferred 

1717

EDPB Annual Report 2021SCCs for international transfers that were adopted on the basis 
of Directive 95/46, and take account of the new requirements 
under the GDPR and the Schrems II judgement of the CJEU. 
Joint Opinion 02/2021 makes clear that the recommendations 
on supplementary measures are complementary to the SCCs 
and  should  therefore  guide  exporters  on  how  to  apply  the 
SCCs correctly. The EDPB also adopted Joint Opinion 01/2021 
on  standard  contractual  clauses  between  controllers  and 
processors under Art. 28(7) GDPR (see Section 5.5.5 for a full 
summary).

Adopted: 18 June 2021

3.4. 

EDPB-EDPS JOINT OPINION 05/2021 ON 
THE PROPOSAL FOR A REGULATION OF 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE 
COUNCIL LAYING DOWN HARMONISED 
RULES ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
(ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACT)

The  European  Commission  presented  its  Proposal  for  a 
Regulation 
laying  down  harmonised  rules  on  artificial 
intelligence  (Artificial  Intelligence  Act)  on  21  April  2021.  AI 
technologies  often  involve  processing  of  personal  data,  so 
the proposal has important data protection implications. The 
EDPB and the EDPS adopted Joint Opinion 5/2021. The EDPB 
and the EDPS raise the following issues:
•  Scope.  The  proposal’s  scope  should  be  expanded  so  it 
includes international law enforcement cooperation. Also, 
it should be clarified in the main text of the proposal that 
the EU data protection legislation applies to any processing 
of personal data falling within the scope of the proposal;

•  Risk-based approach and alignment with the GDPR. The 
proposal should be aligned with the GDPR when it comes 
to the concept of “risk to fundamental rights”, as well as 
regarding the rights and remedies available to individuals;

•  Prohibited uses of AI. Considering high-risk of intrusion 
into individuals’ private lives, great risk of discrimination 
and effect on human dignity, certain use of AI should be 
prohibited.  In  particular,  the  future  regulation  should 
include a general ban on any use of AI for an automated 
recognition  of  human  features  in  publicly  accessible 
spaces and should prohibit any type of social scoring. It 
is  also  recommended  to  ban  AI  systems  that  categorize 
individuals from biometrics into clusters, as well as those 
that infer emotion of natural persons; 

•  High-risk AI systems. External third parties should conduct 

ex-ante conformity assessments; 

•  Governance and European AI Board. The tasks of the EDPS 
as the competent authority and the market surveillance 
authority  for  the  supervision  of  the  Union  institutions, 
agencies and bodies need to be clarified. Data protection 
authorities should be designated as national supervisory 
authorities  for  AI  systems  considering  their  expertise 
and  the  proposal’s  close  link  with  the  data  protection 
framework.  The  supervisory  authorities  for  AI  systems 
must be completely independent in the performance of 
their task in order to guarantee proper supervision  and 
enforcement.  The  European  AI  Board  (EAIB)  should  be 
given  more  autonomy  and  powers,  moreover,  it’s  legal 
status should be clarified; 

•  Regulatory  sandboxes  and  interaction  with  the  data 
protection 
framework.  The  concept  of  regulatory 
sandboxes  should  be  specified,  and  the  EAIB  should 
provide common guidelines on their use. Clarification is 
needed on compliance mechanisms, particularly on their 
scope and relationship with other existing measures, such 
as data protection certifications, seals, marks and codes 
of conduct. 

Adopted: 18 June 2021

1818

EDPB Annual Report 20213.5. 

BINDING DECISION 01/2021 ON THE DISPUTE 
ARISEN ON THE DRAFT DECISION OF THE 
IRISH SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY REGARDING 
WHATSAPP IRELAND UNDER ART. 65(1)(A) GDPR 

The  EDPB  adopted  a  binding  decision  based  on  Art.  65(1)
(a) GDPR which sought to address the lack of consensus on 
certain aspects of a draft decision issued by the Irish SA as 
lead supervisory authority (LSA) regarding WhatsApp Ireland 
Ltd. (WhatsApp IE) and the subsequent objections expressed 
by a number of concerned supervisory authorities (CSAs). The 
Irish  SA  issued  the  draft  decision  following  an  own-volition 
inquiry into WhatsApp IE, concerning whether WhatsApp IE 
complied with its transparency obligations pursuant to Arts. 
12, 13 and 14 GDPR.  

When the Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) submits a draft 
decision  to  the  Concerned  Supervisory  Authorities  (CSAs), 
they may then raise “relevant and reasoned objections” within 
the set timeframe.  Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR requires the EDPB to 
issue a binding decision when the LSA decides not to follow a 
relevant and reasoned objection expressed by a CSA or is of 
the opinion that the objection is not relevant or reasoned. The 
EDPB sought to clarify the key concepts of this mechanism via 
two sets of guidelines. First, Guidelines 09/2020 on relevant 
and  reasoned  objection  under  Regulation  2016/679  were 
adopted  in  2020  and  finalised  after  public  consultation  in 
March 2021. Second, Guidelines 03/2021 specifically focused 
on the application of Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR and were adopted 
in 2021.

In this decision, which was the second instance of application 
of  Art.  65(1)(a)  GDPR,  after  the  binding  decision  adopted 
in  2020  addressing  a  dispute  concerning  the  Irish  SA’s 
draft  decision  on  Twitter  International  Company,  the  EDPB 
concluded that the Irish SA should amend its draft decision 
on WhatsApp IE regarding infringements of transparency, the 
period  to  bring  processing  operations  into  compliance  and 
the calculation of the fine.  

The EDPB analysed the merits of the objections it found to 
meet the “relevant and reasoned” threshold set by Art. 4(24) 
GDPR and requested the Irish SA introduce some amendments 
in its draft decision.  

Regarding transparency,  the  draft  decision  by  the  Irish  SA 
already identified a severe breach of Arts. 12 to 14 GDPR. The 
EDPB identified additional shortcomings with the information 
provided, affecting users’ ability to understand the legitimate 
interests being pursued. Therefore, the EDPB requested that 
the Irish SA to include a finding of an infringement of Art. 13(1)
(d) GDPR in its decision. The binding decision also included a 
request to include a formal finding of an infringement of Art. 
13(2)(e) GDPR. 

In  addition,  the  EDPB  clarified  that,  while  not  every 
infringement  of  Arts.  12  to  14  GDPR  necessarily  entails  an 
infringement of Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR, in this particular case, in 
light  of  the  gravity  and  the  overarching  nature  and  impact 
of the infringements, there has been an infringement of the 
transparency principle enshrined in Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR. 

Regarding  WhatsApp  IE’s collection  of  data  of  non-users 
when users decide to use the Contact Feature functionality, 
the EDPB found that the procedure used by WhatsApp IE did 
not  lead  to  anonymisation  of  the  collected  personal  data. 
Therefore, the EDPB also found that the infringement of Art. 
14 GDPR extended to WhatsApp IE’s processing of non-users’ 
personal data.  

1919

EDPB Annual Report 2021Regarding  the imposed  fine and  the  calculation  of  the  fine, 
the EDPB decided that the turnover of an undertaking is not 
exclusively  relevant  for  the  determination  of  the  maximum 
fine amount in accordance with Art. 83(4)-(6) GDPR, but it may 
also be considered for the calculation of the fine itself, where 
appropriate, to ensure the fine is effective, proportionate and 
dissuasive in accordance with Art. 83(1) GDPR. In this case, 
the  EDPB  found  the  consolidated  turnover  of  the  parent 
company (Facebook Inc.) was to be included in the turnover 
calculation. 

In  addition,  the  EDPB  clarified  its  interpretation  of  how 
the calculation of the fine was influenced by the finding of 
several  infringements  under  Art.  83(3)  GDPR.  When  faced 
with multiple infringements for the same or linked processing 
operations, all  the 
into 
consideration when calculating the amount of the fine. This 
is notwithstanding the duty on SAs to take into account the 
proportionality of the fine and to respect the maximum fine 
amount set out by the GDPR. 

infringements  should  be  taken 

The EDPB also analysed the criteria set by Art. 83(1) and (2) 
GDPR and concluded that the proposed fine did not adequately 
reflect the seriousness and severity of the infringements nor 
did it have a dissuasive effect.  Hence, the EDPB instructed the 
Irish SA to reassess its envisaged fine in accordance with the 
conclusions reached and impose a higher fine amount.  

The Irish SA draft decision included an order to WhatsApp to 
bring processing operations into compliance within a period 
of six months. The EDPB found it of primary importance that 
compliance  with  transparency  obligations  was  ensured  in 
the  shortest  timeframe  possible.  As  such,  the  Irish  SA  was 
requested to amend the six-month deadline for compliance 
to a period of three months. 

Adopted: 28 July 2021

2020

3.6. 

URGENT BINDING DECISION 01/2021 
ON THE REQUEST UNDER ART. 66(2) 
GDPR FROM THE HAMBURG (GERMAN) 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY FOR ORDERING 
THE ADOPTION OF FINAL MEASURES 
REGARDING FACEBOOK IRELAND LIMITED 

The EDPB adopted its first urgent binding decision under Art. 
66(2) GDPR following a request from the Hamburg SA, which 
had adopted provisional measures against Facebook Ireland 
Ltd.  (Facebook  IE)  under  Art.  66(1)  GDPR.  The  provisional 
measures  prohibited  Facebook  IE  from  processing,  for  3 
months,  the data of  German residents  using  WhatsApp  for 
Facebook IE’s own purposes, following a change in the Terms 
of Service and Privacy Policy applicable to European users of 
WhatsApp IE.  

The EDPB decided that the conditions to prove the existence 
of an infringement to the GDPR and the urgency to adopt final 
measures were not met, hence stating that the Irish SA did 
not need to adopt final measures against Facebook IE. 

On  the  issue  of  an  infringement,  the  EDPB  concluded 
there  was  a  high  likelihood  that  Facebook  IE  was  already 
processing  WhatsApp’s  user  data  as  a  (joint)  controller  for 
the common purposes of (i) safety, security and integrity of 
WhatsApp IE and the other Facebook Companies,¹ and of (ii) 
improvement  of  the  products  of  the  Facebook  Companies. 
However,  due  to  various  contradictions,  ambiguities  and 
uncertainties  in  WhatsApp’s  user-facing  information  and 
written commitments by Facebook IE and WhatsApp IE, the 
EDPB decided that it was not able to determine with certainty 
which  processing  operations  are  actually  being  carried  out 
and in which capacity.  

Moreover,  the  EDPB  did  not  have  enough  information  to 
determine  with  certainty  whether  Facebook  IE  had  already 
started to process WhatsApp’s user data as a (joint) controller 
for  its  own  purposes  of  marketing  communications  and 

EDPB Annual Report 2021In addition, taking into consideration the lack of information 
as  regards  how  personal  data  are  processed  for  marketing 
purposes, cooperation with other Facebook Companies and 
in relation to WhatsApp Business API, the EDPB called upon 
the Irish SA to further investigate the role of Facebook IE, i.e. 
whether Facebook IE was acting as a processor or a (joint) 
controller, with respect to these processing operations. 

Adopted: 12 July 2021

¹. “Facebook Companies” refers to the term as it was defined 
by WhatsApp in its public-facing information at the time when 
the EDPB adopted its urgent binding decision (i.e. before the 
Facebook Group was renamed Meta Group).

direct marketing, and cooperation with the other Facebook 
Companies.  The  EDPB  could  also  not  conclude  whether 
Facebook  IE  had  already  started  or  would  soon  start 
processing WhatsApp’s user data as a (joint) controller for its 
own purpose in relation to WhatsApp Business API. 

On the existence of urgency, the EDPB rejected the Hamburg 
SA’s  argument  based  on  Art.  61(8)  GDPR  as  it  did  not 
demonstrate that the Irish SA had failed to provide information 
in the context of a formal request for mutual assistance under 
Art. 61 GDPR. Besides, the EDPB decided that the adoption 
of  WhatsApp  IE’s  Updated  Terms,  which  contained  similar 
problematic elements as the previous terms, could not, on its 
own, justify the urgency for the EDPB to order the Irish SA to 
adopt final measures. Consequently, the EDPB concluded that 
there was no urgency for the Irish SA to issue final measures 
against Facebook IE in this case.  

However, considering the high likelihood of infringements in 
particular for the purposes of (i) safety, security and integrity 
of WhatsApp IE and the other Facebook Companies, and of 
(ii) improvement of the products of the Facebook Companies, 
the EDPB requested the Irish SA to perform, as a matter of 
priority,  a  statutory  investigation.  In  particular,  to  show 
whether Facebook IE was processing WhatsApp user data for 
such a common purpose of Facebook Companies as a (joint) 
controller. The Irish SA was requested to verify whether, in 
practice, Facebook Companies were carrying out processing 
operations, which implies the combination or comparison of 
WhatsApp IE’s user data with other data sets processed by 
other Facebook Companies in the context of other apps or 
services offered by the Facebook Companies, facilitated inter 
alia by the use of unique identifiers. The EDPB asked the Irish 
SA to  determine  whether  such  processing  activities  were 
taking  place  or  not  and,  if  they  were,  whether  they  had  a 
proper legal basis under Art. 5(1)(a) and Art. 6(1) GDPR.  

2121

EDPB Annual Report 20214

2021 - THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

4.1. 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

The EDPB Secretariat, which is provided by the European Data 
Protection Supervisor (EDPS), offers analytical, administrative 
and logistical support to the EDPB. The EDPB Secretariat is 
in charge of drafting EDPB documents, providing IT solutions 
to  ensure  transparent  communications  between  all  the 
European  national  Supervisory  Authorities  (SAs),  handling 
EDPB media relations, as well as organising all EDPB meetings. 

A Memorandum of Understanding establishes the terms of 
cooperation  between  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS.  The  staff  at 
the  EDPB  Secretariat  are  employed  by  the  EDPS,  however, 
they  only  work  under  the  instructions  of  the  Chair  of  the 
EDPB. At the end of 2021, the staff of the EDPB Secretariat 
was  composed  of  31  FTE  staff  members:  one  head  of  the 
EDPB  Secretariat,  6  heads  of  activity,  12  legal  officers,  4 

communication officers, 6 administrative assistants and 2 IT 
officers.  The  EDPB  Secretariat  also  received  the  support  of 
three IT external contractors.

The  EDPB  Secretariat  led  the  drafting  of  over  35%  of  the 
guidelines,  opinions,  recommendations  and  statements 
adopted by the EDPB in 2021 and contributed to a further 
25%. In particular, the EDPB Secretariat led the drafting of the 
Recommendation 01/2020 on the supplementary measures; 
the EDPB binding decisions (under Art. 65 and Art. 66 GDPR), 
and the EDPB Strategy and Work Programme.

The EDPB held 389 meetings, including 15 plenary meetings, 
200  expert  subgroup  meetings  and  174  drafting  team 
meetings, in comparison to about 100 meetings per year held 
before the pandemic.

22

EDPB Annual Report 20214.2. 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT'S CONTRIBUTION 
TO THE NATIONAL SAs’ COOPERATION  

and  duly  approved  by  LSAs.  See  more  information  under 
Section 6.1.3 of this Annual Report.

As  part  of  its  2021-2023  Strategy,  the  EDPB  established  a 
Support Pool of Experts (SPE) in 2020. The terms of reference 
of the SPE specify that its objectives are to provide material 
support  to  the  EDPB  Members  in  the  form  of  expertise 
that  is  useful  for  investigations  and  enforcement  activities, 
and  to  enhance  cooperation  and  solidarity  between  the 
EDPB  Members  by  sharing,  reinforcing  and  complementing 
strengths  and  addressing  operational  needs.  In  October 
2021, a new Head of Activity for Enforcement Support and 
Coordination  was  appointed  to  coordinate  the  work  of  the 
SPE and, in December 2021, EDPB members agreed on SPE 
priorities for 2022.

Further in line with the 2021-2023 Strategy, the EDPB set up a 
Coordinated Enforcement Framework (CEF). The CEF provides 
a  structure  for  recurring  annual  coordinated  action  by  the 
SAs. The CEF aims to facilitate joint actions in a flexible and 
coordinated  manner,  ranging  from  joint  awareness  raising 
and information gathering to enforcement sweeps and joint 
investigations.  The  purpose  behind  the  recurring  annual 
coordinated actions is to promote compliance, empower data 
subjects  to  exercise  their  rights  and  raise  awareness.  EDPB 
members  agreed  to  launch  the  first  coordinated  action  in 
2022 on the use of Cloud based services by the public sector. 
The EDPB Secretariat is contributing to this work.

The EDPB Secretariat is also in charge of the management of 
a register on the EDPB website gathering the final decisions 
taken  concerning  cross-border  cases  in  the  context  of  the 
One-Stop-Shop  (OSS)  mechanism.  The  register  offers  an 
exceptional  opportunity  to  read  final  decisions  taken  by, 
and involving, different SAs in a cross-border context. These 
decisions  often  contain  useful  guidance  on  how  to  comply 
with  the  GDPR  in  practice.  The  register  contains  both  final 
decisions and summaries prepared by the EDPB Secretariat 

2323

In the context of cooperation between SAs in the assessment 
of  Binding  Corporate  Rules  (BCR)  applications,  the  EDPB 
Secretariat organised four BCR sessions in 2021. The sessions 
streamlined  discussions  between  the  SAs  and  the  EDPB 
Secretariat regarding specific aspects of individual BCRs with 
the  aim  to  facilitate  the  assessment  of  the  BCRs  and  work 
out a consensus on the standards and expectations for BCRs, 
before the formal procedure is triggered under Art. 64 GDPR. 
The BCR sessions thus represent a prior informal cooperation 
phase that aims to address remaining issues that have arisen 
regarding a specific BCR based on shared comments by the 
SAs and the EDPB Secretariat.

Additionally,  several 
informal  sessions  were  organised 
regarding  certification  criteria.  These  sessions  fostered 
discussion  between  the  SAs  and  the  EDPB  Secretariat  on 
specific  certification  criteria  that  may  be  submitted  to  the 
EDPB under Art. 64(1)(c) GDPR.

4.3. 

IT COMMUNICATIONS TOOL (INTERNAL MARKET 
INFORMATION) AND THE NEW EDPB WEBSITE 

With  regard  to  the  technical  support  for  SAs’  cooperation, 
throughout 2021, the EDPB Secretariat continued to provide 
support  to  the  SAs  with  IT  solutions  that  facilitate  their 
communication.  In  this  respect,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  leads 
the IT Users Expert Subgroup which focuses on assessing the 
need for development and making changes to the IMI system. 
Furthermore, it continued to work on best practices to further 
refine the procedures in use and to share its expertise on the 
use  of  the  IMI  System  for  the  cooperation  and  consistency 
mechanism.  The  EDPB  Secretariat  also  provides  an  IMI 
helpdesk to support the staff of the SAs making use of the IMI 
system. The EDPB IMI helpdesk dealt with 331 requests for 
support from SAs, and carried out 159 proactive monitoring 

EDPB Annual Report 2021In  2021,  the  EDPB  received  39  public  access  requests  for 
documents  held  by  the  EDPB.  Confirmatory  applications 
were received in two cases. The EDPB Secretariat is in charge 
of  preparing  the  answers  to  those  requests,  subject  to  the 
validation of the EDPB Chair (for confirmatory applications) 
and Deputy chairs (for initial applications), in accordance with 
Art. 32(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure.

A complaint was made to the European Ombudsman regarding 
an  EDPB  confirmatory  decision  for  a  request  for  access  to 
documents,  which  was  submitted  in  2020.²  The  request 
concerned access to some of the preparatory documents for 
the EDPB Guidelines 02/2019 on the processing of personal 
data in the context of the provision of online services to data 
subjects.  Following  a  reassessment  of  the  documents,  the 
EDPB decided to grant partial access to these documents as 
the fact that differing views expressed in the documents were 
already publicly known. The complainant was satisfied with 
the EDPB’s reply and the Ombudsman decided to close the 
case.

². Decision on the EDPB’s refusal to grant public access to the 
preparatory documents for its Guidelines on the processing 
of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  the  provision  of  online 
services (case 86/2021/AMF).

procedures  to  ensure  that  case  files  were  complete  and 
correctly registered.  

The EDPB Secretariat also migrated the EDPB Wiki platform 
used  for  internal  sharing  of  information  to  a  new  instance 
dedicated to the EDPB and with an enhanced user experience.  

In 2021, the EDPB Secretariat enhanced the EDPB website, 
‘edpb.europa.eu’, which underwent a new web design.

In  the  context  of  functionality,  the  website  now  supports 
dynamic  listing  of  documents  and  filters,  which  improves 
user  experience  by  eliminating  numerous  general  search 
queries. The communication functionality was improved by 
providing  a  new  contact  form  on  the  website.  The  content 
management  system  of  the  website,  which  manages  the 
creation  and  modification  of  digital  content,  was  upgraded 
to Drupal 8. The EDPB Secretariat is also putting great efforts 
into implementing a new advanced search functionality that 
will make the website more user-friendly.

4.4. 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT'S ACTIVITIES 
RELATING TO ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS 

Transparency  is  a  core  principle  of  the  EDPB.  As  an  EU 
body,  the  EDPB  is  subject  to  Art.  15  of  the  Treaty  of  the 
Functioning  of  the  European  Union,  Regulation  1049/2001 
on public access to documents. Art. 76(2) GDPR and Art. 32 
of the EDPB’s Rules of Procedure reinforce this requirement. 
The  principle  of  transparency  provides  any  EU  citizen,  and 
any natural or legal person residing or having its registered 
office in a Member State, with the right of access to EDPB 
documents. This right applies to all documents held by the 
EDPB, concerning any matter relating to its responsibilities. In 
exceptional cases, the EDPB may refuse to disclose all or part 
of a document. The reasons for refusal and other procedural 
rules are outlined in Regulation 1049/2001 on public access 
to documents.

2424

EDPB Annual Report 20214.5. 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT'S ACTIVITIES RELATING 
TO DATA PROTECTION OFFICER ACTIVITIES 

The  EDPB  processes  personal  data  following  Regulation 
2018/1725 on the protection of natural persons with regard 
to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, 
bodies,  offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of 
such data (Regulation 2018/1725). In accordance with Art. 43 
of Regulation 2018/1725, the EDPB has designated its own 
DPO team, which is part of the EDPB Secretariat, to handle 
the processing of personal data. The DPO’s position and tasks 
are defined in Arts. 44 and 45 of Regulation 2018/1725, and 
are further detailed in the EDPB DPO Implementing Rules.

In  2021,  the  EDPB,  with  the  assistance  of  its  DPO  team, 
continued  to  strengthen  the  compliance  with  Regulation 
2018/1725 by enhancing its transparency practices through 
different means, such as:
•  The  development,  publication  and  update  of  several 

privacy notices;

•  The  continued  development  of  several  records,  as  well 
as a centralised register for records, which will be made 
available on the EDPB website;

•  The  update  of  its  DPO  website  page  with  additional 

information; and

•  The improvement of its contact form on the EDPB website.

launched  several 

Furthermore,  the  DPO  team 
internal 
legal  assessments  on  various  issues  concerning  the  EDPB’s 
processing  of  personal  data  and  identified  suitable  legal, 
organisational  and,  where  applicable,  technical  solutions. 
The assessments were also conducted as part of the DPO’s 
advisory role for the EDPB.

In  2021,  the  DPO  team  assisted  with  the  handling  of  six 
data subject requests under Art. 17 to Art. 24 of Regulation 
2018/1725, which indicates a decrease in relation to 2020.

Regarding  data  breaches,  the  DPO  team  assisted  with 
the handling of 12 data breaches under Arts. 34 and 35 of 
Regulation  2018/1725,  which  represents  an  increase  in 
relation  to  2020.  The  assessment  of  the  majority  of  these 
data breaches indicated that they were unlikely to result in 
a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. At the 
time of the drafting of this report, only one data breach had 
required a notification to the EDPS.

The DPO team also assisted with several replies to individual 
requests  for  information  involving  the  processing  of  their 
personal data, including cases where individuals mistakenly 
assumed that the EDPB processed their personal data.

In addition, the DPO team delivered several internal training 
sessions  and  created  awareness-raising  material,  aimed  at 
EDPB Secretariat staff. These activities were tailored to the 
needs  and  expertise  of  the  participants  to  ensure  that  all 
staff  members,  in  particular  newcomers,  were  adequately 
informed of their duties regarding personal data processing, 
but also of their rights as data subjects.

Finally, the EDPB DPO team continued to liaise closely with 
other  EU  institutions,  bodies  and  agencies  and  their  DPOs, 
particularly in matters involving or related to the processing 
of  personal  data,  but  also  to  ensure  the  exchange  of  good 
practices,  common  experiences  and  tailored  approaches  to 
specific data protection challenges. To this end, the DPO team 
participated in the EU institutions’ network of DPOs and the 
EDPB network of DPOs, comprising the DPOs of national SAs, 
the EDPS and the EDPB.

2525

EDPB Annual Report 20215

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD

- ACTIVITIES IN 2021

To ensure the consistent application of the GDPR across the 
EEA,  the  EDPB  issues  general  guidance  to  clarify  European 
data protection laws. This guidance provides the public and 
stakeholders with a consistent interpretation of their rights 
and  obligations,  and  ensures  that  national  Supervisory 
Authorities (SAs) have a benchmark for applying and enforcing 
the GDPR. The EDPB is also empowered to issue opinions or 
binding decisions to guarantee the consistent application of 
the GDPR by SAs. Throughout 2021, the EDPB issued multiple 
guidance and consistency documents, as summarised below. 

5.1. 

GENERAL GUIDANCE (GUIDELINES 
AND RECOMMENDATIONS)

In  2021,  the  EDPB  adopted  several  guidelines  and 
recommendations  on  the  data  protection  requirements 
pertaining to data breach notifications, on codes of conduct 
as data transfer tools, storing credit card data, virtual voice 
assistants  and  the  meaning  of  specific  terms  in  the  GDPR. 
These  guidelines  and  recommendations  are  summarised 
below.

26

EDPB Annual Report 20215.1.1. 

Guidelines 01/2021 on examples regarding 
personal data breach notification

6.  Social engineering refers to attacks involving identity theft 

and email exfiltration.

For each category of personal data breaches, the guidelines 
provide  advisable,  but  not  exclusive  or  comprehensive, 
practical  measures  and  thus  provide  guidance  for  dealing 
with data breaches and future prevention.

Adopted:  14  January  2021  and  adopted  in  its  final  version 
following public consultation on 14 December 2021

5.1.2. 

Recommendations 01/2021 on the adequacy 
referential under the Law Enforcement Directive

See Section 3.2.1 for the full summary.

The  EDPB  issued  recommendations  to  provide  guidance  to 
the  European  Commission  on  the  level  of  data  protection 
in third countries and international organisations under the 
Law  Enforcement  Directive  (LED).  It  establishes  the  core 
data protection principles that have to be present in a third 
country’s  legal  framework  or  an  international  organisation 
to  ensure  essential  equivalence  with  the  EU  framework 
within the scope of the LED. In addition, it may guide third 
countries  and 
in 
obtaining adequacy. The finding of an adequate level of data 
protection does not require a demonstration of a point-by-
point mirroring of EU legislation, but rather the effectiveness 
of the core requirements of legislation in a third country (i.e. 
enforced and followed in practice). 

international  organisations 

interested 

Adopted:  2  February  2021;  formatting  changes  made  on  6 
July 2021 

The EDPB guidelines aim to help data controllers in deciding 
how to handle personal data breaches and what factors to 
consider  during  risk  assessment.  Art.  4(12)  GDPR  defines 
a  “personal  data  breach”  as  “a  breach  of  security  leading 
to  the  accidental  or  unlawful  destruction,  loss,  alteration, 
unauthorised  disclosure  of,  or  access  to,  personal  data 
transmitted,  stored  or  otherwise  processed”.  The  practice-
oriented,  case-based  guidance  complements  the  Article  29 
Working Party Guidelines on personal data breach notification 
under Regulation 2016/679, WP 250 and reflects the common 
experiences of the EEA SAs since the GDPR became applicable. 

The  guidelines  address  six  categories  of  personal  data 
breaches  and  in  relation  to  each  of  them  outline  several 
examples of typical situations based on the SAs’ experiences. 
The  categories  of  personal  data  breaches  addressed  in  the 
guidelines are as follows:
1.  Ransomware  attacks  involve  malicious  code  encrypting 
personal  data,  where  the  attacker  requires  a  ransom  in 
exchange for a decryption code.

2.  Data exfiltration attacks exploit vulnerabilities in services 
offered over the internet and usually aim to copy, exfiltrate 
and abuse personal data for some malicious end.

3.  Internal  human-related  risk  source  refers  to  human 
errors that lead to personal data breaches, which can have 
a  frequent  occurrence  and  can  be  both  deliberate  and 
accidental, therefore making it difficult for data controllers 
to identify weaknesses and take steps to avoid them.

4.  Loss or theft of devices and/or documents is a frequent 
occurrence of a data breach that might present a difficult 
risk assessment when devices are no longer available.

5.  Mispostal 

involves 

internal  human  error  due 

to 

inattentiveness; there is no malicious action.

2727

EDPB Annual Report 20215.1.3. 

Guidance Addendum on certification criteria 
assessment (Addendum to Guidelines 1/2018 
on certification and identifying certification 
criteria in accordance with Arts. 42 and 43 GDPR) 

The EDPB expanded the framework on certification criteria by 
adopting this guidance that supplements Guidelines 01/2018 
on certification and identifying certification criteria according 
to Arts. 42 and 43 GDPR (Guidelines 1/2018) and Guidelines 
04/2018  on  the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  under 
Art.  43  GDPR  (2016/679).  The  improvement  of  certain 
aspects of Guidelines 01/2018 aims at assisting stakeholders 
involved in the drafting of certification criteria in the context 
of GDPR certification as well as helping SAs and the EDPB in 
providing  consistent  evaluation  with  regard  to  certification 
criteria approval.

Scheme owners that intend to submit a certification scheme 
may  be  required  to  commence  early  informal  engagement 
with the competent SA, which will aid the preparations and 
clarify the expectations on the scheme.

Controllers  or  processors  may  apply  for  certification  of 
processing  activities  that  involve  personal  data,  however, 
GDPR  certification  cannot  be  provided  for  standalone 
products.

All  certification  schemes  shall  have  a  clearly  defined  scope 
while  indicating  what  is  not  permissible,  in  order  to  avoid 
“scope creep”. The scope has to be practical, tractable and 
provide an added value.

Certification  is  not  about  stating  an  entity  is  100%  GDPR 
compliant,  but  instead  aims  to  show,  regarding  a  concrete 
Target of Evaluation and its processing operations, that the 
applicant  made  everything  possible  to  satisfy  certification 
criteria. The guidance outlines in detail the proper framing of 
certification criteria and the elements that should be taken 
into account with regard to certification criteria updates.

Adopted:  6  April  2021  and  adopted  in  its  final  version 
following public consultation on 14 December 2021

5.1.4. 

Guidelines 02/2021 on virtual voice assistants

Recent  technological  advances  have  greatly 
increased 
the  accuracy  and  popularity  of  virtual  voice  assistants 
(VVA). Among other devices, VVAs have been integrated in 
smartphones, connected vehicles, smart speakers and smart 
TVs.

A VVA is a service that has the capacity to understand and 
execute voice requests, as well as to mediate with other IT 
systems if necessary. Crucial to a VVA’s nature is the access 
and processing of a huge amount of personal data that carries 
important  data  protection  implications.  The  EDPB  adopted 
these guidelines in order to advise relevant stakeholders on 
how to address the most relevant data protection and privacy 
compliance challenges for VVAs.

The EDPB provides guidance on appropriate legal basis for four 
of the most common purposes for processing personal data 
by  VVAs:  the  execution  of  user  requests,  the  improvement 
of the VVA machine learning model, biometric identification, 
and profiling for personalised content or advertising. In this 
respect,  in  addition  to  the  GDPR,  the  Directive  on  Privacy 
and  Electronic  Communications  (ePrivacy  Directive)  has  to 
be considered. Based on its Art. 5(3), prior consent of a user 
would  be  necessary  for  the  storing  or  gaining  of  access  to 
information  for  any  purpose  other  than  executing  a  user’s 
request.

The guidelines also give advice on transparency requirements 
and  recall  that,  even  when  it  comes  to  screenless  devices, 
VVA  providers  must  inform  users  according  to  the  GDPR 
when setting up the VVA installation or using a VVA app for 
the first time. All users should also be able to exercise their 
rights through  voice  commands.  Further,  the  guidelines 

2828

EDPB Annual Report 2021include  a  list  of  recommendations  on  such  matters  as 
processing of children’s data and sensitive data, as well as on 
data deletion and data security.

Adopted:  9  March  2021  and  adopted  in  its  final  version 
following public consultation on 7 July 2021

5.1.5. 

Guidelines 03/2021 on the application 
of Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR

Art.  65(1)(a)  GDPR 
is  a  dispute  resolution  mechanism 
provided by the EDPB in case of dispute between SAs relating 
to the enforcement activities in the framework of a One-Stop-
Shop (OSS) procedure. It is designed to guarantee the GDPR’s 
correct and consistent application in circumstances involving 
cross-border processing of personal data.

This mechanism aims at settling  conflicting views arising on 
the merits of a case between the Lead Supervisory Authority 
(LSA) and Concerned Supervisory Authorities (CSAs) who have 
lodged relevant and reasoned objections on a draft decision. 

The EDPB elaborates on the application of relevant provisions 
of the GDPR and the EDPB Rules of Procedure, lays out an 
outline of the main stages of the procedure and clarifies its 
competence when adopting a legally binding decision under 
Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR. The guidelines also include an overview of 
the applicable procedural safeguards (such as the right to be 
heard, access to the file and the duty to give reasons).

Adopted: 13 April 2021

This increase heightens the risk of fraud associated with the 
use of credit card data online. Against this background, the 
EDPB has issued recommendations clarifying the legal basis 
for the storage of credit card data by online providers of goods 
and services, for the sole and specific purpose of facilitating 
further purchases by data subjects. These recommendations 
cover situations in which data subjects buy a product or pay 
for a service via a website or an application and provide their 
credit card data in order to conclude a unique transaction.

In such situations, consent (Art. 6(1)(a) GPDR) appears to be 
the sole appropriate legal basis for storing credit card data for 
future purchases. The controller should ensure that the data 
subject provides GDPR-standard consent to store the credit 
card data after a purchase. The consent must be freely given, 
specific,  informed  and  unambiguous.  It  must  be  delivered 
by  a  clear  affirmative  action  and  should  be  requested  in  a 
user-friendly way, such as through a checkbox that is not pre-
ticked. Additionally, it must be distinguished from the consent 
given for terms of service or sales and it cannot be a condition 
to the completion of a transaction.

In  accordance  with  Art.  7(3)  GDPR,  data  subjects  have  the 
right to withdraw their consent for the storing of credit card 
data for the purposes of facilitating further purchases at any 
time. Such withdrawal must be free, simple and as easy for 
the data subject as it was to give consent. As a consequence 
of  a  withdrawal,  the  controller  must  effectively  delete  the 
credit  card  data  stored  for  the  sole  purpose  of  facilitating 
further online transactions.

5.1.6. 

Recommendations 02/2021 on the 
legal basis for the storage of credit card 
data for the sole purpose of facilitating 
further online transactions 

Adopted: 19 May 2021

5.1.7. 

Guidelines 04/2021 on codes of 
conduct as tools for transfers

The  continuous  development  of  the  digital  economy  and 
e-commerce has increased the number of online transactions. 

The EDPB expanded the general framework for the adoption 
of codes of conduct (CoCs) provided under Guidelines 1/2019 

2929

EDPB Annual Report 2021on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring Bodies under Regulation 
2016/679 by adopting these complementary guidelines. Their 
main purpose is to specify the application of Art. 40(3) and 
Art. 46(2)(e) GDPR relating to CoCs as appropriate safeguards 
for transfers of personal data to third countries. These GDPR 
provisions  stipulate  that  a  valid  CoC  may  also  be  adhered 
to  and  used  by  controllers  and  processors  not  subject  to 
the GDPR to provide appropriate safeguards for transfers of 
personal data outside of the EEA.

The CoC must be accompanied by a legally binding instrument, 
whereby  the  data  importer  commits  to  comply  with  the 
obligations set forth in the CoC, in order to ensure that the 
transferred personal data remains adequately protected, as 
per GDPR standards, when transferred outside the EEA. From 
a  content  perspective,  the  CoC  should  provide  appropriate 
safeguards  that  include  (1)  essential  principles,  rights  and 
obligations under the GDPR and (2) guarantees specific to the 
context of the transfer.

The guidelines include a checklist of minimum elements that a 
transfer CoC should include, which, depending on the transfer 
scenario,  may  need  to  be  supplemented  with  additional 
commitments and measures.

In  terms  of  the  adoption  process,  the  parties  submitting  a 
transfer CoC for approval must obtain the approval decision 
of  the  CSA  following  a  favourable  opinion  from  the  EDPB 
and an implementing decision by the European Commission 
giving general validity to the CoC.

Adopted: 7 July 2021

5.1.8. 

Guidelines 05/2021 on the Interplay 
between the application of Art. 3 and 
the provisions on international transfers 
as per Chapter V of the GDPR

To clarify the interplay between the territorial scope of Art. 3 
GDPR and the provisions on international transfers in Chapter 
V  of  the  GDPR,  the  EDPB’s  guidance  provides  a  consistent 
interpretation  of  the  concept  of  international  transfers.  It 
aims  to  assist  controllers  and  processors  with  identifying 
whether a processing operation constitutes an international 
transfer.

There are three cumulative criteria that must be met for data 
processing to be classified as a transfer:
1.  A  controller  or  processor  (“exporter”)  is  subject  to  the 

GDPR for the given processing;

2.  This controller or processor transmits or makes available 
the personal data to another controller, joint controller or 
processor; and

3.  This other controller, joint controller or processor is in a 
third  country  or  is  an  international  organisation  (“data 
importer”), irrespective of whether or not the importer is 
already subject to the GDPR under Art. 3 GDPR.

The  EDPB  clarifies  that  disclosure  of  data  made  directly 
available by individuals and on their own initiative, are not 
transfers as there is no data exporter, meaning a controller or 
processor sending the data abroad.

If the identified criteria are not met, there is no transfer and 
Chapter V of the GDPR does not apply.

Adopted: 18 November 2021

3030

EDPB Annual Report 20215.1.9. 

Guidelines adopted after public consultation

The first version of the guidelines was adopted on 8 October 
2020  and  updates  were  included  in  the  guidelines  in  2021 
following the public consultation.

5.1.9.1.  Guidelines 09/2020 on relevant and reasoned 

objection under Regulation 2016/679

Adopted: 9 March 2021

5.1.9.2.  Guidelines 01/2020 on processing personal 

data in the context of connected vehicles 
and mobility related applications

As  they  move  into  our  everyday  lives,  connected  vehicles 
have become a significant subject for regulators, particularly 
as  they  require  personal  data  processing  within  a  complex 
ecosystem.

The  guidelines  focus  on  the  processing  of  personal  data  in 
relation  to  the  non-professional  use  of  connected  vehicles. 
They clarify key privacy and data protection risks, including 
the security of personal data, ensuring full control over the 
processing, the appropriate legal basis for the processing and 
how GDPR-compliant consent should be collected.

To  help  controllers  mitigate  the  risks  for  data  subjects,  the 
EDPB  identifies  three  categories  of  personal  data  requiring 
special attention:
1.  Location data, which has a particularly sensitive nature, 

due to it possibly revealing life habits;

2.  Biometric data, for which special protection is provided 

in Art. 9 GDPR;

3.  Data  revealing  criminal  offences  and  other  infractions, 
whose processing is subject to the safeguards contained 
in Art. 10 GDPR.

To clarify the OSS cooperation mechanism for SAs outlined 
in  the  GDPR,  the  EDPB  guidance  establishes  a  common 
understanding  of  the  notion  of  a  “relevant  and  reasoned” 
objection,  on  the  basis  of  the  definition  enshrined  in  Art. 
4(24) GDPR, and addresses its interpretation.

Under  the  OSS  cooperation  mechanism,  and  specifically 
under Art. 60(3) and (4) GDPR, an LSA is required to submit 
a draft decision to the CSAs, who may then raise a “relevant 
and  reasoned  objection”  within  a  set  timeframe.  In  this 
context, the EDPB further clarifies the meaning of each of the 
elements of the definition in Art. 4(24) GDPR.

The  guidelines  explain  that  in  order  for  an  objection  to  be 
“relevant”, there should be a direct connection between the 
substance  of  the  draft  decision  at  hand  and  the  objection, 
since the objection, if followed, would entail a change to the 
draft  decision  leading  to  a  different  conclusion.  The  EDPB 
further  clarifies  that  the  objection  needs  to  concern  either 
whether  there  is  an  infringement  of  the  GDPR  or  whether 
the  envisaged  action  towards  the  controller  or  processor 
complies with the GDPR.

The objection will be adequately “reasoned” when it is clear, 
precise, coherent and detailed in explaining the reasons for 
objection, through legal or factual arguments. The EDPB also 
provides clarification on the obligation for the CSAs to clearly 
demonstrate  in  their  objection  the  significance  of  the  risks 
posed by the draft decision for the fundamental rights and 
freedoms  of  data  subjects  and,  where  applicable,  the  free 
flow of personal data.

3131

EDPB Annual Report 2021The EDPB also highlights the interplay between the GDPR and 
the ePrivacy Directive, noting that the connected vehicle and 
any  device  connected  to  it  should  be  considered  “terminal 
equipment”  for  the  purposes  of  Art.  5(3)  of  the  ePrivacy 
Directive. It further outlines the considerations to be taken 
for a lawful processing under the two instruments.

Lastly, the EDPB presents multiple case studies, such as “pay 
as you drive” insurance schemes, automatic emergency calls 
and accidentology studies.

The first version of the guidelines was adopted on 28 January 
2020  and  updates  were  included  in  the  guidelines  in  2021 
following the public consultation.

Adopted: 9 March 2021

5.1.9.3.  Guidelines 08/2020 on the targeting 

of social media users

As  mechanisms  used  to  target  social  media  users  become 
more sophisticated and an increasingly large number of data 
sources are combined and analysed for targeting purposes, 
the topic has gained increased public interest and regulatory 
scrutiny.

Within this environment, the EDPB identifies three key actors:
1.  Users: individuals who make use of social media;

2.  Social media providers: providers of an online service that 

enables the development of networks of users;

3.  Targeters: natural or legal persons that use social media 

services to direct specific messages to users.

Referring to relevant case law of the CJEU, such as the judgments 
in  Case  C-40/17  (Fashion  ID),  Case  C-25/17  (Jehovah’s 
Witnesses)  and  Case  C-210/16 
(Wirtschaftsakademie), 
the  EDPB  provides  specific  examples  to  clarify  the  roles  of 
targeters and social media providers within different targeting 

mechanisms. Social media providers and targeters are often 
identified as joint controllers for the purposes of Art. 26 GDPR.

When it comes to targeting social media users, they may be 
targeted on the basis of provided, observed or inferred data, 
as well as a combination thereof.

There are numerous risks posed to the rights and freedoms 
of  individuals  as  a  result  of  processing  personal  data, 
including  the  possibility  of  discrimination  and  exclusion, 
and the potential for manipulating and influencing users. In 
this  context,  the  EDPB  highlights  the  relevant  transparency 
requirements,  the  right  of  access  and  the  joint  controllers’ 
duty to conduct a Data Protection Impact Assessment if the 
processing operations are “likely to result in a high risk” to the 
rights and freedoms of data subjects.

The first version of the guidelines was adopted on 2 September 
2020  and  updates  were  included  in  the  guidelines  in  2021 
following the public consultation.

Adopted: 13 April 2021

3232

EDPB Annual Report 20215.1.9.4.  Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that 

supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance 
with the EU level of protection of personal data

The first version of the guidelines was adopted on 2 September 
2020  and  updates  were  included  in  the  guidelines  in  2021 
following the public consultation.  

In  its  judgment  in  Case  C-311/18  (Schrems  II),  the  CJEU 
reaffirmed that the protection granted to personal data in the 
EEA must travel with the data wherever it goes. The level of 
protection in third countries does not need to be identical to 
that  guaranteed  within  the  EEA,  but  essentially  equivalent. 
According  to  the  CJEU,  data  exporters  may  implement 
supplementary measures to fill gaps in protection and bring 
it  up  to  the  level  required  by  EU  law,  where  Art.  46  GDPR 
transfer tools cannot guarantee it by themselves. The EDPB 
issued recommendations on 10 November 2020 that provide 
data  exporters  with  a  series  of  six  steps  to  follow  to  apply 
the  principle  of  accountability  to  data  transfers,  and  some 
examples of supplementary measures. Updates were included 
in the guidelines in 2021 following the public consultation.

Adopted: 18 June 2021

5.1.9.5.  Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of 

controller and processor in the GDPR

This  updated  EDPB  guidance  builds  upon  and  replaces  the 
Article  29  Working  Party  Opinion  01/2010  on  the  concepts 
of  “controller”  and  “processor”  (WP169).  The  correct 
interpretation of the concepts of controller, joint controller 
and  processor  have  been  crucial  in  the  application  of  the 
GDPR, since these actors determine who shall be responsible 
for compliance with different data protection rules, and how 
data subjects can exercise their rights in practice.  

Following the public consultation, the EDPB further elaborated 
upon its guidance, adding clarifications on, amongst others, 
the distinction between essential and non-essential means, 
issues concerning joint controllership and processors’ roles in 
relation to data breaches.  

Adopted: 7 July 2021 

5.1.9.6.  Guidelines 10/2020 on restrictions 

under Art. 23 GDPR 

The  GDPR  allows  for  data  subject  rights  to  be  restricted 
in  exceptional  circumstances.  The  EDPB  adopted  the  final 
version  of  its  guidance  with  regards  to  restrictions  of  data 
subject rights under Art. 23 GDPR. The guidelines recall the 
conditions surrounding the use of such restrictions in light of 
the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and the GDPR. They 
provide a thorough analysis of the criteria to apply restrictions, 
the assessments that must be observed, how data subjects 
can exercise their rights after the restrictions are lifted, and 
the consequences of infringing Art. 23 GDPR.  

The  first  version  of  the  guidelines  was  adopted  on  15 
December 2020 and updates were included in the guidelines 
in 2021 following the public consultation.

Adopted: 13 October 2021

5.2. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS 

5.2.1. 

Opinions on draft decisions regarding 
Binding Corporate Rules 

SAs may approve Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) within the 
meaning of Art. 47 GDPR. BCRs are data protection policies 
implemented and adhered to within a group of enterprises 
established in the EEA for transfers of personal data outside 
the EEA within the same group. In 2021, several SAs submitted 
their  draft  decisions  regarding  the  controller  or  processor 

3333

EDPB Annual Report 2021BCRs of various companies to the EDPB, requesting an opinion 
under Art. 64(1)(f) GDPR. The EDPB issued eighteen opinions 
on BCRs.

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Kumon Group Adopted: 16 February 
2021 

In  all  instances,  the  EDPB  concluded  that  the  draft  BCRs 
contained all required elements and guaranteed appropriate 
safeguards to ensure that the level of protection guaranteed 
by  the  GDPR  is  not  undermined  when  personal  data  is 
transferred to and processed by the group members based 
in  third  countries.  It  is  without  prejudice  to  the  obligation 
of the data exporter to assess whether, in the specific case, 
additional  measures  are  necessary  in  order  to  ensure  an 
essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the 
EU. In any case, on the basis of the EDPB opinions, the BCRs 
could be approved without changes by the relevant SAs.  

The various opinions are listed below: 
•  Opinion  01/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Danish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Saxo Bank Group Adopted: 22 January 
2021 

•  Opinion  02/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Swedish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Elanders Group Adopted: 22 January 
2021 

•  Opinion  03/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of BDO Adopted: 22 January 2021 

•  Opinion  04/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of BDO Adopted: 22 January 2021 

•  Opinion  08/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Baden-
Wurttemberg  Supervisory  Authority 
the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Luxoft  Group 
Adopted: 16 February 2021 

regarding 

•  Opinion  09/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Baden-
Wurttemberg  Supervisory  Authority 
the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Luxoft  Group 
Adopted: 16 February 2021 

regarding 

•  Opinion  21/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  French 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of the CGI Group Adopted: 1 July 2021 

•  Opinion  22/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  French 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of the CGI Group Adopted: 1 July 2021 

•  Opinion 26/2021 on the draft decision of the Supervisory 
Authority of North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany) regarding 
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  Internet 
Initiative Japan Group Adopted: 2 August 2021 

•  Opinion 27/2021 on the draft decision of the Supervisory 
Authority of North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany) regarding 
the  Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  Internet 
Initiative Japan Group Adopted: 2 August 2021 

•  Opinion  28/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Oregon Tool, Inc (formerly “Blount”) 
Adopted: 2 August 2021 

•  Opinion  06/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Kumon Group Adopted: 16 February 
2021 

•  Opinion  29/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Oregon Tool, Inc (Formerly “Blount”) 
Adopted: 2 August 2021 

•  Opinion  07/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 

•  Opinion  30/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 

3434

EDPB Annual Report 2021The various opinions are listed below: 
•  Opinion 12/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Portugal regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted: 20 July 2021 

•  Opinion 13/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Romania regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body  pursuant  to  Art.  43(3)  GDPR  Adopted:  23  March 
2021 

•  Opinion 19/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Hungary regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted: 1 June 2021 

•  Opinion 25/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Lithuania regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted: 20 July 2021

•  Opinion 35/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Belgium regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted 30 November 
2021 

•  Opinion 36/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Norway regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted 30 November 
2021 

•  Opinion 38/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Latvia regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted 20 November 2021

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  the  COLT  Group  Adopted:  2  August 
2021 

•  Opinion  31/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  the  COLT  Group  Adopted:  2  August 
2021 

•  Opinion  33/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Carrier Adopted: 26 October 2021 

•  Opinion  34/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Otis Adopted: 26 October 2021 

5.2.2. 

Opinions on draft requirements for 
accreditation of a certification body 

Seven  SAs  submitted  their  draft  decisions  on  accreditation 
requirements  for  certification  bodies  under  Art.  43(1)(b) 
GDPR to the EDPB, requesting an opinion under Art. 64(1)(c) 
GDPR.

These  requirements  allow  the  accreditation  of  certification 
bodies  responsible  for  issuing  and  renewing  certification  in 
accordance with Art. 42 GDPR.

These opinions aim to establish a consistent and harmonised 
approach regarding the requirements that SAs and national 
accreditation  bodies  apply  when  accrediting  certification 
bodies  under  the  GDPR.  To  do  so,  the  EDPB  made  several 
recommendations and encouragements to the relevant SAs 
on  the  amendments  to  be  made  to  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements.

The SAs then amended their drafts in accordance with Art. 
64(7)  GDPR,  taking  utmost  account  of  the  opinions  of  the 
EDPB.

3535

EDPB Annual Report 20215.2.3. 

Opinions on SAs’ approval of 
accreditation requirements for code 
of conduct monitoring body 

issued  five  opinions  on  draft  accreditation 
The  EDPB 
requirements  for  code  of  conduct  monitoring  bodies,  as 
requested by the submitting SAs in accordance with Art. 64(1)
(c) GDPR. 

The aim of such EDPB opinions is to ensure consistency and 
the correct application of the requirements among EEA SAs. 
To  do  so,  the  EDPB  made  several  recommendations  and 
encouragements to the various SAs on the amendments to be 
made to the draft accreditation requirements. On this basis, 
the SAs amended their drafts in accordance with Art. 64(7) 
GDPR, taking utmost account of the opinions of the EDPB.  

The various opinions are listed below: 
•  Opinion 10/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Hungary regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR Adopted: 23 
March 2021 

•  Opinion 11/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Norway regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR Adopted: 23 
March 2021 

•  Opinion 23/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory  Authority  of  Czech  Republic  regarding  the 
approval of the requirements for accreditation of a code 
of  conduct  monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR 
Adopted: 20 July 2021 

•  Opinion 24/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Slovakia regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR Adopted: 20 
July 2021 

•  Opinion 37/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Malta regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  Adopted  30 
November 2021 

5.2.4. 

Opinion on SAs’ draft Standard 
Contractual Clauses 

Opinion 18/2021 on the draft Standard Contractual Clauses 
submitted by the LT SA (Art. 28(8) GDPR) 

The  contract  or  other  legal  act  to  govern  the  relationship 
between  the  controller  and  the  processor  in  accordance 
with Art. 28(3) GDPR may be based, in whole or in part, on 
Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs).  

An  SA  may  adopt  SCCs  in  accordance  with  the  consistency 
mechanism. As such, the EDPB reviews draft SCCs submitted 
by SAs to contribute to the consistent application of the GDPR 
throughout the EEA. In March 2021, the Lithuanian SA (LT SA) 
submitted its draft SCCs to the EDPB, requesting an opinion 
under Art. 64(1)(d) GDPR. The EDPB held that the draft SCCs 
needed  some  further  adjustments  and  proposed  several 
recommendations  and  encouragements  on  how  to  amend 
them.  

Adopted: 19 May 2021

3636

EDPB Annual Report 2021The Haut Conseil du Commissariat aux Comptes submitted a 
draft Administrative Arrangement for the transfers of personal 
data between the Haut Conseil du Commissariat aux Comptes 
and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to the 
French SA, which thereafter requested an opinion from the 
EDPB pursuant to Art. 64(2) GDPR.  

The EDPB welcomed the efforts made for this Administrative 
Agreement,  which  included  a  number  of  important  data 
protection safeguards in line with the GDPR as well as with 
the safeguards laid down in EDPB Guidelines 02/2020, and 
underlined some key considerations. 

Adopted: 2 February 2021 

5.2.7. 

Opinion on the legal basis for an SA 
to order ex officio data erasure  

Opinion 39/2021 on whether Art. 58(2)(g) GDPR could serve 
as a legal basis for a supervisory authority to order ex officio 
the erasure of personal data, in a situation where such request 
was not submitted by the data subject. 

The Hungarian SA requested the EDPB to issue an opinion on 
whether Art. 58(2)(g) GDPR could serve as a legal basis for 
an SA to order ex officio the erasure of unlawfully processed 
personal data, in a situation where such a request was not 
submitted by the data subject. The EDPB concluded that Art. 
58(2)(g) was a valid legal basis in such a situation. 

Adopted: 14 December 2021 

5.2.5. 

Opinions on SAs’ approval of codes of conduct 

Two SAs submitted their draft decisions on the approval of 
two codes of conduct that related to processing activities in 
several Member States. The codes of conduct were reviewed 
in  accordance  with  the  procedures  set  up  by  the  EDPB  in 
Guidelines  04/2021  on  codes  of  conduct  and  in  the  EDPB 
Document on the procedure for the development of informal 
“Codes of Conduct sessions”. Those codes of conduct do not 
aim to be used as a tool for international transfer of data (Art. 
46(2)(e) GDPR).  

The EDPB considered that the draft codes complied with the 
GDPR as they fulfilled the requirements imposed by Art. 40 
and Art. 41 GDPR. The EDPB also recalled that, in accordance 
with Art. 40(5) GDPR, the competent SA would have to submit 
the code of conduct to the EDPB in case of amendment or 
extension. 

The various opinions are listed below: 
•  Opinion  16/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory Authority regarding the “EU Data Protection 
Code of Conduct for Cloud Service Providers” submitted 
by Scope Europe Adopted: 19 May 2021 

•  Opinion  17/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  French 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  European  code  of 
conduct  submitted  by  the  Cloud  Infrastructure  Service 
Providers (CISPE) Adopted: 19 May 2021 

5.2.6. 

Opinion on SAs’ authorisation of 
administrative arrangements 

Opinion  05/2021  on  the  draft  Administrative  Arrangement 
for the transfer of personal data between the Haut Conseil 
du Commissariat aux Comptes (H3C) and the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) 

3737

EDPB Annual Report 20215.3. 

BINDING DECISIONS 

5.3.1. 

Binding Decision 01/2021 on the dispute 
arisen on the draft decision of the Irish 
Supervisory Authority regarding WhatsApp 
Ireland under Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR 

See Section 3.5 for a full summary.

In relation to the draft decision regarding WhatsApp Ireland 
(WhatsApp  IE)  of  the  Irish  SA  and  the  subsequent  CSA 
objections, the EDPB adopted a binding decision under Art. 
65(1)(a)  GDPR.  The  decision  concludes  that  the  Irish  SA 
should  amend  its  draft  decision  regarding  infringements  of 
transparency, the period to bring processing operations into 
compliance and the calculation of the fine. 

Adopted: 28 July 2021 

5.3.2. 

Urgent Binding Decision 01/2021 on the 
request under Art. 66(2) GDPR from the 
Hamburg (German) Supervisory Authority 
for ordering the adoption of final measures 
regarding Facebook Ireland Limited 

See Section 3.6 for a full summary.  

Following a request from the Hamburg SA, which had taken 
provisional  measures,  in  accordance  with  Art.  66(1)  GDPR, 
against  Facebook  Ireland  Ltd.  (Facebook  IE)  banning  their 
processing  of  WhatsApp  IE  user  data  in  Germany  for  their 
own purposes, the EDPB adopted an urgent binding decision 
under Art. 66(2) GDPR. 

The decision states that the conditions to prove the existence 
of an infringement and urgency were not met. The decision 
concludes  that  there  is  a  high  likelihood  that  Facebook  IE 
already processes WhatsApp IE user data as a (joint) controller 
for a number of purposes, which could not be demonstrated 

with  certainty  due  to  contradictions,  ambiguities  and 
uncertainties  noted  in  the  evidence  provided.  Due  to  the 
high  likelihood  of  infringements  of  the  GDPR,  the  decision 
requests the Irish SA to carry out, as a matter of priority, a 
statutory investigation to determine whether such processing 
activities are taking place or not, and if it is the case, whether 
they have a proper legal basis under GDPR. 

Adopted: 12 July 2021 

5.4. 

REGISTER FOR DECISIONS TAKEN BY 
SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES AND 
COURTS ON ISSUES HANDLED IN THE 
CONSISTENCY MECHANISM

The EDPB maintains a publicly accessible electronic register 
of decisions taken by SAs and courts on issues handled in the 
consistency mechanism per Art. 70(1)(y) GDPR. This register 
provides  for  accessibility  and  transparency of  the  decisions 
and further promotes the consistent application of the GDPR 
by the European SAs.

All  the  decisions  added  in  2021  are  related  to  decisions 
made  by  the  SAs  following  the  EDPB  consistency  opinions 
or following the 01/2021 EDPB binding decision regarding a 
dispute on an Irish SA draft decision on WhatsApp.

See Section 5.2 on consistency opinions and Section 5.3 on 
binding decisions.

3838

EDPB Annual Report 20215.5. 

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION AND 
DOCUMENTS ADDRESSED TO THE EUIS 
OR NATIONAL AUTHORITIES

the adequacy decision the adequate level of protection is no 
longer ensured, in taking actions by suspending, amending or 
repealing the adequacy decision. 

5.5.3. 

Opinion 20/2021 on Tobacco Traceability System 

On 3 March 2021, the European Commission requested the 
opinion of the EDPB, on the basis of Art. 70(1)(b) GDPR, on 
three  questions  related  to  the  different  roles  of  the  actors 
involved in the tobacco traceability system established under 
Directive 2014/40/EU.
•  First, the European Commission asked the EDPB whether 
it  agrees  with  the  European  Commission’s  assessment 
according to which the Member States and the European 
Commission  act  as  joint  controllers  with  regard  to  the 
processing  of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  the  EU 
tobacco  traceability  system.  The  EDPB  considers  that 
the  European  Commission  has  taken  into  consideration 
the  necessary  elements  to  perform  the  assessment 
of 
joint  controllership.  To  achieve  the  purpose  of 
monitoring compliance with and enforcing the rules, all 
the  means  identified  (i.e.  the  ID  Issuers’  registries  and 
the  repositories)  were  necessary,  since  otherwise  the 
traceability of tobacco products would not be possible and 
thus the purpose of processing would not be achievable.

5.5.1. 

Opinion 14/2021 regarding the European 
Commission Draft Implementing 
Decision pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
2016/679 on the adequate protection of 
personal data in the United Kingdom 

See Section 3.2.2 for a full summary.

When  providing  an  assessment  of  the  draft  implementing 
decision on the adequacy of personal data protection offered 
by the UK under the GDPR, the EDPB finds that, as the UK is 
a former EU Member State, many aspects of the UK’s data 
protection  framework  are  essentially  equivalent  to  those 
in  the  EU.  However,  there  are  several  potential  challenges 
with  essential  equivalence  of  UK  and  EU  data  protection 
law  and  the  European  Commission  should  monitor  future 
developments.

5.5.2. 

Opinion 15/2021 regarding the European 
Commission Draft Implementing Decision 
pursuant to Directive (EU) 2016/680 on 
the adequate protection of personal 
data in the United Kingdom 

See Section 3.2.3 for a full summary.

The EDPB recognises that many aspects of UK’s data protection 
framework  are  essentially  equivalent  to  the  protections 
offered in the EU. Mindful of the possibility that the UK deviates 
in  the  future  from  the  EU  data  protection  framework,  the 
EDPB welcomes the addition of a sunset clause into the draft 
decision. In addition, it further emphasises the importance of 
the European Commission in monitoring the developments of 
UK’s data protection framework and, if after the adoption of 

3939

EDPB Annual Report 2021•  Second,  the  European  Commission  asked  whether  the 
EDPB agrees with the European Commission’s assessment 
according to which the ID Issuers act as processors of the 
Member  States.  In  response,  the  EDPB  holds  that  the 
European Commission has not taken into consideration all 
the necessary elements to perform the assessment on the 
role of the ID Issuers. In this regard, it should be noted 
that,  in  case  of  joint  controllership,  the  mere  fact  that 
the ID Issuers are appointed by the Member State, does 
not necessarily imply that they are only processors of the 
Member State.

•  Third, the European Commission asked whether the EDPB 
agrees  with  the  European  Commission’s  assessment 
according to which the independent third parties hosting 
the  primary  repositories  act  as  sub-processors  of  the 
operator of the secondary repository acting as a processor 
on behalf of the joint controllers (European Commission 
and  the  Member  States).  The  EDPB  states  that  the 
European  Commission  has  taken  into  consideration  the 
necessary  elements  to  perform  the  assessment  on  the 
role of the providers of the primary repository.

The EDPB considerations regarding the European Commission’s 
questions  are  without  prejudice  to  any  specific  further 
assessment pursuant to applicable data protection legislation 
carried out by the controller as part of its obligations or by a 
competent SA in the exercise of its powers. 

Adopted: 18 June 2021

5.5.4. 

Opinion 32/2021 regarding the European 
Commission draft implementing decision 
pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 
on the adequate protection of personal 
data in the Republic of Korea

On  16  June  2021,  the  European  Commission  launched  the 
formal process towards the adoption of its draft implementing 
decision on the adequate protection of personal data in the 
Republic of Korea under the Personal Information Protection 
Act pursuant to Art. 45 GDPR. 

On the same date, the European Commission asked for the 
opinion of the EDPB in accordance with Art. 70(1)(s) GDPR. 
The  EDPB  assessed  the  level  of  protection  afforded  in  the 
Republic of Korea on the basis of the draft decision itself, as 
well as on the documentation made available by the European 
Commission.

The EDPB assessed both the general GDPR aspects of the draft 
decision and the access by public authorities to personal data 
transferred from the EEA for the purposes of law enforcement 
and national security, including the legal remedies available 
to individuals in the EEA. The EDPB also assessed whether the 
safeguards provided under the South Korean legal framework 
are in place and effective. 

The EDPB recognises that key aspects of South Korea’s data 
protection  framework  are  essentially  equivalent  to  the 
protections offered in the EU, and welcomes the notifications 
adopted by the South Korean data protection authority, which 
provide relevant clarifications on some important safeguards 
considered  within  the  adequacy  assessment.  The  EDPB 
identifies  some  aspects  to  be  further  clarified  and  closely 
monitored by the European Commission. 

Adopted: 24 September 2021

4040

EDPB Annual Report 20215.5.5. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 01/2021 on 
standard contractual clauses between 
controllers and processors

5.5.6. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 02/2021 on 
standard contractual clauses for the transfer 
of personal data to third countries

On 12 November 2020, the European Commission requested 
the EDPB and the EDPS to issue a joint opinion on its draft 
implementing decision on SCCs for the transfer of personal 
data to third countries (joint opinion), in compliance with Art. 
42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. These draft SCCs aimed 
at updating and replacing the previous sets of SCCs adopted 
by the European Commission based on Directive 95/46/EC.

The joint opinion comprises (i) a core part detailing general 
comments  and  (ii)  an  annex  with  additional  comments  of 
a more technical nature made directly to the draft SCCs to 
provide some examples of possible amendments. 

Overall, the EDPB and the EDPS note with satisfaction that 
the  draft  SCCs  present  a  reinforced  level  of  protection  for 
data subjects, in particular, the specific provisions intending 
to  address  some  of  the  main  issues  identified  in  the  CJEU 
ruling  in  Case  C-311/18  (Schrems  II)  and  to  reflect  several 
measures identified in EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on 
supplementary measures. 

The EDPB and the EDPS also welcome the fact that this draft 
brings the previous SCCs in line with new GDPR requirements, 
and  better  reflects  the  widespread  use  of  new  and  more 
complex processing operations often involving multiple data 
importers and data exporters, long and complex processing 
chains, as well as evolving business relationships.

On 12 November 2020, the European Commission published 
a  draft  Implementing  Decision  on  Standard  Contractual 
Clauses  (SCCs)  between  controllers  and  processors  for  the 
matters referred to in Art. 28(3) and (4) GDPR and Art. 29(7) of 
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 as well as a draft Annex containing 
the draft SCCs. 

The  European  Commission  requested  a  joint  opinion  of 
the EDPB and the EDPS on the basis of Art. 42(1) and (2) of 
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 on this set of draft SCCs. 

The joint opinion aims at ensuring consistency and a correct 
application  of  Art.  28  GDPR  as  regards  the  presented  draft 
clauses that could serve as SCCs in compliance with Art. 28(7) 
GDPR and Art. 29(7) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. 

The joint opinion comprises (i) a core part detailing general 
comments made by the EDPB and the EDPS and (ii) an annex 
where  comments  of  a  more  technical  nature  were  made 
directly to the Draft Decision and the Draft SCCs to provide 
some  examples  of  possible  amendments  with  the  aim  of 
bringing  more  clarity  to  the  text  and  ensuring  its  practical 
usefulness 
in  day-to-day  operations  of  controllers  and 
processors. The EDPB and the EDPS commented, inter alia, 
on the interplay with the other set of European Commission 
draft  SCCs  on  transfers  (see  Section  5.5.6  below),  the  so-
called  “docking  clause”,  which  allows  additional  entities  to 
accede to the SCCs, and other aspects relating to obligations 
for processors.  Additionally, the EDPB and EDPS suggest that 
the Annexes to the SCCs clarify as much as possible the roles 
and responsibilities of each of the parties with regard to each 
processing activity. 

Adopted: 14 January 2021

4141

EDPB Annual Report 2021The EDPB and EDPS consider that several provisions of the 
draft SCCs could be improved or clarified, such as the scope 
of  the  SCCs,  certain  third-party  beneficiary  rights,  certain 
obligations  regarding  onward  transfers,  aspects  of  the 
assessment of third country laws regarding access to public 
data by public authorities, and the notification to the SA.

Adopted: 14 January 2021

5.5.7. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 03/2021 on the 
Proposal for a regulation of the European 
Parliament and of the Council on European 
data governance (Data Governance Act)

On 25 November 2020, the European Commission requested 
a  joint  opinion  of  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS,  on  the  basis  of 
Article 42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, on the Proposal 
for the Data Governance Act (the Proposal). 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  highlight  that  the  Proposal  is  of 
particular importance for the protection of individuals’ rights 
and freedoms with regard to the processing of personal data. 
The scope of the opinion is limited to aspects of the Proposal 
related to the protection of personal data, which, as observed, 
represents a key - if not the most important - aspect of the 
Proposal. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  point  out  inconsistencies  with  the 
EU  data  protection  legislation  (as  well  as  with  other  EU 
legislation,  such  as  the  Open  Data  Directive)  and  problems 
of the Proposal, which raises a significant number of serious 
concerns, often intertwined, related to the protection of the 
fundamental  right  to  the  protection  of  personal  data.  The 
EDPB and the EDPS provide advice and recommendations to 
the co-legislators to ensure in particular: legal certainty for 
natural persons, economic operators and public authorities; 
due protection of personal data for data subjects in line with 
the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU), the EU Charter 

of Fundamental Rights and the data protection acquis; and 
a  sustainable  digital  environment  including  the  necessary 
“checks and balances”. 

Overall,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that  the  Proposal, 
also having regard to the Impact Assessment accompanying 
it, does not duly take into account the need to ensure and 
guarantee the level of protection of personal data provided 
under EU law. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that this policy 
trend  toward  a  data-driven  economy  framework  without 
sufficient consideration of personal data protection aspects 
raises serious concerns from a fundamental rights viewpoint.

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  furthermore  highlight  that  the 
European  Union  model  relies  on  the  mainstreaming  of  its 
values and fundamental rights within its policy developments, 
and that the GDPR must be considered as a foundation on 
which to build a European data governance model. The EU 
legal framework in the field of personal data protection shall 
be considered as an enabler, rather than an obstacle, to the 
development  of  a  data  economy  that  corresponds  to  the 
Union values and principles.

Adopted: 10 March 2021

5.5.8. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 04/2021 on the 
Proposal for a Regulation of the European 
Parliament and of the Council on a 
framework for the issuance, verification 
and acceptance of interoperable certificates 
on vaccination, testing and recovery to 
facilitate free movement during the COVID 
19 pandemic (Digital Green Certificate)

The EDPB and the EDPS note that the Proposal for a Regulation 
concerning  the  Digital  Green  Certificate  aims  at  facilitating 
the  exercise  of  the  right  to  free  movement  within  the  EU 
during  the  COVID-19  pandemic  by  establishing  a  common 
framework, thus requiring all EU Member States to use the 

4242

EDPB Annual Report 2021EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 05/2021 on 
the proposal for a Regulation of the 
European Parliament and of the Council 
laying down harmonised rules on artificial 
intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act)

See Section 3.4 for a full summary.

The  European  Commission  presented  its  Proposal  for  a 
Regulation 
laying  down  harmonised  rules  on  artificial 
intelligence  (Artificial  Intelligence  Act)  on  21  April  2021. 
In their joint opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS welcome the 
concern  of  the  legislator  in  addressing  the  use  of  artificial 
intelligence (AI) within the EU and stress the important data 
protection  implications  of  the  future  regulation.  Relevant 
issues  include  the  following:  the  Proposal’s  scope,  a  risk-
based approach, prohibited uses of AI, high-risk AI systems, 
governance and the European AI Board, and its interaction 
with the data protection framework.

Adopted: 18 June 2021

5.5.10. 

Statement 02/2021 on new draft provisions 
of the Second Additional Protocol to 
the Council of Europe Convention on 
Cybercrime (Budapest Convention)

Following the previous EDPB contribution to the draft Second 
Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on 
Cybercrime  (Budapest  Convention),  the  EDPB  adopted  a 
statement on the new draft provisions to provide its expertise 
with a view to ensuring that data protection matters are duly 
considered in the overall drafting process of the Additional 
Protocol.

Digital Green Certificate framework and issue certificates for 
that purpose.

5.5.9. 

The EDPB and the EDPS consider it essential to ensure that 
the Proposal is consistent and does not conflict in any manner 
with  the  application  of  the  GDPR.  Compliance  with  the 
principles of necessity and proportionality by the measures 
introduced  with  the  Proposal  should  be  carefully  analysed. 
In this regard, the EDPB and EDPS underline the lack of an 
impact assessment accompanying the Proposal, which would 
provide  substantiation  of  the  impact  of  the  measures  and 
the effectiveness of already existing, less intrusive measures. 
They also underline that the Proposal must not lead to the 
creation of any sort of personal data central database at EU 
level  under  the  pretext  of  the  establishment  of  the  Digital 
Green Certificate framework. Furthermore, the joint opinion 
includes specific comments about the categories of personal 
data, the adoption of adequate technical and organisational 
privacy and security measures, the identification of controllers 
and  processors,  the  transparency  and  data  subject’s  rights, 
the data storage and the international data transfers.

The  Proposed  Regulation  did  not  address  the  use  of  the 
Digital Green Certificate framework at national level for other 
reasons  than  facilitating  the  free  movement  between  EU 
Member States. In this regard, the Proposal may not be used 
as a legal basis for such further use. The EDPB and the EDPS 
also remark that any possible further use of the framework, 
the Digital Green Certificate and personal data related to it 
at the Member States level must respect Art. 7 and Art. 8 of 
the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and must comply with 
the GDPR, including Art. 6(4) GDPR. This implies the need for 
a proper legal  basis  in  Member  State  law,  complying  with  
the  principles  of  effectiveness,  necessity, proportionality 
and including strong and specific safeguards.

Adopted: 31 March 2021

4343

EDPB Annual Report 2021The statement focuses on assessing draft provisions that have 
not been subject to previous stakeholder consultations, such 
as joint investigations and their respective teams, expedited 
disclosure  of  stored  computer  data  in  an  emergency,  and 
request for domain name registration information.

The  EDPB  notes  that  the  new  draft  provisions  are  likely  to 
affect the conditions for access to personal data in the EU for 
law enforcement purposes and, consequently, it calls on the 
relevant EU and national institutions to carefully scrutinise the 
ongoing negotiations. The goal of such action is to guarantee 
full consistency of the proposed Second Additional Protocol 
with the EU acquis in the field of personal data protection.

Adopted: 2 February 2021

5.5.11. 

Statement 03/2021 on ePrivacy Regulation

The  EDPB  adopted  a  statement  on  the  draft  ePrivacy 
Regulation  where 
it  welcomes  the  agreement  on  the 
negotiation mandate by the Council of the EU as a positive step 
in the finalisation of the ePrivacy Regulation. The statement 
expresses  concerns  about  proposed  rules  on  the  retention 
of  electronic  communication  data  for  the  purposes  of  law 
enforcement  and  safeguarding  national  security.  It  further 
recalls the necessity of a specific EU regulation protecting the 
confidentiality of electronic communications. The upcoming 
Regulation must enforce the consent requirement for cookies 
and similar technologies, and enable technical tools allowing 
consent to be easily obtained.

The EDPB reiterates that competent national SAs responsible 
for enforcing the GDPR should be entrusted with the oversight 
of the privacy provisions of the future ePrivacy Regulation in 
order to ensure harmonised interpretation and enforcement 
of the ePrivacy Regulation across the EU and to guarantee a 
level playing field in the Digital Single Market. The EDPB also 
underlines the practical difficulties that will be faced in case 

national competent authorities who are not members of the 
EDPB would have to interact with the EDPB.

Adopted: 9 March 2021

5.5.12. 

Statement 04/2021 on international 
agreements including transfers

The EDPB calls upon the EU Member States to assess and, 
where  necessary,  review  their  international  agreements 
that  involve  international  transfers  of  personal  data  and 
were  concluded  before  24  May  2016  (for  those  relevant 
to  the  GDPR)  and  6  May  2016  (for  those  relevant  to  the 
Law  Enforcement  Directive  (LED)).  These  actions  should  be 
performed to ensure alignment, where needed, with EU law, 
in particular the GDPR and the LED, CJEU case law on data 
protection, and relevant EDPB guidance.

Adopted: 13 April 2021

5.5.13. 

EDPB contribution to the 6th round 
of consultations on the draft Second 
Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe 
Budapest Convention on Cybercrime

The EDPB submitted comments on the draft Second Additional 
Protocol  to  the  Council  of  Europe  Cybercrime  Convention 
Committee (T-CY) during its sixth consultation round.

From  an  EU  data  protection  law  point  of  view,  the  draft 
Protocol, as per its level of norm, provisions and legal effect, 
would be applicable to the disclosure and transfer of personal 
data from the EU to third countries. In relation to the draft 
Art.  13  of  the  Protocol  (“Condition  and  safeguards”),  the 
EDPB recommends that the application and implementation 
of  the  principle  of  proportionality  be  included  in  the  text. 
The EDPB could not provide a full assessment on the draft 
text  of  Art.  14  (“protection  of  personal  data”)  due  to  the 
non-publication of the explanatory report for this provision. 

4444

EDPB Annual Report 2021The EDPB recommends clarifying the application of some of 
the principles and procedures that Art. 14 contains, such as 
its scope, purpose and use of personal data received by the 
requesting party, the processing of sensitive data, retention 
periods, automated decisions, maintaining of records, onward 
sharing, onward transfer, transparency and notice, rights of 
data subjects, oversight and suspension.

The  EDPB  calls  on  the  T-CY  members  and  protocol  drafters 
to  amend  the  draft  provisions  presented  for  consultation 
to ensure the finalised protocol is fully compatible with EU 
primary  and  secondary  law,  guaranteeing  that  the  level  of 
protection of personal data as per EU law is not undermined. 

Adopted: 4 May 2021

5.5.14. 

Statement 05/2021 on the Data Governance 
Act in light of the legislative developments

In pursuit of reinforcing its main remarks from the EDPB-EDPS 
Joint Opinion on the Data Governance Act (DGA) (see Section 
5.5.7 for a full summary), the EDPB adopted this statement 
on  the DGA  concerning  the  developments  in  the  legislative 
process.

The  EDPB  states  that  it  is  important  to  have  robust  data 
protection safeguards, as a lack of safeguards creates a risk 
that the trust in the digital economy would not be sustainable. 
There is a need to ensure consistency between the DGA and 
the EU data protection acquis. Certain aspects are particularly 
important,  such  as  the  provision  in  the  DGA  of  a  clear 
interplay between the DGA and the GDPR, the alignment of 
the definitions and terminology of the DGA with the ones of 
the GDPR, and the clarification of the appropriate legal basis 
regarding the processing of personal data.

Adopted: 19 May 2021

4545

5.5.15. 

EDPB contribution to the 6th round 
of consultations on the draft Second 
Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe 
Budapest Convention on Cybercrime

On 8 July 2020, the European Commission submitted to the 
EDPB a request focusing on health research and provided a 
list of concrete questions related to data protection for health 
related research.

In its replies, the EDPB states that ethics standards cannot be 
interpreted in such a way that only explicit consent of data 
subjects can be used to legitimise the processing of health 
data for scientific research purposes. Art. 6 and Art. 9 GDPR 
contain  other  options  for  a  legal  basis  and  an  exemption, 
which  can  be  relied  on  for  processing  of  health  data  for 
scientific research purposes. In its replies the EDPB provides 
clarifications  on  data  protection  related  concepts,  such  as 
the processing of previously collected health data, the notion 
of broad consent, transparency, data safeguards, large scale 
processing and international cooperation.

The  EDPB  response  constitutes  only  a  preliminary  position 
on  the  topic.  In  its  forthcoming  guidelines  on  processing 
personal data for scientific research purposes, the EDPB will 
elaborate further on these issues while aiming at providing a 
more comprehensive interpretation of the various provisions 
in the GDPR that are relevant for the processing of personal 
data for scientific research purposes.

Adopted: 2 February 2021

5.6. 

OTHER GUIDANCE AND INFORMATION NOTES

5.6.1. 

Pre-GDPR BCRs overview list

The  EDPB  published  an  updated  list  of  pre-GDPR  BCRs  on 
its website. This list provides information on BCRs that were 

EDPB Annual Report 2021submitted  to  SAs  in  accordance  with  the  rules  applicable 
under  Directive  95/46  and  for  which  the  procedure  for 
approval ended prior to 25 May 2018, when the GDPR started 
applying. The list notes which SA took charge of coordinating 
the informal EU cooperation procedure. Inclusion in the list 
does not imply endorsement by the EDPB of these BCRs.

Adopted: 26 January 2021

5.6.2. 

Statement on the withdrawal of the 
United Kingdom from the European 
Union - update 13/01/2021

The second version of the Statement, adopted on 13 January 
2021 (the first having been adopted on 15 December 2020), 
was updated taking into consideration that on 15 December 
2020, an agreement on future relations was reached between 
the EU and the UK. The EDPB reminds all stakeholders that the 
agreement provides that, for a specified period and upon the 
condition that the UK’s current data protection regime stays 
in place, all transfers of personal data between stakeholders 
subject to the GDPR and UK entities will not be considered 
as  transfers  to  a  third  country  subject  to  the  provisions  of 
Chapter V GDPR. This interim provision could be applied for 
a maximum period of six months (i.e. until 30 June 2021 at 
the latest). The EDPB specifies that, as of 1 January 2021, the 
One-Stop-Shop (OSS) mechanism is no longer applicable to 
the  UK, so  the  UK  Information  Commissioner’s  Office  is  no 
longer part of it.

The EDPB emphasises that the decision to benefit from the 
unified  dialogue  enabled  by  the  OSS  mechanism  in  cross-
border processing cases is up to the individual controllers and 
processors, who to that end could decide whether to set up 
a new main establishment in the EEA under the terms of Art. 
4(16) GDPR. The EDPB recalls that controllers and processors 
not  established  in  the  EEA,  but  whose  processing  activities 
are  subject  to  the  application  of  the  GDPR  under  Art.  3(2) 

GDPR, are required to designate a representative in the EU in 
accordance with Art. 27 GDPR.

Adopted: 13 January 2021

5.6.3. 

Information note on data transfers under 
the GDPR to the United Kingdom after the 
transition period - update 13/01/2021

By the time of the second version of the note, adopted on 
13 January 2021, an agreement had been reached between 
the  EU  and  the  UK  on  24  December  2020.  The  agreement 
provided that for a maximum period of six months from its 
entry into force – i.e. until 30 June 2021 at the latest - and 
upon  the  condition  that  the  UK’s  current  data  protection 
regime  stays  in  place,  all  flows  of  personal  data  between 
stakeholders subject to the GDPR and UK organisations would 
not be considered as international transfers.

Until 30 June 2021, at the latest, organisations subject to the 
GDPR would be able to carry on transferring personal data 
to UK organisations without the need to either put in place a 
transfer tool under Art. 46 GDPR or rely on an Art. 49 GDPR 
derogation. If no adequacy decision applicable to the UK as 
per Art. 45 GDPR would be adopted by 30 June 2021 at the 
latest,  all  transfers  of  personal  data  between  stakeholders 
subject to the GDPR and UK entities would then constitute a 
transfer of personal data to a third country.

Adopted: 13 January 2021

5.7. 

PLENARY MEETINGS AND SUBGROUPS

In the period between 1 January and 31 December 2021, the 
EDPB  held  15  plenary  meetings.  The  agendas  and  minutes 
of  these  meetings  are  published  on  the  EDPB  website. 
The  outcome  of  the  plenary  meetings  consists  of  adopted 
guidelines, opinions and other documents such as statements 

4646

EDPB Annual Report 2021or  information  notes  to  advise  the  European  Commission, 
national  SAs  and  other  stakeholders  on  data  protection 
matters, with a primary focus on the GDPR. Additionally, there 
were 200 expert subgroup meetings. In total, 389 meetings 
were  held,  including  plenary  meetings,  expert  subgroup 
meetings and drafting team meetings.

The  different  expert  subgroups  focus  on  specific  areas  of 
data protection and assist the EDPB in performing its tasks. 
Chapter 8 outlines the list of the expert subgroups and their 
respective mandates.

5.8. 

STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION

5.8.1. 

Stakeholder events

The EDPB organises stakeholder events to gather input and 
views on specific issues in the interest of developing future 
guidance.  In  2021,  the  EDPB  organised  such  an  event  on 
processing personal data for scientific research purposes on 30 
April. The event took place online and secured approximately 
60 participants that represented a combination of academia, 
NGOs, commercial organisations and SAs. They shared their 
experience concerning the use of personal data for scientific 
research purposes and emphasised areas that needed further 
clarifying  or  explaining.  Alongside  this  provided  input,  the 
EDPB gathered further valuable insights on the topic from a 
questionnaire sent to both parties who attended and could 
not  attend  prior  to  the  event.  The  EDPB  will  use  all  the 
provided stakeholder input in the context of drafting future 
guidance on data processing for scientific research purposes.

5.8.2. 

Public consultation on draft guidance

Following the preliminary adoption of guidelines, the EDPB 
organises  public  consultations  to  give  stakeholders  and 
citizens  the  opportunity  to  provide  additional  input.  The 
EDPB Members and the EDPB Secretariat in charge of drafting 
the guidelines consider this input in the subsequent drafting 
process. The guidelines are then adopted in their final version.  

To further enhance transparency, the EDPB publishes on its 
website  stakeholders’  contributions  to  public  consultations. 
In 2021, the EDPB launched several such consultations:
• 

In  January,  the  EDPB  opened  public  consultations  on 
Guidelines  01/2021  on  Examples  regarding  Data  Breach 
Notification.  There  were  32  contributions  made  to  the 
guidelines,  mostly  submitted  by  business  organisations 
and associations or DPO entities.

• 

In March, Guidelines 02/2021 on Virtual Voice Assistants 
were  open  for  public  consultations.  They  attained 
eighteen  contributions  from  a  mix  of  different  entities, 
such as academic and research institutions and business 
associations.

•  Later  in  April,  the  EDPB  opened  public  consultations 
on  both  Guidance  on  certification  criteria  assessment 
(Addendum  to  Guidelines  1/2018  on  certification  and 
identifying  certification  criteria  in  accordance  with  Arts. 
42 and 43 of the Regulation) and Guidelines 03/2021 on 
the  application  of  Art.  65(1)(a)  GDPR.  The  Guidance  on 
certification  criteria  assessment  received  contributions 
from six entities, mainly comprising individuals, academia 
and  public  authorities.  The  Guidelines  03/2021  on 
the  application  of  Art.  65(1)(a)  GDPR  received  three 
contributions from a variety of entities.

•  The  EDPB  published  Guidelines  04/2021  on  codes  of 
conduct  as  tools  for  transfers  for  consultation  in  July. 
There were ten contributions to these guidelines.

4747

EDPB Annual Report 2021• 

In  November,  the  EDPB  launched  public  consultations 
on  Guidelines  05/2021  on  the  Interplay  between  the 
application of Art. 3 and the provisions on international 
transfers  as  per  Chapter  V  of  the  GDPR,  which  were 
accepting contributions until 31 January 2022.

5.8.3. 

Survey on practical application 
of adopted guidance

For the fourth year in a row, the EDPB conducted a survey 
as part of the annual review of the EDPB’s activities under 
Art.  71(2)  GDPR.    Questions  centred  on  the  EDPB’s  work 
and  output  in  2021,  with  a  focus  on  its  guidelines  and 
recommendations,  all  with  a  view  to  understanding  the 
extent to which stakeholders find the EDPB’s guidance helpful 
in interpreting the GDPR’s provisions, and in order to identify 
future paths to better support organisations as they interact 
with the EU data protection framework.

5.8.3.1.  Participants and methodology

included 

The  survey  compiles  the  views  of  various  entities  with 
different interests and concerns related to EU data protection 
law.  Stakeholders  consulted 
representatives 
from  an  EU  DPO  organisation,  representing  a  network  of 
national associations of data protection and privacy officers. 
Accordingly, a representative and comprehensive view of the 
sector  was  obtained.  Stakeholders  also  included  academia 
and NGOs in the field of data protection and privacy rights. 
This  allowed  for  a  broad  representation  of  actors  from 
different  sectors.  The  EDPB  used  semi-structured,  one-on-
one virtual interviews to consult participants. The questions 
were based on a standardised questionnaire. From this, data 
was synthesised and commonalities identified.

5.8.3.2. 

Findings

The surveyed stakeholders indicated that the EDPB guidelines 
and  recommendations  are  generally  coherent  and  helpful 
in  interpreting  ambiguous  data  protection  rules  and  better 
understanding  data  protection  rights  and  duties.  The 
structure of the documents also provides for easy navigation 
through the content, with Guidelines 01/2021 on data breach 
notifications receiving praise in this respect.

stakeholders 

Most 
recommendations on a near daily basis for work purposes. 

guidelines 

consulted 

the 

and 

Stakeholders  indicated  the  need  for  quicker  adoption  of 
new  guidelines  and  recommendations.  In  addition,  they 
suggested  that  shorter  documents  with  comprehensive 
executive summaries would be useful. When certain guidance 
documents become very long, a suggestion was made for the 
EDPB  to  consider  issuing  a  complementary,  shorter  version 
of the final document. With respect to content, stakeholders 
saw high practical value in the examples outlined in the EDPB 
guidelines and hoped to see this practice continue.

The  surveyed  stakeholders  actively  participated 
in  the 
consultative processes of the EDPB throughout 2021. Some 
participants  suggested  they  would  appreciate  a  clearer 
outline  of  how  their  proposed  input  was  incorporated  into 
guidelines adopted after consultation. 

Overall,  due  to  the  improved  website  and  consultation 
processes,  the  participants  found  significant  improvement 
in  the  communication  and  transparency  of  the  EDPB. 
Stakeholders  stated  that 
light  of  consistency  and 
compliance, they followed and acted in accordance with the 
EDPB’s guidance.

in 

4848

EDPB Annual Report 2021several conferences and forums. The EDPB Deputy Chair Aleid 
Wolfsen participated in three remote speaking engagements. 
His  engagement  comprised  speeches,  presentations  and 
panel discussions at different events. 

5.9.2. 

Participation of EDPB Staff in conferences 
and speaking engagements

EDPB  staff  represented  the  EDPB  at  33  events,  both  in-
person  and  remotely.  The  events  were  hosted  by,  amongst 
others,  universities,  trade  associations  and  EU  institutions. 
Their  engagement  at  these  events  consisted  of  discussing 
achievements, challenges and potential solutions to current 
data  protection  issues,  but  also  disseminating  educational 
knowledge of data protection and privacy for tailored made 
courses at different universities.

The EDPB highly appreciates the stakeholders’ participation 
and  useful  contribution  to  its  work.  Feedback  on  the 
guidance’s  operational  value  and  alignment  with  other  EU 
laws was equally appreciated as it gave actionable insights into 
stakeholder needs. The provided feedback on communication 
and  transparency  is  also  beneficial  for  future  stakeholder 
engagement and initiating plans of action. Overall, the EDPB 
plans to continue upholding and building upon the consistency 
of its work in the future.

5.9. 

EXTERNAL REPRESENTATION OF THE BOARD 

Public  awareness  and  cooperation  are  vital  to  upholding 
data protection rights in the EEA and beyond, which is why 
the  EDPB  values  stakeholder  and  citizen  engagement.  The 
EDPB  Secretariat  supports  the  Chair  and  Deputy  Chairs  in 
engagements with other EU institutions or bodies, and when 
they represent the EDPB at conferences and multi-stakeholder 
platforms. Staff members from the EDPB Secretariat also take 
part in several events to present the activities of the EDPB.

5.9.1. 

Participation of Chair and Deputy Chairs in 
conferences and speaking engagements

In  2021,  the  Chair  of  the  EDPB,  Andrea  Jelinek,  had  over 
nineteen speaking engagements, which for the most part were 
remote. The speaking engagements included press briefings, 
presentations and panel discussions for a range of institutes, 
academic forums and policy agencies. The Chair also met with 
European  Commissioners  and  representatives  from,  among 
others, UNESCO and the Council of the EU Working Party on 
Information Exchange and Data Protection. In addition, she 
participated  in  several  conferences  and  summits  on  data 
protection and privacy matters.

The EDPB Deputy Chair Ventsislav Karadjov took part in nine 
speaking  engagements,  most  of  which  were  remote.  They 
consisted of speeches, presentations and panel discussions at 

4949

EDPB Annual Report 20216

SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY - ACTIVITIES IN 2021

Under the GDPR, national Supervisory Authorities (SAs) have a 
duty to cooperate to ensure the consistent application of data 
protection law. In cases that have a cross-border component, 
the SAs of the European Economic Area (EEA), i.e. the 27 EU 
Member States plus Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, have 
a range of tools at their disposal to facilitate harmonisation.

These tools are:
•  Mutual assistance;

• 

Joint operations;

•  The One-Stop-Shop cooperation mechanism.

6.1. 

CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION

The GDPR requires the EEA SAs to cooperate closely to ensure 
the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  and  protection  of 
individuals’ data protection rights across the EEA.

One of their tasks is to coordinate decision-making in cross-
border data processing cases.

6.1.1. 

Preliminary procedure to identify the Lead 
and Concerned Supervisory Authorities

Before starting a One-Stop-Shop (OSS) procedure for a cross-
border case, it is necessary to identify the Lead Supervisory 
Authority  (LSA)  and  the  other  Concerned  Supervisory 
Authorities (CSAs). The LSA leads the investigation and drafts 

50

EDPB Annual Report 2021the  decision,  while  the  CSAs  have  the  opportunity  to  raise 
objections.

The  LSA  is  identified  as  the  SA  of  the  EEA  country  where 
the data controller  or processor under  investigation  has  its 
main establishment. To identify a controller’s or processor’s 
main establishment, one key criterion is the place of central 
administration. Further information on this subject is available 
in  the  Article 29 Working  Party  Guidelines  for  identifying  a 
controller’s or processor’s LSA, endorsed by the EDPB at its 
first plenary meeting on 25 May 2018.

The EDPB created workflows in the Internal Market Information 
System  (IMI)  to  enable  SAs  to  identify  their  respective 
roles.  This  IT  platform  is  used  to  support  cooperation  and 
consistency procedures under the GDPR. The main purpose 
of this procedure is to define roles at an early stage.

In case of conflicting views regarding which SA should act as 
LSA, the EDPB acts as a dispute resolution body and issues 
a  binding  decision.  From  1  January  2021  to  31  December 
2021, there were 553 instances in which LSAs and CSAs were 
identified.

6.1.2. 

Database regarding cases with a 
cross-border component

A case with a cross-border component is registered in a central 
database via the IMI and may occur in several situations:
•  When the data controller or processor has an establishment 

in more than one Member State;

•  When  the  data  processing  activity  substantially  affects 

individuals in more than one Member State; and/or

•  When  SAs  are  simply  exchanging 

information, 

i.e. 

providing each other with mutual assistance.

5151

Between 1 January and 31 December 2021, there were 506 
entries in the database out of which 375 originated from a 
complaint, while 131 had other origins, such as investigations, 
legal obligations and/or media reports.

Please note that:

-  References  to  case  register  entries  in  these  statistics  do 
not have a 1-to-1 correlation to the number of cross-border 
complaints handled per country as multiple complaints may 
be  bundled  in  one  case  register  entry  which  therefore  can 
relate to multiple cross-border cases;

-  Depending  on  the  Member  State  legislation,  supervisory 
authorities may have handled complaints outside of the Art 
60 procedure in accordance with their national law.

6.1.3. 

One-Stop-Shop mechanism and decisions

The OSS mechanism demands cooperation between the LSA 
and  the  CSAs.  The  LSA  leads  the  investigation  and  plays  a 
key role in the process of reaching consensus between the 
CSAs, in addition to working towards reaching a coordinated 
decision about the data controller or processor.

The  LSA  must  first  investigate  the  case  while  taking  into 
account national procedural rules, ensuring that the affected 
individuals  can  exercise  their  rights.  The  LSA  can  gather 
information  from  another  CSA  via  mutual  assistance  or  by 
conducting a joint investigation. The IMI system also gives the 
LSA and other CSAs at any point the opportunity to informally 
communicate  with  each  other  to  collect  and  exchange 
relevant information.

Once the LSA has completed its investigation, it prepares a 
draft decision, which it then communicates to the CSAs. They 
have the right to object. An objection either leads to a revised 
draft decision or, if no route to consensus can be found, the 
EDPB acts as a dispute resolution body and issues a binding 

EDPB Annual Report 2021decision. The LSA must adopt its final decision on the basis of 
the EDPB’s decision. If the CSAs do not object to either the 
initial draft or the revised decision, they are deemed to agree 
with the draft decision.

Between 1 January 2021 and 31 December 2021, there were 
209 draft decisions, which resulted in 141 final decisions.

The IMI offers different procedures that can be followed when 
handling OSS cases:
• 

Informal consultation procedures;

•  Draft decisions or revised decisions submitted by the LSA 

to the CSAs; and/or

•  Final OSS decisions submitted to the CSAs and the EDPB.
The  EDPB  maintains  a  public  register  of  the  final  decisions 
taken  by  LSAs  and  complaint  receiving  SAs  pursuant  to 
the OSS as a valuable resource to showcase how SAs work 
together to practically enforce the GDPR. The register offers 
an exceptional opportunity to read final decisions taken by, 
and involving, different SAs in a cross-border context. These 
decisions often contain important guidance on how to comply 
with  the  GDPR  in  practice.  The  register  contains  both  final 
decisions and summaries prepared by the EDPB Secretariat 
and duly approved by SAs. The relevant SAs have validated the 
information in the register in accordance with the conditions 
provided by their national legislation.

This  section  contains  a  selection  of  examples  of  Art.  60 
GDPR  final  decisions  taken  from  the  EDPB’s  public  register. 
The first section contains some cases where SAs handed out 
administrative fines in accordance with Art. 83 GDPR when 
data controllers did not comply with the GDPR. The second 
section  provides  summaries  of  some  other  final  decisions 
in  cases  where  SAs  did  not  issue  administrative  fines,  but 
provided guidance on the interpretation of specific provisions 
of the GDPR.

The  Annual  Report  references  certain  final  decisions  from 
2021, but also includes one from late 2020.

6.1.3.1. 

Selection of cases involving administrative fines

Consistent enforcement of data protection rules is central to 
a harmonised data protection regime. Once an infringement 
of the GDPR has been established based on the assessment 
of  the  facts  of  the  case,  the  competent  SA  must  identify 
the  most  appropriate  corrective  measure  to  address  the 
infringement.  Administrative  fines  are  one  of  the  most 
powerful enforcement measures the SAs can adopt, together 
with the other measures in Art. 58 GDPR.

LSA: Dutch SA

Personal data breach / Notification of a personal data breach 
to the supervisory authority / Administrative fines

Year of decision: 2020³

OSS register number: EDPBI:NL:OSS:D:2020:173

On  7  February  2019,  the  service  provider  of  an  online 
platform notified the LSA of a personal data breach that it had 
discovered on 10 January 2019. The controller indicated in its 
notification that an unknown third party had gained access to 
personal data in the controller’s reservation system which are 
used by the platform’s partners to manage the reservations. 
As a result, the personal data of various data subjects who 
had  made  reservations  via  the  controller’s  platform  were 
compromised. The LSA then commenced an investigation on 
the controller’s compliance with Art. 33(1) GDPR.

During its investigations, the LSA found that the controller had 
been informed on 8 January 2019 by one of its partners that, 
following a possible personal data breach in the reservation 
system,  an  unknown  third  party  had  contacted  customers 
and pretended to be affiliated with the controller, once as an 

5252

EDPB Annual Report 2021employee of the controller and other times as an employee 
of one of the partner organisations on the platform. The LSA 
noted that the controller received two similar complaints from 
the same provider on 13 January 2019 and 20 January 2019; 
and that on 20 January 2019, a second partner reported the 
same type of incident. The LSA noted that, despite the reports 
about these several incidents, the controller’s entity in charge 
of the receipt of these incidents did not notify the controller's 
security team until 31 January 2019. After having conducted 
investigations,  the  controller’s  security  team  informed  the 
controller’s privacy team on 4 February 2019.

In  view  of  the  circumstances  in  which  the  incidents  were 
reported to the controller by the partners, the LSA found that 
the controller was deemed to have knowledge of the personal 
data breach at least on 13 January 2019, as the information 
given by the partner indicated with a reasonable degree of 
certainty  that  personal  data  had  been  compromised.  As  a 
result, the LSA pointed out that the controller should have 
notified the LSA of the personal data breach by 16 January 
2019 at the latest. It is an established fact that the controller 
only made this notification on 7 February 2019, i.e. 22 days 
too  late.  The  same  applies  if  20  January  2019  should  be 
adopted as the starting date, then the notification was done 
15 days too late compared to the deadline of 72-hour set out 
by Art. 33(1) GDPR.

The LSA stressed that the controller’s argument that the delay 
in notifying the data breach was due to a failure by a single 
part of the controller’s organisation to report the incident to 
the security team, as per the controller’s internal procedure, 
is without effect. The LSA also stressed that, by choosing to 
carry out an in-depth investigation instead of notification in 
phases, the controller did not comply with the rules laid down 
in Art. 33(3) GDPR.

5353

The  controller  had  informed  and  advised  the  data  subjects 
about  taking  measures  to  reduce  the  potential  damage. 
The controller had declared itself willing to compensate any 
damages (suffered or to be suffered) by the data subjects. The 
controller  also  immediately  informed  its  affected  partners 
and placed warnings on the website.

The LSA imposed an administrative fine of EUR 475,000 on 
the controller for the infringement of Art. 33(1) GDPR.

³. Decision adopted in late 2020, so included in 2021 Annual 
Report.

LSA: Dutch SA

Personal data breach / Data security / Administrative fines

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: not available yet

On 24 October 2019, the LSA received a notification from a 
controller  regarding  a  personal  data  breach  indicating  that 
a  malicious  third  party  had  gained  unauthorised  access  to 
the controller’s systems. The LSA also received three follow-
up  notifications.  The  LSA  was  informed  that  the  controller 
had  discovered  the  breach  on  21  October  2019  and  had 
immediately  engaged  an  external  service  provider  to  block 
the attacker and to prepare a forensic report analysing the 
affected systems and the personal data involved. According to 
the forensic analysis, the attacker had focussed on exploratory 
activities  but  had  also  copied  network  documentation, 
business and other documents, as well as six mailboxes to a 
remote location. The mailboxes had been found to contain files 
with personal data. On 25 February 2020, 81,000 data subjects 
(employees and customers of the controller) were notified of 
the breach. The personal data affected included first name, 
last name, date of birth, flight information, booking number, 
luggage information, as well as wheelchair requirements. For 

EDPB Annual Report 2021(potential)  employees,  more  data  were  affected,  including, 
resumes and business contact information.

The  LSA  concluded  that,  at  the  time  of  the  breach,  the 
controller  was  processing  personal  data  of  over  25  million 
individuals. Of these, personal data of up to 83,000 individuals 
and health data of 367 individuals were leaked. According to 
the controller, 90% of the affected data subjects are Dutch, 
based on the point of sale. The controller could not provide 
a  breakdown  of  other  countries  of  origin  but  considering 
the  amount  of  information,  the  LSA  decided  that  10%  still 
amounts  to  data  subjects  from  other  EU  countries  being 
substantially affected.

The LSA investigated whether the technical measures taken 
by the controller with regard to access to personal data were 
appropriate as required by Art. 5(1)(f) GDPR in conjunction 
with Art. 32 GDPR. It was determined that the attacker had 
used a “password spray” or “credential stuffing” attack, i.e. 
applied,  frequently  used  or  previously  leaked  passwords. 
The cause of the breach was a simple and frequently used 
password that was easy to guess by automated means. The 
password  strength  and  level  were  not  in  accordance  with 
the authentication policy of the controller. Furthermore, the 
periodic  security  checks  conducted  by  the  controller  had 
shown  that  the  controller’s  password  policy  had  not  been 
adhered  to.  In  addition,  the  LSA  considered  that  dividing 
the  controller’s  network  into  several  segments  could  have 
prevented  the  attacker  from  gaining  further  access  to  the 
controller’s  systems  and  that  users’  privileges  could  have 
been  better  adjusted.  Given  the  state  of  the  art  and  the 
implementation costs, the LSA considered that the technical 
measures implemented at the time of the breach were not 
appropriate within the meaning of Art. 32 GDPR.

The LSA imposed on the controller an administrative fine of 
EUR 400,000 for the infringement of Art. 32(1) and (2) GDPR. 

LSA: Spanish SA

Personal  data  breach  /  Hacker-attack  /  Data  security  / 
Administrative fines

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:ES:OSS:D:2021:239

The  controller,  a  company  owning  a  web  platform,  was  hit 
by  several  cyber-attacks  from  an  unidentified  third  party 
who accessed its database hosted on the platform of a cloud 
service provider. On 29 June 2018, the controller notified the 
LSA of a first cyber-attack, which occurred on 27 June 2018 
and resulted in the unauthorised access to the personal data 
of  232,766  customers  residing  in  more  than  170  countries 
(comprising almost all EU member states). On 27 July 2018, 
the controller notified the LSA of a second data breach, which 
occurred on 25 July 2018, and resulted in the unauthorised 
access of the usernames and email addresses of 2,892,786 
account  holders.  In  response  to  these  data  breaches,  the 
controller implemented several technical and organisational 
corrective measures.

Following  the  notification  of  the  two  data  breaches,  the 
LSA  initiated  investigations  into  a  possible  breach  of  Arts. 
32, 33 and 34 GDPR. As a result of these investigations, the 
LSA  found  that  the  controller  failed  to  implement  up-to-
date  technical  and  organisational  security  measures,  taking 
into  account  the  degree  of  risk  of  the  processing  activities 
carried  out.  Considering  that  these  security  deficiencies 
were to a large extent responsible for the occurrence of the 
above-mentioned incidents, the LSA ruled that the company 
infringed Art. 32(1) GDPR. Nonetheless, the LSA pointed out 
that the company notified the breaches in accordance with its 
obligation under Art. 33 GDPR. Finally, in light of the evidence 
at hand, the LSA concluded that there was no high risk to the

5454

EDPB Annual Report 2021rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons  that  would  require 
informing data subjects in accordance with Art. 34 GDPR.

The LSA imposed an administrative fine of EUR 100,000 on 
the controller for the infringement of Art. 32(1) GDPR.

LSA: French SA

Personal  data  breach  /  Data  security  /  Passwords  /  Data 
subject rights / Administrative fines

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2021:181

Following the notification of a personal data breach on the 
controller’s  website  affecting  210,692  European  nationals, 
the  LSA  conducted  both  on-site  and  online  audits  of  the 
controller to verify its compliance with the GDPR. Thereafter, 
the LSA also carried out a second on-site control in the context 
of the LSA’s investigations regarding five complaints received 
from  customers  and  prospects  concerning  the  commercial 
prospecting by the controller they have been subject to, as 
well as the exercise of their rights.

The  LSA  found  that  the  controller  did  not  facilitate  the 
exercise of data subject rights, as the email address provided 
to them for this purpose was defective. In addition, the LSA 
pointed out the complexity of the right of access procedure 
implemented by the controller for prospects receiving postal 
solicitations. Therefore, the LSA considered that the controller 
failed to comply with its obligations under Art. 12(2) GDPR.

its 

Following 
investigations  regarding  the  data  breach 
notification,  the  LSA  found  that  the  controller  had  failed 
to  ensure  the  security  of  the  personal  data  it  processed. 
Firstly, the LSA found that the controller did not ensure the 
effectiveness  of  the  technical  and  organisational  measures 
implemented  by  its  processor.  In  this  regard,  the  LSA 

concluded that the controller should have been more vigilant 
in  complying  with  security  standards  considering  that  it 
had already been sanctioned by the LSA for security issues 
involving  the  same  processor.  Finally,  the  LSA  considered 
that the controller's requirements regarding the robustness 
of passwords, when it comes to their length and complexity, 
were insufficient to ensure the security of the personal data 
processed  and  to  prevent  third  parties  from  accessing  the 
personal data. The LSA recommended that a password have 
at least 12 characters - containing at least one capital letter, 
a lower-case letter, a digit and a special character - or at least 
eight characters - containing three of these four characters 
-  if  it  is  accompanied  by  an  additional  measure,  such  as 
the  timing  of  access  to  the  account  after  several  failures, 
setting  up  a  mechanism  to  guard  against  automated  and 
intensive attempts and/or blocking the account after several 
unsuccessful  authentication  attempts.  The  LSA  imposed 
an  administrative  fine  of  EUR  250,000  on  the  controller. 
In  addition,  the  LSA  imposed  a  compliance  order  on  the 
controller to remedy its breaches of Art. 12 and Art. 32 GDPR 
with a penalty payment of EUR 500 per delayed day, starting 
from  the  end  of  a  period  of  three  months  following  the 
notification of the decision.

LSA: French SA

Transparency / Right to erasure / Data security / Passwords 
/ Administrative fines

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2021:279

The  LSA  carried  out  a  volition  audit  at  the  premises  of  a 
controller  in  order  to  verify  its  compliance  with  the  GDPR. 
The audit focused on the processing of personal data relating 
to the company’s current and prospective customers. More 
specifically, the LSA investigated the information provided to 

5555

EDPB Annual Report 2021data  subjects,  compliance  concerning  data  subjects’  rights 
and  data  retention  periods.  In  order  to  complete  these 
investigations, the LSA also carried out an online audit relating 
to all processing accessible from the controller’s website, with 
a particular focus on, among other issues, the methods used 
for informing data subjects.

In the course of its investigation, the LSA noted that the active 
database of the controller contained personal data of 16.653 
persons who had not placed an order in more than 5 years 
and 130,000 persons who have not signed into their customer 
account in more than 5 years. In this regard, the LSA ruled 
that, although the controller implemented a retention period 
policy, personal data were kept for much longer periods than 
those specified in this policy on the day of the audit and did 
not  appear  to  be  appropriate  for  the  purposes  for  which 
the  data  were  processed  (Art.  5(1)(e)  GDPR).  Furthermore, 
following  its  on-site  and  online  audits,  the  LSA  found  that 
certain mandatory information provided for by Art. 13 GDPR 
was  missing,  namely  the  contact  details  of  the  DPO,  the 
data retention periods, the legal basis of the processing and 
information  on  certain  data  protection  rights.  Nonetheless, 
the LSA noted that the company had complied with all the 
points raised regarding the information of data subjects by 
the end of the investigation.

As  to  the  controller’s  obligation  to  comply  with  requests 
to delete personal data (Art. 17 GDPR), the LSA found that 
when  an  individual  requested  the  deletion  of  its  account, 
the company simply deactivated the account in question. In 
this regard, the LSA stressed that the email address used for 
marketing purposes should have been deleted in the event of 
withdrawal of consent insofar as its retention is not legitimate 
on any other basis. The company took measures in the course 
of the procedure, but did not fully achieve compliance, so the 
LSA issued an injunction against the company.

Finally, the LSA found that the format of passwords when both 
creating an account on the controller’s website and accessing 
the customer databases were insufficiently robust to ensure 
data security within the meaning of Art. 32 GDPR. The LSA 
found further infringements of the same provision due to the 
obsolete nature of the hash function used for the storage of 
passwords of employees using the controller’s website and 
the  use  of  the  same  account  by  several  employees  when 
accessing a copy of the controller’s production database.

The LSA imposed an administrative fine of EUR 300,000 to the 
controller for breaching Art. 5(1)(e), Art. 13, Art. 17 and Art. 
32 GDPR. In addition, the LSA imposed a compliance order on 
the controller to remedy its breach of Art. 5(1)(e) GDPR with 
a penalty payment of EUR 500 per delayed day, starting from 
the end of a period of three months following notification of 
the decision.

LSA: Lithuanian SA

Personal  data  breach  /  Data  security  /  Publicly  available 
data / Administrative fines

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: not available yet

The LSA started inspections on its own initiative upon receiving 
information that personal data of 111,052 customers of the 
controller (among which 433 residing in other EU countries), 
including  personal  identification  numbers,  had  been  made 
publicly  available.  The  LSA  subsequently  received  a  data 
breach  notification  and  additional  information  from  the 
controller.

The case was opened on the basis of a motion for imposition 
of an administrative fine sent by the LSA to the controller on 
25 May 2021. The motion established that the personal data 
made public had been received from the backup copy of a 

5656

EDPB Annual Report 2021database  stored  in  the  controller’s  online  storage  without 
protection. The unprotected database had been created on 27 
February 2018, meaning that the breach had existed from this 
date until 16 February 2021 when the controller suspended 
external  access  to  the  database,  hence  the  applicability  of 
the GDPR to the case. The controller provided clarifications 
with regard to the motion, alleging procedural irregularities, 
including the unreasonable extension of the investigation, the 
improper definition of the GDPR applicability to the case and 
factual errors, all of which the LSA considered and responded 
to in its final decision.

Analysis  of  the  data  stored  in  the  database  showed  that 
personal  data  (names,  driving  licences,  payment  cards) 
had  been  stored  in  open  text  without  encryption,  and  the 
passwords in the database encrypted with SHA-1 had been 
weak  and  unsafe.  The  controller  had  failed  to  purchase 
additional  log  record  services  for  the  database  making  it 
difficult to determine when and how many times customer 
data  had  been  misappropriated.  Considering  this,  the  LSA 
found that the controller had performed post-breach security 
analysis  (audits  of  firewalls,  access  rights,  testing  systems 
etc.) and had complied with Art. 33(3) GDPR. However, the 
LSA established that by failing to ensure proper access control 
and restrictions, by enabling third parties to access the file 
containing personal data without authorisation, by failing to 
ensure confidentiality of data stored in such file, by failing to 
record and store log records of access to and actions with the 
file, the controller had failed to comply with the requirements 
of Art. 32(1)(a) and (b) GDPR.

In  addition,  by  failing  to  ensure  proper  management  and 
control of the security of personal data, to appoint a competent 
person  responsible  for  security  and  risk  management,  to 
segregate the duties and limits of responsibilities in the area 
of IT creation and maintenance from those in the area of cyber 
security, and to ensure recording, monitoring and assessment 
of  access  to  and  actions  with  the  file,  the  controller  had 

5757

violated  the  requirements  of  Art.  24(1)  and  Art.  32(1)(d) 
GDPR. As a result, the breach had created a risk to the rights 
and  freedoms  of  natural  persons,  such  as  possible  identity 
fraud, unlawful tracking, social engineering and others.

In light of the above, the LSA imposed on the controller an 
administrative fine of EUR 110,000 for breach of Art. 32(1)(a), 
(b) and (d) GDPR.

6.1.3.2. 

Selection of other cases on the 
interpretation of GDPR provisions

LSA: Latvian SA

Special  categories  of  data  /  Biometrics  /  Fingerprints  / 
Lawfulness of processing

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: not available yet

The LSA received information that a sports club is processing 
data subjects’ (clients) fingerprints for customer identification 
in order to permit clients to enter the premises of the sports 
club. After investigating the circumstances of the incident, the 
LSA established that the controller used a biometric access 
control system in order to provide access control of clients to 
the sports club’s premises. The LSA established that biometric 
data  uniquely  identifying  natural  persons  were  processed 
without a GDPR compliant legal basis and in disregard of the 
GDPR in regard to the principles of processing personal data. 
From  2016  until  2021,  the  controller  processed  biometric 
data of approximately 3,000 data subjects in order to ensure 
access control to the premises.

The LSA imposed an administrative fine of EUR 5,836 on the 
controller. The LSA also ordered the controller to delete the 
biometric data of clients (both existing and former), including 
a  digital  fingerprint  point  card  created  from  a  fingerprint 

EDPB Annual Report 2021and  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  GDPR.  When 
imposing a fine, the LSA took into account the nature of the 
incident,  the  duration,  the  importance  and  purpose  of  the 
processing, the number of persons concerned, the conduct of 
the controller with a view to mitigating the damage suffered 
by  the  data  subjects  (the  controller,  following  the  LSA’s 
request, ceased the processing of personal data), as well as 
the fact that the controller ensured cooperation with the LSA 
during the investigation.

LSA: Cypriot SA

Special  categories  of  data  /  Health  data  /  Employment  / 
Lawfulness of processing / Consent / Data minimisation

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:CY:OSS:D:2021:175

The LSA investigated a complaint against the controller whose 
main activity is the provision of recruitment and placement 
services  for  cruise  ships.  Prior  to  starting  work  on  a  ship, 
the  controller  requests  from  employees  to  sign  a  general 
authorisation for the release of medical records in order to 
have access over them and be able to assist the employees 
with  medical  care,  to  arrange  any  associated  travel  and  to 
handle any medical claim, in the event of a medical incident 
taking place on-board.

The LSA found that the authorisation appears to be based on 
the consent of the employee. However, the LSA considered 
that  the  condition  of  freely  given  consent  was  not  fulfilled 
in  the  present  case,  as  employees  of  the  controller  who 
are  requested  to  sign  the  privacy  notice  in  advance  upon 
commencement  of  employment,  had  no  real  choice. 
Consequently,  consent  is  not  considered  to  be  freely  given 
when the employee is unable to refuse or withdraw his or 
her consent without detriment. The LSA recalled that in line 
with Art. 7(3) GDPR, the data subject shall have the right to 

withdraw  their  consent  at  any  time  and  the  withdrawal  of 
consent shall not affect the lawfulness of processing based 
on  consent  before  its  withdrawal.  The  LSA  also  considered 
that  in  the  employment  sector,  in  general,  consent  should 
not  be  used  as  the  lawful  basis  for  the  processing  due 
to  the  imbalance  of  the  relationship  between  employer 
and employee. The LSA further stated that in line with the 
principle  of  data  minimisation  the  controller  should  collect 
and generally process only data that are absolutely necessary 
to be able to assist the employees. The LSA was called upon 
to assess whether the controller could rely on another legal 
basis for the collection and general processing of employees’ 
health-related data, other than consent. The LSA explained 
that the controller could possibly rely on Art. 9(2) GDPR, as it 
provides a list of possible exemptions to the ban on processing 
special categories of data, if certain additional conditions are 
fulfilled by the controller.

The  LSA  ordered  the  controller  to  cease  the  processing  of 
health  data  of  employees  based  on  consent,  to  bring  the 
processing into compliance with the provisions of the GDPR 
and in particular to take actions that consist of processing only 
the  health-related  data  in  the  employment  context  which 
are necessary for the discharge of obligations laid down by 
law or by the collective agreements for the purposes of the 
recruitment, the performance of the contract of employment, 
health and safety at work, and the exercise and enjoyment of 
the rights and benefits of employees, as well as to inform the 
LSA on the actions taken to comply with its decision at the 
latest within one month from the date of the decision.

5858

EDPB Annual Report 2021LSA: Swedish SA

Right  to  erasure  /  Legitimate  interest  /  Payment  data  / 
Transparency and information

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:SE:OSS:D:2021:196

This case before the Swedish SA involved a complainant who 
previously had an account and a payment subscription to the 
controller’s services. The complainant requested several times 
for his card details to be erased by the controller. According 
to the controller, it only processes unique identifiers for the 
payment cards or “instruments” (unique payment instrument 
identifiers) used by a customer when registering for free trial 
periods. The legal basis for the processing is legitimate interest. 
The  controller  considered  that  the  continued  processing  of 
the data is not subject to the right to erasure because the 
controller has a strong, legitimate interest in continuing the 
processing  that  outweighs  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the 
complainant, as the processing is necessary for the controller 
in counteracting fraud.

The  LSA  recalled  that  for  processing  to  be  based  on  Art. 
6(1)(f) GDPR, all three conditions provided therein must be 
fulfilled. Firstly, the controller or third party has a legitimate 
interest  (legitimate  interest),  secondly,  the  processing  is 
necessary  for  purposes  of  legitimate  interest  (necessary) 
and third the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms 
of  the  data  subject  do  not  weigh  heavier  and  require  the 
protection  of  personal  data  (balance  of  interest).  The  LSA 
analysed the three conditions and in light of the reasons the 
controller had presented, the LSA found that the controller 
demonstrated compelling legitimate grounds that outweigh 
the  complainant’s 
interests,  freedoms  and  rights.  The 
controller  thus  had  the  right  to  continue  processing  the 
data after the complaint objected to the processing and the 

complainant was therefore not entitled to erasure under Art. 
17(1)(c) GDPR.

Nevertheless,  the  LSA  concluded  that  the  controller’s 
response  to  the  complainant  had  not  been  sufficiently 
justified pursuant to Art. 12(4) GDPR because the controller 
had not clearly stated what personal data is being processed, 
that the data is processed on the basis of a legitimate interest 
and what the legitimate interest is and that the answer did 
not  contain  information  about  the  possibility  of  lodging  a 
complaint with a supervisory authority and seeking a judicial 
remedy. The controller had thus processed personal data in 
violation of Art. 12(4) GDPR.

The LSA issued a reprimand to the controller.

LSA: French SA

Data subject rights / Data retention / Data security / Data 
processing agreements / Record of processing activities

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:FR:OSS:D:2021:202

This case involved a controller who runs a platform for rental 
vehicles, which puts vehicle owners in contact with private 
individuals.  One  of  the  controller’s  customers  complained 
that his driving license was accessible via any browser with no 
authentication required, by entering an URL that connected 
to  a  software  tool  of  the  controller’s  subcontractor.  The 
complainant  stated  that  he  had  made  several  requests  for 
deletion of his driving license but to no avail.

Upon investigation, the LSA found that although the controller 
had  defined  a  policy  on  data  retention  periods,  in  practice 
there had been no restriction on the retention of data relating 
to the creation of users’ accounts. According to the LSA, this 
constituted a breach of the obligations of Art. 5(1)(e) GDPR. 

5959

EDPB Annual Report 2021Furthermore, the LSA found that customer records created by 
the controller were not anonymised and it was still technically 
possible to re-identify customers from their user numbers by, 
for  example,  cross-referencing  them  with  other  indirectly 
identifying personal data. Therefore, the general data erasure 
procedure implemented by the controller did not guarantee 
data  subjects’  right  to  erasure  and  the  controller  breached 
Art. 17 GDPR.

The  controller  had  entrusted  verification  of  the  identities 
of  its  users’  profiles  to  two  service  providers  processing 
personal  data  on  its  behalf.  However,  the  relevant  service 
provision contracts did not satisfy the requirements of Art. 
28(3) GDPR. In addition, according to the LSA, although the 
controller had fewer than 250 employees, it was carrying out 
a  variety  of  personal  data  processing  operations  regarding 
prospects and customers on a regular basis and for purposes 
such  as  marketing,  customer  management  and  combating 
fraud. Despite that, the controller did not keep a record of 
processing activities and breached Art. 30 GDPR. Finally, the 
controller did not implement appropriate security measures 
to  protect  from  potential  unauthorised  access  to  the 
supporting documents sent by users via email and retained 
the  passwords  to  over  150,000  user  accounts  in  a  form 
that did not ensure their confidentiality. The LSA also found 
that  the  way  of  communicating  data  in  response  to  access 
requests was exposing the data to a risk of compromise in the 
event of an attacker’s intrusion into the data subject’s inbox 
or interception of emails by an unauthorised third party.

The  LSA  ordered  the  controller  to  comply  with  the  above-
mentioned  GDPR  provisions  and  to  adopt,  within  three 
months,  the  following  measures:  define  and  implement  a 
policy on retention periods for its customers’ and prospects’ 
data,  define  and  implement  an  effective  procedure  for 
the  right  to  erasure,  complete  the  contracts  with  the  data 
processors by including the missing terms, keep a record of 
processing activities, take all necessary security measures, so 

as to ensure the security of the data and prevent unauthorised 
third parties from accessing them.

LSA: Icelandic SA

Personal data breach / Data security / Education 

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:IS:OSS:D:2021:216

This  case  of  the  Icelandic  SA  involved  a  controller  which  is 
a company developing and operating an online information 
system intended for schools and other entities working with 
children,  which  allows  for  information  exchanges  between 
schools and parents. The case was opened after the controller 
informed  the  LSA  via  telephone  of  a  data  breach  that  had 
occurred in February 2019 due to a vulnerability within the 
online information system. The breach was made on purpose, 
by one of the students’ parents, who wanted to expose faulty 
security  within  the  system.  The  parent  was  able  to  access 
data from 423 students in 90 schools in Iceland while logged 
in, by using a script creating a random number in the visible 
web  page  address  number  found  in  the  URL-bar  (address-
bar) of each student’s personal page. Students’ names and 
profile pictures and in some instances national identification 
numbers of students and/or their custodians were disclosed. 
The parent also contacted another person with access to the 
same system in Sweden who was able to access the national 
identification number and avatar of one child in Sweden.

The  controller  stated  that,  immediately  after  becoming 
aware of the breach, it had activated an action plan and had 
informed the principals of every elementary school in Iceland. 
The LSA carried out an investigation and found, on the basis 
of  the  information  and  data  provided  by  the  controller, 
that  human  error  led  to  the  data  breach  since  a  solution 
for  the  vulnerability,  which  had  already  been  created,  had 
not  been  fully  implemented.  Insufficient  follow-up  and 

6060

EDPB Annual Report 2021testing of security measures then led to this fact not being 
discovered until after the data breach had already occurred. 
The LSA concluded that the controller did not comply with the 
requirements of Art. 32(1)(b) and (d) GDPR, Art. 5(1)(f) GDPR 
and the relevant national law provisions.

Additionally,  the  controller  did  not  ensure  proper  security 
of  personal  data  of  the  data  subjects  affected  by  the  data 
breach, because it had mistakenly sent national identification 
numbers to the wrong schools and data protection officers 
and  therefore  did  not  comply  with  Art.  5(1)(f)  GDPR  and 
relevant national law provisions.

The  LSA  imposed  an  administrative  fine  of  ISK  3,500,000 
(approximately EUR 238,475) on the controller.

LSA: Berlin SA

Right to erasure / Lawfulness of processing

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:DEBE:OSS:D:2021:229

On 29 April 2018, a complainant requested the controller to 
erase his personal data and to close his customer account. 
The controller confirmed to the complainant the erasure by 
an email on 30 April 2018. In spite of this confirmation, the 
complainant submitted that a few months later he received 
an  email  from  the  controller  informing  him  that  the  email 
address  of  his  customer  account  had  been  changed.  The 
complainant contacted the controller again, insisting that his 
customer account should have been erased. The account was 
finally erased on 26 March 2019.

In  the  course  of  its  communication  with  the  LSA,  the 
controller explained its procedure applicable to requests for 
erasure and stated that the delay in the current case could 
have been due to obstacles, which were no longer possible 

6161

to assess. In addition, the controller claimed that the alleged 
violation should have been assessed in light of the national 
law applicable prior to the GDPR’s entry into application.  

The  LSA  first  explained  that  although  the  failure  to  erase 
the complainant's personal data is a processing that started 
before  the  25  May  2018,  the  GDPR  applies  because  the 
complainant's request was not complied with until 26 March 
2019. Therefore, the lawfulness of the processing of personal 
data has to be assessed in light of the GDPR. 

The  LSA  found  that  the  failure  to  erase  the  complainant's 
customer account constituted a violation of Art. 17(1)(a) and 
(b) GDPR, in conjunction with Art. 6(1) and Art. 5(1) GDPR. It 
recalled that if one of the grounds listed in Art. 17(1) GDPR 
applies,  the  controller  has  to  erase  the  complainant’s  data 
immediately,  i.e.  without  undue  delay.  The  LSA  also  found 
that the controller could not successfully invoke any of the 
exceptions under Art. 17(3)(e) GDPR. 

First,  regarding  the  violation  of  Art.  17(1)  GDPR,  the  LSA 
concluded that with the declaration of the request for erasure 
on 29 April 2018, the purpose of processing had ceased to 
exist and erasure was possible on the basis of Art. 17(1)(a) 
GDPR.  By  requesting  the  closure  of  his  customer  account, 
the  complainant  had  initiated  the  end  of  the  customer 
relationship, so continued storage of the data was no longer 
necessary  within  the  meaning  of  Art.  6(1)(b)  GDPR.  In 
addition, according to the LSA, the data subject was entitled 
to request deletion of his personal data based on Art. 17(1)(b) 
GDPR too, since the request for erasure implicitly includes the 
withdrawal of consent within the meaning of Art. 7(3) GDPR. 
The retention of the personal data could not be based on Art. 
6(1)(f) GDPR, as there was no overriding legitimate interest 
in not erasing the data and there were no actual indications 
for the existence of grounds for obstruction (e.g., outstanding 
invoices).  Moreover,  the  controller  could  not  successfully 
invoke any of the exceptions under Art. 17(3) GDPR.

EDPB Annual Report 2021Second,  the  LSA  concluded  that  continued  storage  of  the 
complainant's  personal  data  also  constituted  a  violation 
of Art. 6(1) GDPR because there was no legal basis for the 
continued storage of the data after the request for erasure. 
The controller bears the burden of proof for the existence of 
one of the conditions mentioned in Art. 6(1)(a) to (f) GDPR, 
which was not provided in the present case.

In  light  of  the  above,  and  since  it  could  not  be  clearly 
established  whether  the  e-mail  address  of  the  customer 
account  had  been  changed  before  the  request  for  erasure, 
the LSA issued a reprimand to the controller. 

that, as the complainant had the right to request a simplified 
invoice  without  being  asked  for  an  identification  number 
to  be  issued,  the  controller  infringed  Art.  6(1)  GDPR  and, 
consequently, the principle laid down in Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR. 

In view of the above, the LSA imposed on the controller an 
administrative fine of EUR 6,000 for infringements of Art. 5(1)
(c), Art. 6(1), Art. 12, Art. 13 and Art. 21 GDPR. The controller 
was given three months to align its privacy policy with Arts. 
12 and 13 GDPR, as well as to stop requesting the customer’s 
tax identification number, unless it obtained valid consent or 
it is required by law to process this data.

LSA: Spanish SA

LSA: Romanian SA

E-commerce  /  Transparency  /  Lawfulness  of  processing  / 
Data subject rights / Right to be informed / Right to object

Data subject rights / Right to erasure / Right to be informed 
/ Publicly available data

Year of decision: 2021

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:ES:OSS:D:2021:263

OSS register number: not available yet

Following a data subject’s complaint launched in Germany, the 
LSA found that the privacy policy of the controller’s website 
was difficult to read due to a large number of grammatical 
and spelling errors, and that its structure was confusing. As 
a result, the LSA found that the privacy policy violated Art. 
12(1) GDPR regarding the obligation to provide information 
to  data  subjects  in  a  concise,  transparent,  intelligible  and 
easily  accessible  form.  Additionally,  several  shortcomings 
were identified by the LSA as to the content of the controller’s 
privacy policy, resulting in a violation of Art. 13 GDPR.

In particular, the LSA ruled that the information concerning the 
right to object under Art. 21(1) GDPR is drafted in a confusing 
manner  which  made  it  more  difficult  for  data  subjects  to 
exercise their right to object to processing of their data for 
direct marketing purposes. As a result, an infringement of Art. 
21(4) GDPR was found by the LSA. Finally, the LSA considered 

The investigation started following a complaint from a Polish 
citizen claiming that their personal data had been published 
on  the  website  of  the  controller  without  their  consent 
and  that  they  had  requested  data  erasure.  The  controller, 
headquartered 
in  Romania,  manages  online  catalogues 
based on data collected from public databases from various 
countries in order to facilitate the fast search of information 
related to over 60 million companies and professionals. The 
website is available in various versions of European domain 
names and in the national languages of multiple EU Member 
States.

According to the controller, the identification elements of the 
complainant in the controller’s online catalogue included the 
professional  name  and  address,  the  trade  register  number, 
the  fiscal  attribute  and  the  field  of  activity,  which  were  all 
collected from a public database. The controller also indicated 

6262

EDPB Annual Report 2021that  the  deletion  option  was  accessible  on  the  website 
without the controller being notified. The controller further 
explained that the complainant’s request on the website had 
not been processed by error and their subsequent email had 
been sent to spam and not processed on time. Consequently, 
the controller found out about the request only after the LSA 
contacted them and immediately took measures to erase the 
data and inform the complainant. 

The LSA found that the controller did not handle the request 
in  accordance  with  Art.  17  GDPR  and  did  not  send  a  reply 
within the deadlines provided by Art. 12(3) GDPR. The LSA 
also recalled that, pursuant to Art. 24 GDPR, the controller is 
obliged to implement appropriate technical and organisational 
measures  to  ensure  and  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  the 
processing is performed in accordance with the GDPR. This 
includes  appropriate  and  effective  measures  guaranteeing 
that all requests received via publicly provided contact details 
are assessed and handled under the conditions and deadlines 
provided for in Art. 12 to Art. 22 GDPR.

Furthermore, the LSA concluded that the controller had not 
provided  the  data  subject  with  the  complete  information 
required under Art. 12 to Art. 14 GDPR, including information 
regarding the legal basis of the processing. The LSA highlighted 
that all situations, in which a controller processes information 
allowing  the  identification  of  individuals,  even  if  related  to 
their  professional  activity,  fall  within  the  material  scope  of 
the GDPR.

In  light  of  the  above,  the  LSA  issued  reprimands  to  the 
controller.  The  LSA  also 
imposed  corrective  measures 
on  the  controller:  to 
implement  appropriate  technical 
and  organisational  measures,  including  appropriate  data 
protection policies; to ensure the lawfulness of the processing 
in accordance with Arts. 5 and 6 GDPR of personal data that 
is available in online catalogues; to provide all the necessary 
information in accordance with Art. 12 to Art. 14 GDPR and to 

6363

ensure respect of the data subjects rights, as provided by Art. 
15 to Art. 22 GDPR.

LSA: Maltese SA

Restriction  of  processing  /  Data  subject  rights  /  Debt 
collection 

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:MT:OSS:D:2021:272

In  this  case,  a  complainant  alleged  that  the  controller 
obtained his personal data from an unspecified source and 
was requesting repayment of a loan which the complainant 
never  took.  The  complainant  also  stated  that  he  had  been 
a victim of identity theft by a third party and requested to 
determine how his data had come into the possession of the 
controller.

In response, the controller stated that it had been informed 
by the police about the illegal use of the complaint’s personal 
data  and  had  immediately  stopped  all  debt  collection 
activities.  The  controller  had  also  received  a  letter  from 
the  complainant  requiring  refraining  from  processing  any 
personal  data  of  the  complainant  and  to  discontinue  any 
communication with regard to the loan. The controller had 
decided not to reply to this letter based on the understanding 
that  any  further  communication  was  undesirable  for  the 
complainant. As to the source, from which the personal data 
had been collected, the controller explained that it had been 
obtained through a loan application via the website after the 
applicant’s  identity  had  been  verified.  The  controller  also 
informed the LSA that it was subject to legal obligations under 
which the retention period for personal data related to loan 
applications and agreements could be up to 10 years.

On the question of determining the source of the complainant’s 
personal data, the LSA noted that the complainant had not 

EDPB Annual Report 2021explicitly asked the controller to provide him with information 
regarding the source of his data. Nevertheless, the controller 
did provide this information to the LSA. As regards the request 
to restrict the processing of the complainant’s personal data, 
the LSA found that the controller acknowledged and complied 
with  the  complainant’s  request  to  restrict  the  processing 
of his personal data. Regarding the lack of response by the 
controller,  the  LSA  noted  that  the  controller  violated  Art. 
12(3)  GDPR  which  lays  down  an  obligation  to  provide  the 
complainant  with  information  on  the  action  taken  on  a 
request under Art. 15 to Art. 22 GDPR, without undue delay 
and in any event within one month of receipt of the request. 
As regards the request for erasure, the LSA agreed that the 
data could not be deleted because processing was necessary 
to comply with national legislation to which the controller is 
subject.

The LSA issued a reprimand to the controller.

LSA: Norwegian SA

Lawfulness of processing / Performance of contract / Direct 
marketing / Right to object 

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:NO:OSS:D:2021:292

This  case  involves  a  complainant  who  hadbeen  receiving 
direct marketing by email without having the possibility to opt 
out upon registration of his email address. He had objected 
to this processing in September 2018, yet he still received a 
direct marketing email in November 2019. The complainant 
contacted  the  DPO  of  the  controller  on  several  occasions, 
and at times, his requests were answered in more than one 
month. When he requested the legal basis for the processing 
of his personal data, which he believed to be consent under 
Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR, the DPO wrote in response that the legal 
basis was rather a necessity for the performance of a contract 

pursuant to Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR. Later, in another email to the 
complainant, the DPO stated that the legal basis was Art. 6(1)
(f) GDPR for the purpose of marketing the controller’s similar 
products and Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR for the purpose of marketing 
in relation to the customer benefit program. 

The  LSA  established  that  there  was  no  designated  opt 
out  possibility  for  marketing  from  the  controller,  but  it 
was  possible  to  ‘approve’  digital  marketing  via  email  and 
SMS  on  the  user’s  page.  As  regards  the  lawfulness  of  the 
processing,  the  LSA  reasoned  that  processing  based  on 
contractual performance must be objectively necessary, i.e. 
the controller should be able to demonstrate how the main 
subject matter of the specific contract with the data subject 
cannot be performed without the specific processing of the 
personal data in question. The processing of personal data for 
marketing purposes by the controller was not necessary for 
the performance of the contract related to the provision of a 
credit card service, and therefore, Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR could not 
provide the legal basis for the processing. The LSA found that 
the controller could not retroactively change the legal basis 
(from  contractual  performance  to  legitimate  interest)  after 
having commenced with the processing, as this leads to a lack 
of predictability for the data subject. In any event, a change 
in the legal basis for processing shall be communicated to the 
data subjects pursuant to Art. 12 to Art. 14 GDPR. 

Further, the LSA found that the controller breached Art. 21(3) 
GDPR  by  continuing  the  processing  of  the  complainant’s 
personal  data  for  direct  marketing  purposes  after  his 
objection to the controller’s DPO. The provision of insufficient 
information on the legal basis of processing and the failure to 
inform the data subject on his right to object to processing for 
direct marketing by the controller constituted a breach of Art. 
13(1), Art. 12(1) and Art. 21(4) GDPR. Finally, the controller’s 
delays  of  over  a  month  to  respond  to  the  complainant’s 
requests,  and  without  giving  him  reasons  for  these  delays, 
constituted a breach of Art. 12(3) GDPR.

6464

EDPB Annual Report 2021The  LSA  issued  a  reprimand  and  ordered  the  controller  to 
implement  measures  to  ensure  that  personal  data  is  no 
longer processed for direct marketing when so requested by 
data subjects and to ensure that data subject requests under 
Art. 15 to Art. 22 GDPR are answered within the time limits 
set in Art. 12(3) GDPR.

LSA: Swedish SA

Join controllership / Direct marketing

Year of decision: 2021

OSS register number: EDPBI:SE:OSS:D:2021:236

A  complainant  stated  that  a  company  provided  the 
complainant’s email address to a third party for the purpose 
of  sending  direct  marketing  to  the  complainant  without 
having a legal basis for it. In December 2018, the complainant 
requested from the third-party access to his data under Art. 
15  GDPR,  which  revealed  that  the  company  disclosed  the 
complainant’s personal data to the third party. The company 
stated that this took place in 2017, before the introduction 
of the GDPR on 25 May 2018 and as such, in 2017, when the 
complainant’s  email  address  was  sent  to  the  third  party  in 
order to be able to target marketing using the third party’s 
custom  audience  function.  This  process  was  carried  out  in 
accordance with the applicable legislation.

In  spring  2018, before  the  introduction  of  the  GDPR  on  25 
May 2018, the third party changed its terms for the custom 
audience  function  and  placed  the  data  in  quarantine  until 
the  company  would  accept  the  new  terms  and  conditions 
of the third party. During this period, the company did not 
have access to or the possibility to use, modify or delete the 
personal data. The company approved the third party’s new 
terms in January 2019 and the quarantine personal data was 
then unlocked by the third party, after which the company 
deleted the complainant’s information.

6565

According  to  the  company,  it  was  only  the  controller  for 
the transfer of the complainant’s personal data to the third 
party and for any direct marketing that took place before the 
personal data was quarantined, i.e. before the GDPR began 
to apply. Furthermore, the company stated that during the 
period  of  the  GDPR,  the  company  only  processed  the  data 
subjects’ personal data for direct marketing with their prior 
consent. 

The  LSA  examined  whether  the  company  has  been  a  joint 
controller during the time the personal data was quarantined, 
i.e. from spring 2018 (before the introduction of the GDPR 
and  when  the  controller  did  not  approve  the  third  party’s 
conditional changes) until January 2019 (when the personal 
data was erased). The LSA found that the company transferred 
the  complainant’s  email  address  to  the  third  party  for  the 
purpose  of  direct  marketing  to  the  complainant.  From  the 
moment the personal data was locked by the third party, no 
direct  marketing  has  been  made  to  the  complainant.  Since 
the  company  did  not  approve  the  third  party’s  conditional 
amendments, it could not continue to process the personal 
data  for  the  purpose  it  was  transferred  to  the  third  party. 
The  company  also  did  not  instruct  the  third  party  to  store 
the  personal  data  in  quarantine.  In  these  circumstances, 
the  purpose  of  the  processing  seems  to  have  changed 
when the third party unilaterally decided to quarantine the 
complainant’s  personal  data.  This  indicates  that  the  third 
party alone determined the purpose and means of processing 
and that the third party has been solely responsible for the 
continued processing (storage).

According  to  the  LSA,  in  this  case,  it  has  not  been  shown 
that  the  company  had  the  opportunity  to  dispose  of  the 
data or affect the processing of the data while quarantined. 
Furthermore, the company has stated that it lacked knowledge 
of whether the third party has directed direct marketing to 
the  complainant  while  the  personal  data  was  locked.  In  an 
overall assessment of the circumstances, the LSA found that 

EDPB Annual Report 2021the  company  cannot  be  regarded  as  a  joint  data  controller 
while the personal data was locked by the third party.

This supervision covers only the company’s processing of the 
complainant’s  personal  data  in  accordance  with  the  GDPR. 
The LSA, therefore, found that the investigation in the case did 
not show that the controller had processed the complainant’s 
personal data in violation of the GDPR. The LSA decided to 
close the case.

6.1.5. 

 Joint operations

The  GDPR  allows  SAs  to  carry  out  joint  investigations  and 
joint enforcement measures. Similar to the Mutual Assistance 
procedure,  SAs  can  use  joint  operations  in  the  context  of 
cross-border  cases  subject  to  the  OSS  procedure,  or  for 
national cases with a cross-border component.

In 2021, SAs did not carry out any joint operation.

6.1.4. 

Mutual assistance

6.2. 

NATIONAL CASES

The  mutual  assistance  procedure  allows  SAs  to  ask  for 
information  from  other  SAs  or  to  request  other  measures 
for  effective  cooperation,  such  as  prior  authorisations  or 
investigations.

Mutual assistance can be used for cross-border cases subject 
to the OSS procedure, either as part of the preliminary phase, 
to gather the necessary information before drafting a decision 
or for national cases with a cross-border component.

The IMI enables the use of either informal mutual assistance 
without  any  legal  deadline  (voluntary  mutual  assistance) 
or  the  use  of  formal  mutual  assistance.  In  the  latter  case, 
according to the GDPR, the SA from which information has 
been requested has a legal deadline of one month to reply.

Between 1 January 2021 and 31 December 2021, SAs initiated 
243 formal mutual assistance procedures and 2418 voluntary 
mutual assistance procedures. 

SAs  have  different  investigative,  advisory  and  corrective 
measures  at  their  disposal  to  ensure  entities  within  their 
countries apply data protection law correctly and consistently. 
Corrective measures include the following:
• 

Issuing  warnings  to  a  controller  or  processor  where  its 
intended processing operations are likely to infringe the 
GDPR;

• 

Issuing  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  processor  where 
processing operations have infringed the GDPR;

•  Ordering the controller or processor to comply with a data 
subject’s  request  or  to  bring  processing  operations  into 
compliance with the GDPR;

• 

Imposing processing limitations, bans or fines.

6.2.1. 

Some relevant national cases with 
exercise of corrective powers 

SAs play a key role in safeguarding individuals’ data protection 
rights. They can do this by exercising corrective powers. The 
EDPB website includes a selection of SA supervisory actions. 
This section of the Annual Report contains a non-exhaustive 
list of certain national enforcement actions in different EEA 
countries carried out outside the OSS cooperation mechanism. 

6666

EDPB Annual Report 2021Several  cases  highlighted  a  lack  of  proper  technical  and 
organisational  measures 
for  processing  personal  data 
securely,  which  led  to  data  breaches.  Many  other  cases 
revolved  around  data  processing  without  a  data  subject’s 
consent.  Some  significant  incidents  involved  the  unlawful 
processing  of  special  categories  of  personal  data,  such  as 
health  data.  Numerous  cases  involved  data  subjects  who 
could  not  effectively  exercise  their  rights,  such  as  the  right 
of  access,  the  right  to  erasure  and  the  right  to  object  to 
a  processing  act.  A  great  number  of  cases  also  include  the 
controller’s failure to notify the data subjects of the occurred 
or the potential risk of data breaches. The entities fined were 
from both the private and the public sectors.

6.2.1.1. 

Austria

The Austrian SA carried out several investigations and gave a 
number of fines and warnings during 2021.

On  17  February,  the  Austrian  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR 
4,000,000  on  an  Austrian  bank  for  failing  to  ensure  that 
the  bank  customer  data  processed  as  part  of  an  Excel  file, 
which  had  been  unintentionally  sent  to  227  unauthorised 
recipients,  was  encrypted  or  otherwise  protected  by  an 
access authorization system that would prevent unauthorised 
access and unintentional disclosure to third parties.

On 26 July, the Austrian SA issued a fine of EUR 2,000,000 on 
a data controller that processed data, for a loyalty program, 
solely based on invalid consent. In particular, it found that the 
requests for consent from the data controller were designed 
in  such  a  misleading  manner  that  no  valid  consent  by  the 
data subjects could be assumed. This made the data profiling 
unlawful, retrospectively for the entire period.

On  28  September,  the  Österreichische  Post  was  fined  EUR 
9,500,000 for failing to facilitate the exercise of data subjects' 
rights.  In  fact,  the  controller  systematically  restricted  their 

6767

rights by ignoring and not processing inquiries sent by email, 
which  were  later  disposed  of  together  with  the  mailbox. 
The  affected  data  subject  had  to  submit  a  completely  new 
application through a predefined contact form, regardless of 
their previously submitted inquiry through email. The contact 
form also limited the ways in which the data subjects could 
identify themselves.

6.2.1.2. 

Belgium

The  Belgian  SA  addressed  numerous  complaints  and  found 
violations  by  data  controllers  on  issues  related  to,  among 
others, transparency, data subjects’ rights, marketing, trading 
data,  smart  cameras  and  COVID-19.  This  section  expands 
upon a selection of interesting cases.

In January, the Litigation Chamber of the Belgian SA issued 
a fine of EUR 50,000 and ordered the controller, a company 
distributing promotional packages, to comply with the GDPR. 
The  decision  was  made  in  consideration  of  the  number  of 
data subjects affected, the seriousness of the breach and the 
nature of the data processed. In particular, it found that the 
controller  did  not  properly  inform  the  data  subjects  about 
the trading of their data and the consent given by them for 
these data transfers were not valid, as consent was clearly not 
informed, but also not specific or freely given.

Later  in  April,  the  Belgian  SA  adopted  a  decision  on  the 
responsibility of a controller (a bank) for the abusive usage of 
the IT system by one of its employees. The controller was fined 
EUR 100,000 and was ordered to make all employees’ access 
to the database of the Central Individual Credit Register of 
the Belgian National Bank compliant with Art. 5(1)(f) and Art. 
32 GDPR. To achieve such compliance in a transparent and 
traceable manner, the controller should keep a journal of IT 
logs.

EDPB Annual Report 2021In December, there were four cases worth highlighting.

The first one revolves around a controller who was sanctioned 
for not complying with a request to erase personal data in 
the context of unsolicited direct marketing communication. 
The Litigation Chamber of the Belgian SA established that the 
controller’s actions amounted to a violation of Art. 12, Art. 14, 
Art. 15, Art. 17 and Art. 21 GDPR. In addition, it ordered the 
controller to inform, within 1 month, all data subjects whose 
personal data had been acquired and further issued a fine of 
EUR 10,000.

The  second  case  concerned  the  exercise  of  the  right  to  be 
forgotten. A press group refused to delete numerous press 
articles archived and available on their website that contained 
personal data of the complainant. Despite the complainant’s 
efforts in arguing for deletion, anonymisation or replacement 
of his identity with his initials, the Belgian SA dismissed the 
complaint by indicating that the press publishers were right 
to refuse the requested deletion.

In the third case, a reprimand was issued against the petition 
platform Change.org (the controller) for repetitively sending 
emails. The controller was ordered to communicate, at the 
first  moment  of  contact  with  the  email  recipient,  how  can 
the  data  subjects’  rights  be  exercised  more  transparently, 
but also include a link to its privacy policy. In order, to ensure 
compliance, the controller was ordered to submit evidence of 
compliance to the Belgian SA.

The fourth case concerned a controller’s IT system that did not 
permit the full enjoyment of the right of correction and also 
dealt with an issue of conflict of interest of the controller’s 
DPO.  The  Belgian  SA  discontinued  the  proceedings  for 
infringement of Art. 5(1)(d), Art. 16 and Art. 25 GDPR since 
the controller (a bank) proved that the necessary steps were 
taken  to  process  the  diacritical  marks  in  the  names  of  the 
clients. However, as the conflict of interest on the part of the 

bank’s  DPO  constituted  a  violation  of  Art.  38(6)  GDPR,  the 
controller was issued a fine of EUR 75,000.

In  2021,  the  Litigation  Chamber  of  the  Belgian  SA  also 
handled another interesting case in relation to smart cameras 
and  the  use  of  cookies.  It  was  concluded  that  there  was 
no  infringement  pertaining  to  the  setting  up  of  cameras 
by the controller Westtoer at the Belgian coast to measure 
the  number  of  visitors  during  the  summer  months  due  to 
the risks associated with COVID-19. However, the Litigation 
Chamber  reprimanded  the  controller  and  ordered  to  bring 
certain things (such as the consent for the use of cookies on 
Westtoer’s website, its register of processing activities and its 
privacy policy) into compliance.

6.2.1.3. 

Bulgaria

In 2021, the Bulgarian SA experienced a continued increase 
in the number of complaints and actions taken from 2020. 
Up  until  30  September,  it  issued  a  total  of  408  decisions 
that addressed complaints from a number of different data 
subjects and legal entities, state authorities and organizations. 
Upon  reviewing  the  complaints,  the  following  corrective 
powers  were  imposed:  one  warning,  10  official  warnings, 
three orders for execution of requests of a data subject and 
66 orders for administrative penalties. Most violations were 
made  by  data  controllers  processing  personal  data  in  the 
area of courier services, heat accounting, hospitals and other 
medical institutions, as well as mass video surveillance. This 
section will cover a selection of cases.

The  Bulgarian  SA  handled  a  case  concerning 
illegal 
dissemination  of  personal  data.  It  concluded  a  violation  of 
Art. 32(1)(b) GDPR on the side of the controller, the Ministry 
of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the processor, the 
liquidator of SBDPLFZR – Raduntsi. The SA issued two penal 
decrees  imposing  a  “property  sanction”  on  the  Ministry 
of  Health  in  his  capacity  as  personal  data  controller  and  a 

6868

EDPB Annual Report 2021“penalty” on the liquidator in his capacity as personal data 
processor.

• 

A  public  figure  filed  a  complaint  to  the  Bulgarian  SA  for 
the  improper  disclosure  of  personal  information  by  the 
controller,  a  press  media  website,  in  a  website  article.  The 
controller  argued  that  the  data  had  been  processed  for 
journalistic  purposes.  Bearing  in  mind  the  public  nature  of 
the data subject’s profile, the case required a good balance 
between the right to protection of privacy and the right to 
freedom of expression and the right to information. The SA 
concluded that the publication of the complainant’s date of 
birth and the full address was not in line with the principle 
of data minimisation, therefore that information needed to 
be deleted. Due to the violation of Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR, the SA 
issued  a  fine  of  EUR  2,500  on  the  controller.  The  decision 
of  the  Bulgarian  SA  was  appealed  twice,  but  the  Supreme 
Administrative Court of Bulgaria finally confirmed and upheld 
the decision made by the SA.

A complaint has been raised before the Bulgarian SA against 
the Supreme Administrative Court of Bulgaria after denying 
a data subject’s access to their assessed written work, which 
violated Art. 15 GDPR. Furthermore, upon a revision of the 
controller’s  internal  rules  and  the  register  of  processing 
activities, the SA established that the controller has managed 
to limit the scope of the concept of personal data.

6.2.1.4. 

Cyprus

The Cyprus SA issued multiple fines in 2021. The Cyprus SA 
carried out these enforcement acts:
• 

Issued  a  fine  of  EUR  925,000  on  the  controller  WS 
WiSpear  Systems  Ltd  for  the  collection  and  storage  of 
Mac Addresses (Media Access Control Address) and IMSIs 
(International  Mobile  Subscriber  Identity),  in  breach  of 
GDPR Art. 5(1)(a) GDPR;

6969

Imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  40,000  on  the  controller  APOEL 
FOOTBALL  (PUBLIC)  LTD  for  violating  Art.  24(1)  and  Art. 
32(1) GDPR and ordered it to inform potentially affected 
football  fans  by  the  data  breach.  The  SA  also  issued 
another fine of EUR 40,000 on the controller OMONOIA 
FOOTBALL LTD for the violation of Art. 24(1) and Art. 32(1) 
GDPR and a fine of EUR 25,000 on the processor Hellenic 
Technical Enterprises Ltd for breaching Art. 28(1) and Art. 
32(1) GDPR;

• 

Issued a EUR 10,000 fine to the Mediterranean Hospital of 
Cyprus for violation of Art. 31 and Art. 58(1)(a) GDPR due 
to its disregard of the SA Commissioner’s orders and for 
avoiding cooperation with the SA.

The  Cyprus  SA  also  issued  six  fines  to  various  controllers 
for  providing  unsolicited  communication  to  data  subjects, 
including the following:
•  A fine of EUR 12,000 to the Democratic Party;

•  A EUR 4,500 fine to the EDEK Social Democrats political 

movement;

6.2.1.5. 

Czech Republic

In  2020,  the  Czech  SA  fined  a  controller  CZK  50,000  (EUR 
2,000)  for  publishing  personal  data  of  participants  in  court 
hearings  that  were  meant  to  be  public  in  a  limited  time 
period.  The  SA  stated  that  the  controller  did  not  have  any 
legal ground to publish the data and highlighted that the right 
to privacy overrode interest in further data disclosure without 
considering the individuality of every case. The controller was 
further ordered to cease the processing of the personal data 
in a separate proceeding.

6.2.1.6. 

Denmark

Unlike  in  other  EEA  jurisdictions  where  the  SAs  have  the 
authority  to 
in 
Denmark, the Danish SA first investigates a data protection 

issue  administrative  fines  themselves, 

EDPB Annual Report 2021legal violation and then reports it to the police. The police 
then  investigate  whether  there  are  grounds  for  raising  a 
charge and finally a court decides on a possible fine.

In  January,  the  Danish  SA  decided  that  the  IT  University  of 
Copenhagen did not breach any data protection rules by using 
a supervision program for online exams. Later in February, the 
Danish SA handled a case where it decided that the controller 
Medical  Services  was  not  breaching  any  rules  by  recording 
telephone  conversations,  but  it  should  have  not  kept  the 
recordings for too long. The controller was ordered to delete 
all recordings that are more than five years old.

In  March,  the  controller  Statens  Serum  Institut  (SSI)  was 
sanctioned with serious criticism for its COVID-19 modelling 
project. In particular, the Danish SA critiqued SSI for initiating 
the  processing  of  personal  data  without  adequate  risk 
assessment, 
impact  assessment,  consultation  with  the 
Danish SA, data processor agreements and appropriate safety 
measures.

June, 

the  Danish  SA 

In 
reported  Nordbornholms 
Byggeforretning ApS to the police and recommended a fine 
of approximately EUR 54,000 due to the controller’s unlawful 
disclosure of information about criminal offences of a former 
employee.  In  July,  the  Danish  SA  reported  Medicals  Nordic 
I/S to the police and proposed a fine of approximately EUR 
80,000  for  treating  confidential  and  health  information 
about  citizens  in  connection  with  COVID-19  tests,  without 
establishing the necessary security for the processing of the 
data.  Additionally,  upon  investigation,  it  was  assessed  that 
the  infringements  were  committed  intentionally  since  the 
controller had not carried out the necessary risk assessments 
in connection with the processing.

In  August,  the  Danish  SA  reported  the  Danish  Immigration 
Service to the police and proposed a fine of approximately 
EUR  20,000  for  failing  to  meet  the  requirements  for  an 
adequate level of security as per the GDPR.

In  September,  the  Danish  SA  expressed  serious  criticism 
against  the  municipality  of  Helsingør  for  its  processing  of 
personal  data  that  used  a  complex  technology  in  which 
the  data  subjects  were  children  and  youth,  with  parts  of 
the  processing  showing  a  lack  of  legal  basis.  Moreover, 
the  municipality  could  not  demonstrate  possession  of 
necessary  documentation  related  to  the  processing,  nor 
took any adequate organisational and technical measures to 
ensure  the  necessary  level  of  security.  In  the  same month, 
the  SA  reported  Kræftens  Bekæmpelse  to  the  police  and 
recommended a fine of approximately EUR 108,000 for the 
repeated problems with insufficient protection of health data 
of, among others, cancer patients’ health information.

6.2.1.7. 

Estonia

On 30 July, the Estonian SA issued a precept with a penalty 
payment  of  EUR  20,000  (per  point  previously  set  out)  on 
the  controller  Register  OÜ.  It  requested  the  controller  to 
terminate the processing of the data of natural persons on 
two  websites  until  it  meets  the  necessary  data  protection 
requirements.

On 5 August, the Estonian SA issued a reprimand to AS A&P 
Mets  for  the  unlawful  data  processing  which  constituted  a 
violation of the requirements of the GDPR and the Electronic 
Communications Act. The SA further noted that if the unlawful 
data  processing  continues,  the  SA  has  the  possibility  to 
consider imposing a penalty payment as previously indicated 
to the controller.

7070

EDPB Annual Report 20216.2.1.8. 

Finland

6.2.1.9. 

France

In  this  section,  four  cases  from  the  Finnish  SA’s  work  in 
connection to data protection violations will be presented.

The  Finnish  SA  handled  a  case  concerning  data  protection 
violations connected to parking control fees. The SA issued 
a  reprimand  to  the  controller  ParkkiPate  for  processing 
personal data in violation of the GDPR and ordered it to act 
in  compliance  with  the  law.  In  addition,  the  controller  was 
issued a fine of EUR 75,000 by the sanctions board.

On the basis of GDPR infringements, the SA’s sanctions board 
imposed a fine of EUR 8,500 on a controller for carrying out 
direct marketing with robocalls without the consent of the call 
recipients.  The  Finnish  SA  decided  to  permanently  prohibit 
the  controller  from  processing  the  personal  data,  gathered 
based on unlawful consent, for direct marketing.

The sanctions board of the Finnish SA issued a fine of EUR 
25,000  on  the  controller  for  data  protection  violations 
connected to the processing of location data of employees. The 
employees doing remote work were required to record their 
working hours in a mobile application that required allowing 
the use of location data. The SA issued a processing ban on 
the controller, covering all processing related to location data 
being or having been collected with the application.

The  Finnish  SA  reprimanded  the  National  Police  Board  for 
illegal processing of special categories of personal data with 
facial  recognition  software  (Clearview  AI).  Apart  from  the 
reprimand, the National Police Board was ordered to notify 
the data subjects of the personal data breach insofar as their 
identity could be determined, but to also request from the 
Clearview AI service the erasure of the data transmitted by 
the police from its storage platforms.

7171

France handled a number of cases in 2021 where it issued 
significantly large fines. A selection of cases is presented in 
this section.On 11 January, the restricted committee of the 
French  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  75,000 on  the  controller, 
a  company  specialized  in  the  development  of  IT  solutions 
for  independent  food  retailers.  The  French  SA  noted  the 
controller’s  inadequacy  in  taking  actions  considering  the 
increase of website attacks and the lack of implementation of 
intermediate measures that could have limited the risk of new 
data breaches. The SA further emphasised the ineffectiveness 
of the developed anti-robot tool and observed the possibility 
that  all  user  accounts  were  exposed  to  attacks  over  a  long 
period of time.

On  20  July,  the  controller  SGAM  AG2R  LA  MONDIALE  was 
fined EUR 1,750,000 for processing operations that violated 
Art. 5(1)(e), Art. 13 and Art. 14 GDPR. The controller was in 
breach of Art. 5(1)(e) GDPR since it had not implemented the 
data retention periods it had defined. The violation of Arts. 
13 and 14 GDPR was established based on the non-disclosure 
of the information regarding the recording of telephone calls 
and the right to object to being recorded. In addition, the lack 
of provided information of other data subjects’ rights did not 
allow access to more comprehensive information.

On 26 July, the French SA’s restricted committee imposed a 
fine of EUR 400,000 on MONSANTO for the disregard of its 
obligations under Art. 14 GDPR in terms of information and Art. 
28 GDPR in terms of a contractual framework with a processor. 
In relation to Art. 14 GDPR, the French SA considered that the 
creation of contact files by lobbyists for lobbying purposes is 
not, in itself, illegal. However, the individuals who were listed 
on such file should have been informed of the existence of the 
file and consequently, allowed to exercise their right to object 
to such listing. With respect to Art. 28 GDPR, MONSANTO, as 
data controller, should have governed the processing carried 

EDPB Annual Report 2021out on its behalf by its data processor by a legal act, especially 
by providing guarantees regarding data security.

On 29 October, the French SA issued a fine of EUR 400,000 
on  the  controller  RATP.  The  SA  concluded  the  existence  of 
a violation of Art. 5(1)(c) and (2) GDPR for the unnecessary 
data collection on strike days exercised by bus centre agents 
who  were  up  for  promotion.  RATP  had  also  breached  Art. 
5(1)(e) GDPR by failing to limit the duration of storing certain 
data of staff members, but it has managed to take necessary 
measures during the proceedings of the case to address this 
issue. The SA also found that the controller violated Art. 32 
GDPR by not implementing appropriate security measures for 
data processing that can prevent any misuse of the data and 
guarantee confidentiality. 

6.2.1.10.  Germany

Germany has both a national (federal) SA and regional SAs. 
In 2021, an important case was dealt with by the Hamburg 
SA  in  which  a  fine  of  EUR  901,388.84  was  imposed  on  the 
controller Vattenfall Europe Sales GmbH. The SA concluded 
that  the  controller  breached  its  transparency  obligations 
under  Arts.  12  and  13  GDPR  since  it  did  not  sufficiently 
inform  the  customers  about  the  data  comparison.  Overall, 
this affected approximately 500,000 people. The SA further 
noted that the fine does not affect the question regarding the 
permissibility of comparison, which is not clearly regulated in 
the GDPR or any other legislation.

6.2.1.11.  Greece

In  a  national  case  before  the  Ηellenic  SA,  a  sports  trading 
company was fined EUR 20,000 for not erasing a complainant’s 
phone  number,  although  being  requested  to  do  so.  This 
constituted a violation of Art. 17 GDPR in conjunction with 
Art. 21(3), Art. 12(3) and Art. 25(1) GDPR since the controller 
infringed on the data subject’s right to erasure and did not 
ensure a correct procedure of ex-post fulfilment of that right.

The Hellenic SA issued a fine of EUR 15,000 to a company for 
illegally installing and operating a video surveillance system 
in the employees’ offices and the kitchen of the workplace 
in breach of Art. 5(1)(a) and (2) GDPR. The company was also 
ordered  to  uninstall  the  cameras  and  delete  any  collected 
material.

An educational centre was issued two fines by the Hellenic SA 
for data protection violations. First, it imposed a fine of EUR 
3,000 for a failure to satisfy the father’s right of access to data 
of his minor child. Later on, the educational centre was fined 
an additional EUR 5,000 for non-compliance with the order 
of the Authority to satisfy the complainant’s right of access.

In  another  case,  the  Hellenic  SA  issued  two  fines  to  the 
controller  Municipal  Transportation  Company  for  breaching 
data  protection  rules.  It  fined  the  controller  EUR  5,000  for 
breaching  Art.  12(3)  and  Art.  15  GDPR  by  not  fulfilling  the 
complainant’s  right  of  access  to  a  copy  of  recorded  video 
material. The second fine amounted to EUR 3,000 as a result of 
infringement on the principle of proportionality, guaranteed 
under  Art.  5(1)(c)  GDPR,  when  the  controller  provided  the 
complainant  with  the  service  certificate  he  requested  after 
his dismissal from the company, but added therein that the 
complainant was fired as a result of a criminal offence.

7272

EDPB Annual Report 20216.2.1.12.  Hungary

This section sets out seven pertinent instances in which the 
Hungarian SA imposed numerous fines for violations of data 
protection law.

On  29  September  2020,  the  Hungarian  SA  handled  a  case 
concerning  sound  recordings  of  customers  at  a  controller’s 
Customer Service Office. The controller argued that it informed 
its customers about the sound recordings through the number 
allocation  system,  in  the  general  information  accessible  on 
its website and the Privacy Statement constituting an annex 
to  its  General  Terms  and  Conditions  of  Contract.  The  SA 
concluded  that  the  company  did  not  have  an  appropriate 
legal basis for recording its customers and failed to take into 
consideration the customers’ right to object. It further noted 
that in light of the absence of identification and clarity, the 
sound recording by the controller failed to comply with the 
principle of purpose limitation. The SA also found a breach 
of the principle of data minimisation since recordings were 
conducted  throughout  the  entire  process  of  administering 
personal cases and a breach of the principle of transparency 
due to the provided information by the controller which was 
deficient and comprised of misleading statements.

On  9  December  2020,  a  controller  of  the  financial  service 
sector was fined EUR 5,448 by the Hungarian SA. The decision 
was based on an infringement of Art. 32(1) GDPR since the 
controller did not implement sufficient data security measures 
for the processing of personal financial data.

In another case on the same day, the Hungarian SA established 
violations  of  Art.  25,  Art.  32  and  Art.  34  GDPR  by  a  travel 
agency since it  had  entrusted the design  of  the website to 
an  inadequate  data  processor,  could  not  guarantee  the 
security of the personal data processed and did not inform 
the data subjects about a high-risk data breach. In addition, 
the  processor  also  violated  Art.  32  GDPR  since  it  failed  to 

7373

implement  appropriate  security  checks  on  the  website  and 
acted with a high degree of negligence towards the website’s 
development.  Consequently,  the  controller  was  fined  EUR 
55,000 and the processor was fined EUR 1,375.

On  16  December  2020,  the  Hungarian  SA  issued  a  fine  of 
EUR 98,600 on the controller, a bank, for breaching Art. 5(1)
(c), Art. 6, Art. 9 and Art. 12(1) GDPR. The SA found that the 
bank, when processing copies of pregnancy care books, has 
processed some personal and special category personal data 
that  was  neither  suitable,  nor  necessary  for  the  purpose 
of  the  processing.  The  bank  also  did  not  have  any  legal 
basis for processing part of the data and it failed to provide 
unambiguous and transparent information on the processing 
of the personal data included in the copies of the pregnancy 
care books. Apart from the issued fine, the SA order the bank 
to annihilate the copies of the pregnancy care books and to 
transform the information provided on its processing.

On 24 March 2021, the Hungarian SA concluded the existence 
of several data protection violations by the Budapest Capitol’s 
Government Office’s XI. District Office. The infringement of 
Art. 32(1)(a), (b) and (2) GDPR was based on the insufficient 
application  of  data  security  measures  by  the  controller 
regarding the transfer of medical data, which resulted in the 
possibility of causing a high-risk data breach. The controller 
violated Art. 33(1) GDPR when it did not consider it necessary 
to report the high-risk personal data breach to the Hungarian 
SA since it did not carry out the risk analysis properly. The 
violation  of  Art.  34(1)  GDPR  occurred  since  the  controller 
did not communicate the high-risk data breach to the data 
subjects.  A  fine  of  HUF  10,000,000  (approximately  EUR 
28,000) was imposed on the controller.

On 18 June 2021, the Hungarian SA imposed a fine of EUR 
13,705  and  ordered  the  erasure  of  the  data  processed  to 
an  electronic  media  content  service  provider  for  multiple 
GDPR  infringements.  In  this  case,  the  controller  published 

EDPB Annual Report 2021personal and health data of a minor, making him identifiable, 
although that was not necessary for achieving the purpose of 
broadcasting news. Furthermore, the controller published the 
data without any legal basis since it did not acquire consent 
and  it  disregarded  the  preliminary  objection  of  providing 
consent  by  the  data  subject’s  relative.  The  SA  also  found 
that the controller acted contrary to the principle of fair data 
processing by broadcasting news about a data subject who 
was physically incapacitated and therefore unable to express 
intent to consent or object to such processing.

On  27  October  2021,  the  Hungarian  SA  handled  a  case  in 
which the data subject was not informed by the controller or 
processor of the data processing. In addition, the SA concluded 
that the processor did not have any legal basis for processing 
data that fell outside the scope of essential data for complaint 
management purposes. Consequently, the SA determined the 
existence of numerous violations of the GDPR, imposed a fine 
and requested a modification of the data processing.

6.2.1.13. 

Iceland

The Icelandic SA dealt with a number of cases, with some of 
them focusing on COVID-19.

On 15 June, the Icelandic SA issued a fine of EUR 34,000 on 
the  controller  Huppuís  ehf.,  a  company  running  ice  cream 
parlours. The SA found that the processing of the employee’s 
personal  data  via  video  surveillance  camera  installed  in 
an  employee  area  was  not  lawful,  fair  or  transparent,  nor 
adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  was  necessary  in 
relation to the purposes for which the data was processed.

the GDPR requirements. Nevertheless, the SA established that 
nothing indicated non-compliance with the GDPR in relation 
to the security of personal data processed on the premises of 
Decode Genetics.

On the same day, 23 November, the Icelandic SA also decided 
on  another  case  involving  the  same  actors,  the  National 
University  Hospital  of  Iceland  and  the  company  Decode 
Genetics. In this case, the SA determined that the processing 
of  personal  data  by  the  two  actors  was  not  in  compliance 
with the GDPR due to a lack of approval from the National 
Bioethics Committee. However, bearing in mind the urgency 
and importance of the work surrounding COVID-19, the SA 
decided not to issue fines in this case.

The Icelandic SA handled a third case revolving around the 
same actors on 23 November. In this case, the controller was 
the National Chief Epidemiologist who was ordered to update 
the  processing  agreement  with  the  National  University 
Hospital of Iceland so that the agreement would be in line 
with Art. 28 GDPR. Comparable to the previous case, in this 
case the SA also did not issue fines in light of the urgency and 
importance of the work surrounding COVID-19.

One  day  after,  on  24  November,  the  Icelandic  SA  imposed 
a  fine  of  ISK  7,500,000  (approximately  EUR  50,800)  on  the 
controller,  the  Ministry  of  Industries  and  Innovation  of 
Iceland, and imposed a fine of ISK 4,000,000 (approximately 
EUR 27,100) on the processor, the company YAY ehf. The case 
revolved  around  a  digital  gift  card  app  that  unlawfully  and 
unnecessarily collected substantial amounts of personal data 
and acquired access rights to the user’s mobile devices. 

On  23  November,  the  Icelandic  SA  concluded  that  the 
conducted  data  protection 
(DPIA) 
concerning the move of the microbiology department of the 
controller, the National University Hospital of Iceland, to the 
sub-processor, the company Decode Genetics, did not fulfil 

impact  assessment 

The  SA  determined  that  consent  was  given  by  the  app 
users  and  there  was  a  lack  of  information  transparency.  In 
addition, the controller and the processor had not ensured 
the appropriate security of the personal data, had not made 
a  processing  agreement  and  had  not  implemented  data 

7474

EDPB Annual Report 20216.2.1.15. 

Italy

In  January,  the  Italian  SA  concluded  various  violations  by 
TikTok  in  relation  to  poor  attention  to  the  protection  of 
minors  on  account  of  the  easy  circumvention  of  its  age 
gating  mechanism,  the  distribution  of  unclear  information 
to  users  and  the  poor  adherence  to  privacy  requirements 
by  the  application’s  default  settings.  TikTok  was  ordered 
to  implement  appropriate  access  limitation  measures  for 
minors (below the age of 14) and was prohibited from further 
processing personal data of users whose age can’t be verified.

In  February,  a  case  concerning  data  of  applications  for  a 
COVID-related bonus was handled by the Italian SA in which 
a EUR 300,000 fine was issued to the National social security 
agency (INPS). The SA concluded that the processing by INPS 
was unlawful. INPS was ordered to erase unnecessary data 
and carry out an appropriate DPIA.

In April, the Italian SA did not issue a favourable opinion on 
the  use  of  facial  recognition  technology  through  the  SARI 
Real  Time  system  to  support  law  enforcement  activities  of 
the  controller,  the  Italian  Ministry  of  the  Interior.  The  SA 
concluded a lack of legal basis to legitimise the automated 
processing of biometric data for facial recognition in security 
applications,  particularly  because  it  will  enable  a  mass/
blanket surveillance.

In  June,  the  Italian  SA  issued  several  corrective  measures 
and  a  fine  of  EUR  2,600,000  on  the  controller  Foodinho 
s.r.l. for several infringements of the GPDR and national law 
provisions. The corrective measures focused on issues such 
as transparency, data processing, DPIA, data storage, fairness 
and accuracy of an algorithm that avoids discrimination, data 
minimisation, employment and work surveillance. 

protection by design and by default that could have ensured 
data minimisation.

6.2.1.14. 

Ireland

The Irish SA, on its own volition, started an inquiry into the 
Department  of  Employment  Affairs  and  Social  Protection 
after  receiving  a  complaint  from  Digital  Rights  Ireland.  The 
SA concluded no infringement of Art. 38(1) GDPR since the 
Department  involved  their  DPO  properly  and  in  a  timely 
manner  in  the  Department’s  amendment  of  its  Privacy 
Statement. No violation of Art. 38(3) GDPR was either found 
because the Department did not provide any instructions to 
the DPO regarding the exercise of their tasks contrary to the 
GDPR.

The Irish SA imposed a fine of EUR 90,000 on the controller, 
the Irish Credit Bureau DAC (ICB). The ICB violated Art. 25(1) 
GDPR  by  failing  to  implement  appropriate  technical  and 
organisational measures designed to implement the principle 
of  accuracy  effectively  and  to 
integrate  the  necessary 
safeguards  into  the  processing.  A  violation  of  Art.  5(2)  and 
Art. 24(1) GDPR was also established for the ICB’s failure to 
demonstrate  compliance  with  its  obligation  to  undertake 
appropriate  testing  of  proposed  changes  to  its  database. 
The ICB was issued a reprimand as a result of the committed 
violations.

In another case, The Irish SA reprimanded and imposed a fine 
of  EUR  1,500  to  the  controller,  Men  Overcoming  Violence 
(MOVE) for infringing upon Art. 5(1)(f) and Art. 32(1) GDPR. 
The SA decided that MOVE failed to implement appropriate 
technical  and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  a  level  of 
security appropriate to the risk presented by its processing 
by means of recording group sessions on SD Cards containing 
participants’  and  facilitators’  personal  data.  The  controller 
was ordered to bring its processing into GDPR compliance.

7575

EDPB Annual Report 2021In  the  same  month,  the  Italian  SA  determined  that  the 
configuration of the ‘IO’ application of the controller PagoPA 
Spa, infringed on the GDPR. The controller made commitments 
to minimise the excessive data collection and transfer to third 
countries and to implement corrective measures that would 
remedy  the  infringements  found.  As  a  consequence,  the 
Italian SA decided to lift the previously imposed temporary 
limitation on the processing of personal data via the ‘IO’ app.

In  July,  the  Italian  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  2,500,000  on 
the controller Deliveroo Italy s.r.l. for the poor transparency 
in  using  algorithms  and  the  disproportionate  collection  of 
employees’  data.  The  SA  also  issued  numerous  corrective 
measures concerning issues such as transparency, processing 
records,  DPIA,  data  storage,  data  safeguards,  fundamental 
freedoms and legitimate interests, fairness and accuracy of 
an  algorithm  that  avoids  discrimination,  data  minimisation, 
employment and work surveillance. 

Later in September, the Italian SA reprimanded a real estate 
agency  for  exchanging  information  with  a  data  subject  on 
LinkedIn that was contrary to the platform’s Terms of Service. 
The  SA  determined  that  the  processing  was  unlawful  and 
ordered the real estate agency to take suitable organisational 
measures. Nonetheless, the SA imposed a fine of EUR 5,000 
on the controller for its failure to reply to the SA’s repeated 
requests for information.

In the same month, the Italian SA ordered Sky Italia to pay a 
fine of over EUR 3,200,000 and banned any further processing 
for  promotional  purposes  of  telephone  subscribers’  data 
the  company  had  obtained  from  other  entities.  Sky  Italia 
was also ordered to make a certified email account that will 
facilitate opt-out requests by data subjects and to appoint all 
the entities that perform promotional activities on its behalf 
as data processors whilst Sky, as a controller, supervises the 
activities of the processors and verify the proper management 
of users’ information. Interestingly, the Italian SA noted that 

the calculation of the fine took into account the gravity of the 
violations that were grounded in “systematic” practices at a 
corporate level.

6.2.1.16.  Latvia

On 14 January, the Latvian SA impose a fine of EUR 65,000 on 
a data re-user for ensuring public access to data even after 
the  applicable  regulatory  enactments  required  to  restrict 
access to such data.

On 14 May, the Latvian SA issued a fine of EUR 100,000 against 
an online retailer that carried out processing of personal data 
to identify a natural person without legal basis. The controller 
was ordered to delete the personal data – copies of imagines 
of user’s documents – from its website. The decision has been 
appealed and is still pending.

6.2.1.17.  Liechtenstein

A private insurance company was found in violation of Art. 
6(1)(a), Art. 7 and Art. 13 GDPR for unlawfully obtaining and 
processing personal data of data subjects. The company was 
banned from processing the data and was ordered to erase 
the collected data.

A Swiss company, acting as a controller, was ordered to erase 
personal data consisting of unlawfully recorded phone calls 
in Liechtenstein. Even though the controller is established in 
Switzerland,  the  SA  concluded  an  infringement  of  Art.  6(1) 
GDPR since no consent was obtained from the EEA nationals.

6.2.1.18.  Lithuania

The  Lithuanian  SA  handled  a  number  of  cases  in  2021.  A 
selection of those cases is presented in this section.

7676

EDPB Annual Report 2021Upon a conducted investigation, the Lithuanian SA imposed 
a  fine  of  EUR  12,000  to  the  National  Public  Health  Centre 
(NPHC)  and  a  fine  of  EUR  3,000  to  the  developer  of  the 
application UAB “IT sprendimai sėkmei” (the Company). The 
two entities acted as joint controllers who processed personal 
data intentionally, to a large extent, illegally, systematically, 
without  providing  technical  and  organisational  means  to 
demonstrate  GDPR  compliancy  while  conducting  such 
processing, and they also processed special category personal 
data. 

The Lithuanian SA issued a fine of EUR 15,000 to the State 
Enterprise Centre of Registers for infringements of Art. 32(1)
(b) and (c) GDPR. The controller in this case failed to ensure 
the ongoing integrity, availability and resilience of processing 
systems and services, but also failed to restore the availability 
and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of 
a physical or technical incident.

A case before the Lithuanian SA concerned the processing of 
biometric personal data in a sports club that resulted in a EUR 
20,000 fine for the controller, VS FITNESS UAB. The controller 
was  deemed  in  violation  of  numerous  GDPR  provisions  for 
processing biometric data without the voluntary consent of 
the data subjects and its failure to ensure other requirements 
for the valid consent, the unsuitable implementation of the 
data  subjects’  right  to  be  informed  of  data  processing,  the 
failure to  maintain  records  of  activities  and  not  conducting 
a DPIA.

One  of  the  cross-border  cases  before  the  Lithuanian  SA 
involved the company Prime Leasing UAB, an operator of the 
short-term  car  rental  platform  CityBee,  that  was  fined  EUR 
110,000  for  breach  of  Art.  32(1)(a),  (b)  and  (d)  GDPR.  The 
violation was mainly grounded on the fact that the company 
did not ensure the security of the processing of personal data 
of data subjects.

7777

6.2.1.19.  The Netherlands

In 2020 and 2021, the Dutch SA imposed multiple fines for 
GDPR violations. Most of the fines were imposed because of 
serious breaches of data subjects’ rights. Selected cases are 
listed here:
• 

In  March  2020,  the  maintenance  company  CP&A  B.V. 
was  fined  EUR  15,000  for  violations  committed  when 
processing  the  health  data  of  sick  employees.  The 
company maintained a register of the causes of sick leave, 
which resulted in processing more health data than legally 
permitted. Moreover, this register was accessible online 
and  not  adequately  secured.  CP&A  has  now  ended  this 
practice;

• 

• 

• 

• 

In June 2020, the Dutch SA fined PVV Overijssel an amount 
of  EUR  7,500  for  failing  to  report  a  data  breach  to  the 
SA within the applicable time limit – within 72 hours of 
becoming aware of the data breach;

In November 2020, the Dutch SA determined a fine of EUR 
440,000  for  the  Amsterdam-based  hospital  OLVG  for  its 
inadequate  protection  of  patients’  medical  records.  The 
SA  established  that  OLVG  did  not  implement  sufficient 
safeguards to prevent unauthorised access to the records, 
it did not carry out proper checks of who accessed which 
records and did not address problems pertaining to the 
information systems security. Consequently, OLVG worked 
on the required improvements;

In March 2021, the Dutch SA issued a fine of EUR 600,000 
to the municipality of Enschede for using Wi-Fi tracking 
in  the  city  centre  in  a  way  that  is  prohibited.  Following 
the intervention by the SA, the municipality stopped such 
data tracking on 1 May 2020;

In April 2021, the Dutch SA imposed a fine of EUR 750,000 
on TikTok for infringing on young children’s privacy. TikTok 
lodged an objection to the fine. During the course of the 
investigation,  TikTok  established  operations  in  Ireland. 

EDPB Annual Report 2021As a result, the Dutch SA transferred other results of the 
investigation to the Irish SA, which will proceed with the 
investigation on TikTok’s processing operations;

•  A  month  later,  in  May,  the  Dutch  SA  imposed  a  EUR 
450,000 fine on the Employee Insurance Agency (UWV) 
for the poor security when sending group messages via 
the  “Mijn  Werkmap”  section  of  its  website,  a  personal 
environment  in  which  job  seekers  can  interact  with  the 
UWV.  The  website  has  suffered  multiple  data  breaches 
that  involved  personal  and  health  data  of  more  than 
15,000 data subjects;

• 

• 

In June 2021, the Dutch SA issued a fine of EUR 12,000 
to  an  orthodontic  practice  for  allowing  new  patients  to 
register  on  an  unsecured  website.  This  could  have  led 
to an unwanted third-party breach of patients’ sensitive 
personal data, such as their citizen service number;

In December 2021, the Dutch SA imposed a EUR 2,750,000 
fine  on  the  Dutch  Tax  Administration  because  for  many 
years it processed data on the dual nationality of childcare 
benefit  applicants  in  an  unlawful,  discriminatory  and 
improper manner.

6.2.1.20.  Norway

The  Norwegian  SA  issued  multiple  fines  in  2021.  The 
Norwegian SA carried out the following actions:
• 

Imposed a fine of EUR 15,000 on the controller Dragefossen 
AS for live streaming CCTV surveillance recordings of data 
subjects that were in no way, personally or their activities, 
connected to the controller;

• 

Issued  a  fine  of  approximately  EUR  500,000  to  the 
Norwegian toll company Ferde AS for failing to establish a 
data processing agreement, to carry out a risk assessment 
and its lack of legal basis for the processing of personal 
data about motorists in China;

• 

• 

Imposed a fine of EUR 100,000 to the controller Innovation 
Norway for lacking a legal basis of processing personal and 
financial data in relation to credit rating;

Imposed a fine of EUR 125,000 to the controller Norwegian 
Confederation  of  Sport  for  inadequate  testing  involving 
personal data. The controller did not have a legal basis for 
processing the data and overall breached the principles of 
legality, data minimisation and confidentiality;

•  Ordered the company Cyberbook AS to implement written 
procedures for access to the email inboxes of employees 
and former employees, but also imposed a EUR 20,000 fine 
for the unlawful automated forwarding of the employee’s 
personal email address to the company;

•  Ordered  the  Oslo  University  Hospital  to  amend  data 
processing agreements and therefore ensure the correct 

• 

handling  of  the  hospital’s  duties  and  the  protection  of 
patients’ rights;

Issued  a  fine  of  approximately  EUR  6,500,000  to  Grindr 
LLC for disclosing user data to third parties for behavioural 
advertisement  without  a  legal  basis.  The  SA  concluded 
that  the  purported  consents  that  were  collected  for 
sharing personal data with advertising partners were not 
valid. Furthermore, Grindr failed to properly communicate 
the sharing of personal data to its users. Notably, the SA 
considered that the sensitive nature of the shared data – 
belonging to a sexual minority – makes the data a special 
category data that merits particular protection under the 
GDPR.

6.2.1.21.  Poland

The Polish SA handled  several cases in  2021. One violation 
that was consistently addressed by the SA was the controllers’ 
failure to notify personal data breaches to the SA. This can be 
observed in some of the cases presented in this section. 

7878

EDPB Annual Report 2021On 11 January, the Polish SA imposed a EUR 30,000 fine on 
the controller ENEA S.A. for failing to notify a personal data 
breach once personal data has been accidentally shared with 
an unauthorised recipient of such data. The breach consisted 
of  a  shared  email  that  had  an  unencrypted,  non-password 
protected  attachment  containing  personal  data  of  several 
hundred people.

On  11  February,  the  Polish  SA  issued  a  fine  of  EUR  22,000 
to  the  National  School  of  Judiciary  and  Public  Prosecution 
(KSSIP) for failing to fulfil its obligations as a controller. While 
the processor was found to be in compliance with the GDPR 
rules,  the  controller  breached  the  confidentiality  of  data 
subjects by failing to conduct an analysis of whether it was 
exposing personal data stored in a database that was shared 
with the processor.

On 19 March, the Polish SA issued a fine of EUR 5,000 to the 
company Funeda Sp. z o.o. for its failure to cooperate with 
the SA, in particular the impediment of access to necessary 
information.

On  22  April,  the  controller  Cyfrowy  Polsat  S.A.  was  fined 
EUR  250,000  for  the  lack  of  implementation  of  adequate 
organizational  and  technical  measures  for  detecting  data 
breaches that should result in the prompt notification to data 
subject of the risk associated with potential identity theft.

A few days later, on 27 April, the company PNP S.A. was fined 
EUR 5,000 for violating its obligation of providing access to 
information to the Polish SA, especially information that was 
necessary to address the merits of the case.

On 8 June, the Polish SA imposed a fine of EUR 22,000 on 
the controller P4 Sp. z o.o. for its failure to notify the SA of 
personal  data  breaches.  The  controller  did  not  manage  to 
meet the notification deadline due to employees’ errors when 
dispatching data breach notifications to data subjects through 

7979

postal service – a method of notification that was persistently 
held on to by the controller, although having the opportunity 
to dispatch electronic notifications.

On 21 June, the Polish SA imposed a fine of EUR 35 000 on 
the company ERGO Hestia S.A. for failing to notify the SA of a 
security breach when personal data was made available to an 
unauthorised recipient that was considered to be untrusted.

On 14 October, the bank Millennium was fined EUR 80,000 for 
its failure to notify a personal data breach to the SA and also 
for not communicating it to the data subjects. Consequently, 
in  line  with  Art.  34(2)  GDPR,  the  bank  was  ordered  to 
communicate the data breach to the persons affected by it.

6.2.1.22.  Romania

In  October,  the  Romanian  SA  issued  a  reprimand  and 
remediation measures against Cluj-Napoca City for violation 
of Art. 15(3) and Art. 12(3) and (4) GDPR. The remediation 
measures consisted of implementing an internal procedure for 
processing requests submitted by data subjects based on the 
GDPR, the observance of the applicable provisions regarding 
the assessment and handling without delay of these requests 
and communication of answers to the data subjects within 
the  legal  deadlines,  but  also  conducting  regular  personnel 
training in relation to this.

In  April,  the  controller  World  Class  România  S.A.  was 
sanctioned with a EUR 2,000 fine for the violation of Art. 32 
GDPR concerning the insufficient security of the processing of 
personal data. Additionally, the SA issued a corrective measure 
that  ordered  the  controller  to  ensure  GDPR  compliance 
of  the  processing  (within  30  days  of  communicating  the 
SA’s  decision)  by  implementing  appropriate  technical  and 
organisational  measures  in  case  of  remote  transmission  of 
the  personal  data,  but  also  to  conduct  regular  personnel 
training in respect to this.

EDPB Annual Report 2021In  the  same  month,  the  controller  Telekom  Romania 
Communications S.A. was reprimanded for violation of Art. 6 
GDPR since it processed personal data for marketing purposes 
without a legal basis. The controller was also fined EUR 2,000 
for violation of Art. 21 GDPR since it had contacted by phone 
a  data  subject,  who  had  previously  exercised  their  right  to 
object.

Later  in  October,  the  Romanian  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR 
1,000 on the controller IKEA ROMÂNIA SA for infringing on 
Art. 32(1)(b) and (2) GDPR when a data breach occurred that 
resulted in compromising the data confidentiality of 114 Ikea 
Family members.

In  November,  the  Romanian  SA  took  several  corrective 
measures  against  UAT  Municipiul  Constanța  for  possible 
breach of the data minimisation principle, guaranteed under 
Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR. The measures consisted of a reprimand for 
violating  Art.  5(1)(c)  GDPR  and  an  order  to  take  necessary 
measures  to  observe  the  data  minimisation  principle  in 
relation  to  issuance  of  car  access  permits  for  its  residents, 
including  through  the  amendment  of  the  Local  Council 
Decision regarding this processing.

6.2.1.23.  Slovenia

The  Slovenian  SA  handled  several  cases  in  2020  and  2021. 
A  few  cases  of  particular  importance  are  presented  in  this 
section.

The  controller  National  Institute  of  Public  Health  was 
ordered  to  provide  clear,  accurate  and  reliable  information 
on registration for vaccination per Art. 13 GDPR. As a result, 
the controller informed the data subjects about its function 
as a data controller, the purpose of data processing, the legal 
basis, the storage period and the data subject rights.

The  Slovenian  SA  determined  that  a  controller  unlawfully 
monitored  work  areas  through  video  surveillance.  As  a 
result, the controller was ordered to remove the surveillance 
cameras, with a few exceptions (e.g., the warehouse). The SA 
also found that the controller failed to ensure traceability of 
the data processing since it did not keep data records.

The Slovenian SA dismissed a complaint of a data subject that 
requested the erasure of his personal information from the 
Baptismal Register of a parish of the Roman Catholic Church. 
The SA concluded that the right to erasure, guaranteed under 
Art.  17  GDPR,  does  not  enable  an  individual  to  have  their 
personal  data  erased  from  the  register.  The  complainant 
challenged  the  decision  before  the  national  justice  system, 
but nonetheless, the Slovenian Administrative Court upheld 
the decision of the SA.

The Slovenian SA decided to dismiss a complaint of a patient 
to rectify a medical report. The SA elaborated that this right 
enables data subjects to rectify data that is not accurate, while 
that was not  the situation  in  the case at hand.  Concerning 
the  principle  of  accuracy,  the  SA  stated  that  the  controller 
is  processing  accurate  personal  data  of  the  individual, 
particularly considering the amendment of the initial medical 
report  that  contains  additional  text,  while  not  deleting 
previously written text.

A decision of the Slovenian SA determined that a restaurant 
is  not  allowed  to  monitor  the  movements  of  individuals 
across  the  restaurant  through  video  surveillance.  The  SA 
stressed  that  the  safety  in  the  restaurant  can  be  achieved 
by less privacy intrusive measures, such as monitoring only 
specific areas like the cash register and the entry. In addition, 
the  SA  emphasised  that  the  video  surveillance  should  not 
be managed by the work supervisors, but rather by security 
officers.

8080

EDPB Annual Report 2021A series of cases concerning positive infections of the COVID-19 
virus  resulted  in  infringements  of  various  GDPR  rules.  The 
Slovenian SA found that one state authority violated Art. 5(1)
(c) GDPR when informing other employees about co-workers 
who tested positive to the COVID-19 virus. Moreover, in all 
three cases, the controller did not inform the employees, who 
were COVID-19 positive, about the processing of their data, 
which resulted in the violation of Art. 13 GDPR. In one of the 
cases, the state authority was issued a fine of EUR 830 and 
an administration fee in the amount of EUR 83 for processing 
personal  data  of  an  employee  without  their  consent  or 
determination for such processing.

6.2.1.24.  Spain

The Spanish SA issued a number of comparable fines in late 
2020 and throughout 2021. The Spanish SA carried out these 
actions:
• 

Imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  500,00  on  the  controller  EDP 
ENERGIA, S.A.U. for violating Art. 25 GDPR by not adopting 
appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  for 
processing  personal  data.  The  controller  was  also  fined 
EUR 1,000,000 for violating Art. 13 GDPR since it did not 
adequately provide information to data subjects;

• 

Issued multiple fines that together amount to more than 
EUR 8,000,000 (highest fine amount issued by the SA) to 
the  controller  Vodafone  España,  S.A.U.  In  particular,  it 
imposed a fine of EUR 4,000,000 for infringement of Art. 
28 GDPR, a fine of EUR 2,000,000 for infringement of Art. 
44 GDPR and two fines in the amount of EUR 2,000,000 and 
EUR 150,000 for violation of two national laws – General 
Telecommunications Law and Electronic Commerce Law. 
Apart from this, the SA also order the controller to bring 
its  processing  operations  into  compliance  with  Art.  17, 
Art. 21, Art. 24, Art. 28 and Art. 44 to Art. 49 GDPR within 
six months of the adoption of the decision;

• 

• 

Imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  2,520,000  on  MERCADONA,  S.A. 
for the use of a non-legitimised facial recognition system 
in  supermarkets,  as  well  as  for  lack  of  transparency, 
excessive use of personal data, lack of privacy by design 
and poor impact assessment;

Issued to the controller EDP ENERGÍA, S.A.U. a fine of EUR 
500,000 for violation of Art. 25 GDPR and a fine of EUR 
1,000,000 for violation of Art. 13 GDPR;

•  Decided  to  close  a  case  due  to  the  non-infringement 
of  the  GDPR.  The  SA  determined  that  medical  data  of 
patients belong to the hospital, the controller, and not to 
the doctor who treated the patients while working at the 
hospital;

• 

• 

• 

Issued a fine of EUR 1,500 to a natural person for posting 
photographs and notes of sexual content of their partner 
on a website without the consent of the partner;

Imposed  a  total  fine  of  EUR  6,000,000  on  CAIXABANK, 
S.A.,  for  unlawfully  processing  clients’  personal  data  (in 
the amount of EUR 4,000,000) and not providing sufficient 
information  regarding  the  processing  of  personal  data 
(EUR 2,000,000). Apart from the issued fine, the Spanish 
SA ordered CAIXABANK to bring its processing operations 
into  compliance  with  Art.  6,  Art.  13  and  Art.  14  GDPR 
within six months of the adoption of the decision;

Issued a fine of EUR 3,000,000 to the controller CAIXABANK 
PAYMENTS & CONSUMER EFC, EP, S.A.U. for lack of specific 
and informed consent regarding profiling for commercial 
purposes. In addition, the controller was ordered to bring 
its  processing  operations  in  compliance  with  the  GDPR 
within six months of the adoption of the decision.

6.2.1.25.  Sweden

In 2021, the Swedish SA conducted numerous enforcement 
measures  for  violations  of  the  GDPR,  some  of  which 

8181

EDPB Annual Report 2021concerned Swedish national authorities. This is illustrated in 
the cases outlined here.

clothes in order to capture only necessary information. The 
Rescue Service has stopped the camera surveillance.

On  10  February,  the  Swedish  Police  Authority  was  fined 
EUR  250,000  for  breaching  the  Criminal  Data  Act  (which 
implements  the  EU  Law  Enforcement  Directive  2016/680) 
by  using  the  biometric  data  tracking  application  Clearview 
AI  in  its  operational  activities.  The  Police  were  ordered  to 
ensure the erasure of data that was transferred to Clearview 
AI, to inform affected data subjects that their data had been 
processed by Clearview AI and to conduct personnel training 
and education in respect to avoiding similar future processing 
of personal data that is unlawful. The Police decided to appear 
the  decision,  which  is  now  to  be  settled  by  the  Swedish 
Administrative Court of Appeal.

On  7  June,  the  Swedish  SA  issued  multiple  fines  in  a  case 
concerning  the  unprotected  web  availability  of  recorded 
phone  calls  in  relation  to  medical  consultations.  The  SA 
imposed a fine of EUR 1,200,000 on the controller Medhelp 
for  its  failure  to  take  appropriate  security  measures,  for 
the  lack  of  provided  information  to  data  subjects  and  for 
breaching  certain  provisions  of  the  Swedish  health  and 
medical care legislation. The SA imposed a EUR 50,000 fine on 
Voice Integrate for failing to take appropriate and sufficient 
security measures to protect phone calls handled on behalf of 
Medhelp. In addition, the SA issued EUR 50,000 fine on three 
regional  authorities  for  not  providing  sufficient  information 
to the data subjects seeking medical care through the service. 
The decisions of the SA have been appealed and are to be 
settled by the Swedish Administrative Court of Appeal.

On 9 June, the Swedish SA issued a fine of EUR 34,000 against 
the Executive Board of the Rescue Service in Östra Skaraborg 
(Rescue Service). While the SA established  that the Rescue 
Service  has  compelling  reasons  for  its  camera  surveillance, 
it  should  limit  the  recording  to  events  when  the  alarm  is 
activated  and  should  mask  areas  where  firefighters  change 

On 21 June, the Swedish SA imposed a EUR 15,500,000 fine 
to  the  public  transport  operator  Storstockholms  Lokaltrafik 
(SL) for the infringements of Art. 5, Art. 6 and Art. 13 GDPR. 
The  SA  concluded  that  the  authority  needs  to  reduce  the 
pre-recording  time  on  the  body-worn  cameras  for  threat 
prevention to 15 seconds. It also found that the technology 
should  not  be  used  for  the  identification  of  passengers 
without  tickets  and  added  that  still  images  and  soundless 
recordings are sufficient for the purpose of threat prevention. 
The  controller  also  failed  to  adequately  inform  about  the 
camera  surveillance,  in  particular  that,  apart  from  video, 
sound was also recorded.

6.3. 

SA BUDGET AND STAFF

The  EDPB  received  a  request  from  the  Committee  on  Civil 
Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE Committee) of the 
European  Parliament  to  share  some  statistics  on  resources 
made  available  by  Member  States  to  the  SA  from  the  EEA 
and  on  enforcement  actions  by  the  SAs.  The  EDPB  already 
gathered similar information in the past in the context of a 
2019  Report  about  the  GDPR  implementation  made  at  the 
request of the LIBE Committee and the contribution of the 
GDPR evaluation made in 2020 at the request of the European 
Commission.

On 5 August 2021, the EDPB published an “Overview of the 
resources  made  available  by  Member  States  to  the  Data 
Protection  Authorities  and  on  enforcement  actions  by  the 
Data  Protection  Authorities”.  The  vast  majority  of  SAs  (22) 
explicitly stated that their allocated budget is not sufficient 
for carrying out the work activities. Based on the information 
from 29 SAs from EEA countries before August 2021, six SAs 
even faced a budgetary decrease in comparison to their 2020 
budget.

8282

EDPB Annual Report 2021In  respect  to  SAs’  human  resources,  a  vast  majority  of  SAs 
(22) underlined the fact that they do not have enough human 
resources to face their workload. Ten SAs did not experience 
any change in their staff numbers, while six SAs saw a decrease 
in employees in 2021, in comparison to 2020.

The document providing the overview of the SAs’ resources 
also  demonstrates  that,  across  the  majority  of  the  SAs,  a 
greater number of staff usually works on national enforcement 
cases in comparison to cross-border cases.

In  its  contribution  to  the  evaluation  of  the  GDPR  adopted 
in 2020, the EDPB stressed that the effective application of 
the powers and tasks attributed by the GDPR to SAs is largely 
dependent on the resources available to them. 

8383

EDPB Annual Report 20217

COORDINATED SUPERVISION COMMITTEE OF THE 
LARGE EU INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND OF EU 

BODIES, OFFICES AND AGENCIES

In  accordance  with  Art.  62  of  Regulation  2018/1725,  the 
national  Supervisory  Authorities  (SAs)  and  the  European 
Data  Protection  Supervisor  (EDPS)  shall  cooperate  actively 
to ensure effective supervision of large-scale IT systems and 
of  EU  bodies,  offices  and  agencies.  For  this  purpose,  they 
shall meet at least twice per year within the framework of 
the  EDPB.  Additionally,  several  legal  acts  on  large-scale  IT 
systems and EU agencies refer to this model of coordinated 
supervision. 

To  ensure  the  consistency  of  supervision  efforts  on  both 
levels, all SAs involved, including the EDPS, used to cooperate 
through  Supervision  Coordination  Groups  (SCGs).⁴  Each  of 
these groups was dedicated to a specific EU database. Since 
December  2018,  Regulation  2018/1725  has  provided  for  a 

single  model  of  coordinated  supervision  for  large-scale  EU 
IT systems and agencies within the framework of the EDPB. 
This replaces the current system of individual SCGs. The new 
model  does  not  apply  to  all  EU  information  systems  and 
agencies  at  once,  but  progressively,  according  to  when  the 
revised version of the establishing act of each EU information 
system and agency becomes applicable.  

In December 2019, the Coordinated Supervision Committee 
(CSC)  was  formally  established  within  the  EDPB.  It  brings 
together the SAs of each EU Member State and the EDPS, as 
well as SAs of non-EU Members of the Schengen Area where 
provided for in EU law.  

84

EDPB Annual Report 2021The  CSC’s  tasks  include,  among  others,  supporting  SAs 
in  carrying  out  audits  and  inspections;  working  on  the 
interpretation  or  application  of  the  relevant  EU  legal  act; 
studying  problems  within  the  exercise  of 
independent 
supervision  or  within  the  exercise  of  data  subject  rights; 
drawing  up  harmonised  proposals 
for  solutions;  and 
promoting awareness of data protection rights.  

Participation  in  the  CSC  meetings  can  occur  under  various 
arrangements,  depending  on  the  IT  system,  body,  office  or 
agency for which supervision is taking place, as well as the 
respective  EU  legal  act.  As  announced  in  December  2020, 
during its third plenary meeting, the CSC elected Clara Guerra 
from the Portuguese SA to succeed Giuseppe Busia as its new 
Coordinator  for  a  term  of  two  years.  Sebastian  Hümmeler 
from the German Federal SA currently holds the position of 
Deputy Coordinator.

Pursuant to Art. 62 of Regulation 2018/1725, the following EU 
large-scale IT systems, bodies, offices and agencies currently 
fall under the CSC’s scope: 

Internal Market:
• 

Internal  Market  Information  System  (IMI),  which  allows 
the exchange of information between public authorities 
involved in the practical implementation of EU law. 

Police and Judicial Cooperation: 
•  Eurojust, the agency responsible for judicial cooperation 

in criminal matters among EU Member States;

•  European Public Prosecutor Office (EPPO), the prosecution 
agency  responsible  for  investigating,  prosecuting  and 
bringing to judgment crimes against the EU budget.

In  the  future,  all  coordinated  supervision  of  large  EU 
information  systems,  bodies,  offices  and  agencies  will 
gradually be moved to the CSC, including:

Border, Asylum and Migration:
•  Schengen  Information  System  (SIS),  ensuring  border 

control cooperation (expected no later than June 2022); 

•  Entry  Exit  System  (EES),  which  registers  entry  and  exit 
data and refusal of entry data of third country nationals 
crossing  the  external  borders  of  the  Schengen  States 
(expected before the end of 2022);

•  European  Travel  Information  and  Authorisation  System 
(ETIAS), which tracks visitors from countries who do not 
need a visa to enter the Schengen Zone (expected in May 
2023);

•  Visa  Information  System  (VIS),  connecting  consulates  in 
non-EU countries and all external border-crossing points 
of Schengen States (expected by the end of 2023);

•  Eurodac, which compares fingerprints of asylum applicants 
to see if they have previously applied for asylum or entered 
the EU irregularly via another Member State (expected in  
2022);

•  Customs Information System (CIS), which is an automated 
information  system  that  assists  EU  State  administrative 
authorities  in  preventing,  investigating  and  prosecuting 
operations that are in breach of customs or agricultural 
legislation.

Police and Judicial Cooperation:
•  European Criminal Records Information  System on  third 
country nationals (ECRIS-TCN), which allows EU Member 
State authorities to identify which other Member States 
hold  criminal  records  on  third  country  nationals  or 
stateless persons being checked (expected for 2022);  

•  Europol,  the  EU’s  law  enforcement  agency  (expected  in 

2022);

•  Schengen  Information  System  (SIS)  (see  above,  as  this 

system also fall under Police and Judicial cooperation). 

8585

EDPB Annual Report 2021⁴.  In  the  past,  four  SCGs  were  created for  the  following 
systems: Schengen, Visa and Customs Information Systems, 
as well as for Eurodac.

8686

EDPB Annual Report 20218

ANNEXES

8.1. 

GENERAL GUIDANCE 
ADOPTED IN 2021

•  Guidelines  01/2020  on  processing  personal  data 

in 
the  context  of  connected  vehicles  and  mobility  related 
applications

•  Guidelines  07/2020  on  the  concepts  of  controller  and 

processor in the GDPR

•  Guidelines 08/2020 on the targeting of social media users

•  Guidelines 09/2020 on relevant and reasoned objection 

under Regulation 2016/679

•  Guidelines 10/2020 on restrictions under Art. 23 GDPR

•  Guidelines  01/2021  on  examples  regarding  data  breach 

notification

•  Guidelines 02/2021 on virtual voice assistants

•  Guidelines  03/2021  on  the  application  of  Art.  65(1)(a) 

GDPR

•  Guidelines  04/2021  on  codes  of  conduct  as  tools  for 

transfers

•  Guidelines  05/2021  on  the 

interplay  between  the 
application of Art. 3 and the provisions on international 
transfers as per Chapter V of the GDPR

•  Guidance on certification criteria assessment (Addendum 
to  Guidelines  1/2018  on  certification  and  identifying 
certification criteria in accordance with Arts. 42 and 43 of 
the Regulation)

•  Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement 

87

EDPB Annual Report 2021transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU level of 
protection of personal data

•  Recommendations  01/2021  on  the  adequacy  referential 

under the Law Enforcement Directive

•  Recommendations  02/2021  on  the  legal  basis  for  the 
storage  of  credit  card  data  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
facilitating further online transactions

8.2. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS AND 
DECISIONS ADOPTED IN 2021

•  Opinion  01/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Danish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Saxo Bank Group

•  Opinion  02/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Swedish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Elanders Group

•  Opinion  03/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of BDO

•  Opinion  04/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of BDO

•  Opinion 05/2021 on the draft Administrative Arrangement 
for the transfer of personal data between the Haut Conseil 
du  Commissariat  aux  Comptes  (H3C)  and  the  Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)

•  Opinion  06/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Kumon Group

•  Opinion  07/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Kumon Group

8888

•  Opinion  08/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Baden-
the 

Wurttemberg  Supervisory  Authority 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of Luxoft Group

regarding 

•  Opinion  09/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Baden-
the 

Wurttemberg  Supervisory  Authority 
regarding 
Controller Binding Corporate Rules of Luxoft Group

•  Opinion 10/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Hungary regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR

•  Opinion 11/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Norway regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR

•  Opinion 12/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Portugal regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR

•  Opinion 13/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Romania regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR

•  Opinion  16/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory Authority regarding the “EU Data Protection 
Code of Conduct for Cloud Service Providers” submitted 
by Scope Europe

•  Opinion  17/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  French 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  European  code  of 
conduct  submitted  by  the  Cloud  Infrastructure  Service 
Providers (CISPE)

•  Opinion  18/2021  on  the  draft  Standard  Contractual 
Clauses submitted by the Lithuanian Supervisory Authority 
(Art. 28(8) GDPR)

•  Opinion 19/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 

EDPB Annual Report 2021Supervisory Authority of Hungary regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR

•  Opinion  21/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  French 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of the CGI Group

•  Opinion  22/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  French 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of the CGI Group

•  Opinion 23/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory  Authority  of  Czech  Republic  regarding  the 
approval of the requirements for accreditation of a code 
of conduct monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR

•  Opinion 24/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Slovakia regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR

•  Opinion 25/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Lithuania regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR

•  Opinion 26/2021 on the draft decision of the Supervisory 
Authority of North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany) regarding 
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  Internet 
Initiative Japan Group

•  Opinion 27/2021 on the draft decision of the Supervisory 
Authority of North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany) regarding 
the  Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  Internet 
Initiative Japan Group

•  Opinion  28/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Oregon Tool, Inc (formerly “Blount”)

•  Opinion  29/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 

Corporate Rules of Oregon Tool, Inc (Formerly “Blount”)

•  Opinion  30/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of the COLT Group

•  Opinion  31/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of the COLT Group

•  Opinion  33/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Carrier

•  Opinion  34/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Belgian 
Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Otis

•  Opinion 35/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Belgium regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR

•  Opinion 36/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Norway regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR

•  Opinion 37/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Malta regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR

•  Opinion 38/2021 on the draft decision of the competent 
Supervisory Authority of Latvia regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR

•  Opinion  39/2021  on  whether  Art.  58(2)(g)  GDPR  could 
serve as a legal basis for a supervisory authority to order 
ex officio the erasure of personal data, in a situation where 
such request was not submitted by the data subject

8989

EDPB Annual Report 2021•  Urgent  Binding  Decision  01/2021  on  the  request  under 
Art. 66(2) GDPR from the Hamburg (German) Supervisory 
Authority  for  ordering  the  adoption  of  final  measures 
regarding Facebook Ireland Limited

•  Binding  decision  1/2021  on  the  dispute  arisen  on  the 
draft decision of the Irish Supervisory Authority regarding 
WhatsApp Ireland under Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR

8.3. 

JOINT OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 2021

•  EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 01/2021 on standard contractual 

clauses between controllers and processors

•  EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 02/2021 on standard contractual 
clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries

•  EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 03/2021 on the Proposal for a 
regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 
on European data governance (Data Governance Act)

•  EDPB-EDPS  Joint  Opinion  04/2021  on  the  Proposal  for 
a  Regulation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the 
Council on a framework for the issuance, verification and 
acceptance  of  interoperable  certificates  on  vaccination, 
testing and recovery

•  EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 05/2021 on the proposal for a 
Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 
laying  down  harmonised  rules  on  artificial  intelligence 
(Artificial Intelligence Act)

8.4. 

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION

•  Opinion  14/2021  regarding  the  European  Commission 
Draft Implementing Decision pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
2016/679 on the adequate protection of personal data in 
the United Kingdom

•  Opinion  15/2021  regarding  the  European  Commission 

9090

Draft  Implementing  Decision  pursuant  to  Directive  (EU) 
2016/680 on the adequate protection of personal data in 
the United Kingdom

•  Opinion 20/2021 on Tobacco Traceability System

•  Opinion  32/2021  regarding  the  European  Commission 
Draft Implementing Decision pursuant to Regulation (EU) 
2016/679 on the adequate protection of personal data in 
the Republic of Korea

•  EDPB  Document  on  response  to  the  request  from  the 
European Commission for clarifications on the consistent 
application  of  the  GDPR,  focusing  on  health  research  – 
02/02/2021

•  EDPB contribution to the 6th round of consultations on the 
draft Second Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe 
Budapest Convention on Cybercrime – 04/05/2021

•  Statement 05/2021 on the Data Governance Act in light of 

the legislative developments – 19/05/2021

•  Statement  on  the  Digital  Services  Package  and  Data 

Strategy – 18/11/2021

•  Contribution of the EDPB to the European Commission’s 
evaluation  of  the  Data  Protection  Law  Enforcement 
Directive (LED) under Article 62 – 14/12/2021

8.5. 

OTHER DOCUMENTS

• 

Information  note  on  data  transfers  under  the  GDPR  to 
the United Kingdom after the transition period - update 
13/01/2021

•  Statement  on  the  end  of  the  Brexit  transition  period  - 

update 13/01/2021

•  Pre-GDPR BCRs overview list – 26/01/2021

•  EDPB Work Programme 2021/2022 – 16/03/2021

EDPB Annual Report 20218.6. 

LIST OF EXPERT SUBGROUPS WITH SCOPE OF MANDATES

NAME OF EXPERT SUBGROUP 
(ESG)

Borders, Travel & Law 
Enforcement (BTLE) Expert 
Subgroup 

SCOPE OF MANDATE

•  Law Enforcement Directive

•  Cross-border requests for e-evidence

•  Adequacy  decisions  under  the  Law  Enforcement  Directive,  access  to  transferred 

data by law enforcement and national intelligence authorities in third countries

•  Passenger Name Records (PNR)

•  Border controls

Compliance, e-Government and 
Health (CEH) Expert Subgroup 

•  Codes of conduct, certification and accreditation 

•  Compliance with public law and eGovernment

•  Processing of personal data concerning health

•  Processing of personal data for scientific research purposes

•  Consultation on several legislative proposals by the European Commission within 

the Digital Strategy

•  Close cooperation on DPIA with the Technology ESG focusing on the perspective of 

their mandates

•  Close  cooperation  on  privacy  by  design  and  by  default  with  the  Technology  ESG 

focusing on the perspective of their mandates

Cooperation Expert Subgroup

•  General focus on procedures of established by the GDPR for the purposes of the 

cooperation mechanism  

•  Guidance on procedural questions linked to the cooperation mechanism 

• 

International mutual assistance and other cooperation tools to enforce the GDPR 
outside the EU (Art. 50 GDPR)

Coordinators Expert Subgroup 

•  General coordination between the Expert Subgroup Coordinators

•  Coordination on the annual Expert Subgroup working plan

9191

EDPB Annual Report 2021Enforcement Expert Subgroup

•  Mapping/analysing  the  need  for  additional  clarifications  or  guidance,  based  on 

practical experiences with the application of Chapters VI, VII and VIII GDPR

•  Mapping/analysing possible updates of existing Cooperation subgroup tools

•  Monitoring of investigation activities

•  Practical questions on investigations

•  Guidance on the practical application of Chapter VII GDPR including exchanges on 

concrete cases

•  Guidance on the application of Chapter VIII GDPR together with the Taskforce on 

Administrative Fines

•  Art. 65 and Art. 66 procedures

Financial Matters Expert 
Subgroup

International Transfers Expert 
Subgroup

Application of data protection principles in the financial sector (e.g. automatic exchange 
of personal data for tax purposes; impact of FATCA on the protection of personal data; 
interplay between Second Payment Services Directive and GDPR)

Guidance on Chapter V (International transfer tools and policy issues), more specifically:

•  Review European Commission Adequacy decisions

•  Guidelines on Art. 46 GDPR and review of administrative arrangements between 

public authorities and bodies

•  Codes of conduct and certification as transfer tools

•  Art. 48 GDPR together with BTLE ESG

•  Art. 50 GDPR together with Cooperation ESG

•  Guidelines  on  territorial  scope  and  the  interplay  with  Chapter  V  of  the  GDPR  – 

interaction with Key Provisions ESG

•  Exchange of information on review of BCRs and ad hoc contractual clauses according 

to Art. 64 GDPR

IT Users Expert Subgroup

Developing and testing IT tools used by the EDPB with a practical focus:
•  Collecting feedback on the IT system from users 

•  Adapting the systems and manuals

•  Discussing other business needs including tele- and videoconference systems

9292

EDPB Annual Report 2021Key Provisions Expert Subgroup 

Social Media Expert Subgroup 

Guidance on core concepts and principles of the GDPR, including Chapters I (e.g. scope, 
definitions like LSA and large-scale processing) and II (main principles); Chapters III (e.g. 
rights of individuals, transparency), IV (e.g. DPO – shared competences with CEH ESG, 
Enforcement ESG and Technology ESG) and IX

•  Analysing social media services, conceived as online platforms that focus on enabling 
the development of networks and communities of users, among which information 
and content is shared and whereby additional functions provided by social media 
services include targeting, personalisation, application integration, social plug-ins, 
user authentication, analytics and publishing  

•  Analysing established and emerging functions offered by social media, including the 
underlying processing activities and corresponding risks for the rights and freedoms 
of individuals

•  Developing guidance, recommendations and best practices in relation to both the 
offer and use of social media functions, in particular for economic or political reasons  

•  Providing  assistance  to  other  subgroups,  in  particular  by  proposing  strategic 
priorities in terms of (a) supervision and (b) the development of new EDPB guidance 
or updating of existing WP29 guidance

Strategic Advisory Expert 
Subgroup 

•  Guidance on strategic questions affecting the whole EDPB (including the discussion 

on the strategy and on the work plans of the ESGs)

Taskforce on Administrative 
Fines

•  Clarification of questions that could not be resolved in the ESG

Development of Guidelines on the harmonisation of the calculation of fines

Technology Expert Subgroup

•  Technology,  innovation,  information  security,  confidentiality  of  communication  in 

general

•  ePrivacy, encryption

•  DPIA and data breach notifications

•  Emerging technologies, innovation and other challenges related to privacy: reflecting 

on data protection risks of future technological developments

•  Providing input on technology matters relevant to other ESG

9393

EDPB Annual Report 2021CONTACT DETAILS 

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels 

Postal address 

 

Office address 

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

9494

EDPB Annual Report 2021