Enhancing the depth
and breadth of
data protection
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

ENHANCING THE DEPTH AND BREADTH OF 

DATA PROTECTION 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Further details about the EDPB can be found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

2

EDPB Annual Report 2021Surveillance  Authority  have  the  right  to  participate  in  the 
activities  and  meetings  of  the  EDPB.  The  EDPB  is  based  in 
Brussels.

The EDPB has a Secretariat, which is provided by the EDPS. 
A Memorandum of Understanding determines the terms of 
cooperation between the EDPB and the EDPS.

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent 
European body, established by the General Data Protection 
Regulation  (GDPR),  which  aims  to  ensure  the  consistent 
application  of  data  protection  rules  across  the  European 
Economic  Area  (EEA).  It  achieves  this  aim  by  promoting 
cooperation  between  national  Supervisory  Authorities 
(SAs) and issuing general, EEA-wide guidance regarding the 
interpretation and application of data protection rules. 

The  EDPB  comprises  the  Heads  of  the  EU  SAs  and  the 
European  Data  Protection  Supervisor  (EDPS).  The  SAs  of 
the  EEA  countries  (Iceland,  Liechtenstein  and  Norway)  are 
also members of the EDPB, although they do not  have the 
right to vote. The European Commission and – with regard to 
GDPR-related matters – the European Free Trade Association 

3

EDPB Annual Report 20211. 

2021 – HIGHLIGHTS 

1.1. 

GUIDANCE FOLLOWING THE 
SCHREMS II RULING

As  part  of  its  guidance  work  following  the  Case  C-311/18 
Schrems  II  ruling  by  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  European 
Union, the EDPB issued recommendations and a joint opinion 
with  the  EDPS.  The  updated  Recommendations  01/2020  on 
measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance 
with  the  EU  level  of  protection  of  personal  data  following 
public  consultation  complement  and  are  consistent  with  the 
European  Commission’s  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  (SCCs) 
for international data transfers. The EDPS-EDPB Joint Opinion 
02/2021  on  SCCs  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to  third 
countries guides exporters on how to apply the SCCs correctly 
by taking into account the new requirements under the GDPR 
and the Schrems II ruling.

1.2. 

EDPB-EDPS JOINT OPINION ON THE 
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACT

Following  the  publication  of  the  European  Commission’s 
Proposal  for  a  Regulation  laying  down  harmonised  rules  on 
artificial  intelligence  (AI),  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  adopted 
the  Joint  Opinion  05/2021  on  the  proposal  for  a  regulation 
of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  laying  down 
harmonised rules on artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence 
Act). The joint opinion covers points regarding the proposal’s 
scope, risk-based approach and alignment with the GDPR, but 
also prohibited uses of AI, high-risk AI systems, governance and 
European AI Board, regulatory sandboxes and interaction with 
the data protection framework. 

1.3. 

ART. 65 GDPR BINDING DECISION 
ON WHATSAPP IRELAND

The  EDPB  adopted  a  binding  decision  based  on  Art.  65(1)
(a)  GDPR,  which  sought  to  address  the  lack  of  consensus  on 
certain aspects of a draft decision issued by the Irish SA as lead 
supervisory  authority  (LSA)  regarding  WhatsApp  Ireland  Ltd. 
(WhatsApp IE) and the subsequent objections expressed by a 
number of concerned supervisory authorities (CSAs). The EDPB 
concluded  that  the  Irish  SA  should  amend  its  draft  decision 
on WhatsApp IE regarding infringements of transparency, the 
period to bring processing operations into compliance and the 
calculation of the fine.

1.4. 

FIRST URGENT BINDING DECISION 
UNDER ART. 66 GDPR

The EDPB adopted its first urgent binding decision under Art. 
66(2) GDPR following a request from the Hamburg SA, which 
had adopted provisional measures against Facebook Ireland Ltd. 
(Facebook IE) under Art. 66(1) GDPR. The provisional measures 
prohibited Facebook IE from processing, for three months, the 
data  of  German  residents  using  WhatsApp  for  Facebook  IE’s 
own purposes, following a change in the Terms of Service and 
Privacy Policy applicable to European users of WhatsApp IE.

The EDPB decided that the conditions to prove the existence 
of an infringement to the GDPR and the urgency to adopt final 
measures were not met, hence stating that the Irish SA did not 
need to adopt final measures against Facebook IE. The EDPB, 
however  requested  the  Irish  SA  to  perform,  as  a  matter  of 
priority, a statutory investigation; to determine whether such 
processing activities were taking place or not and, if they were, 
whether they had a proper legal basis under Art. 5(1)(a) and 
Art. 6(1) GDPR; and to further investigate the role of Facebook 
IE.

4

EDPB Annual Report 20211.5. 

EDPB OPINIONS ON DRAFT 
UK ADEQUACY DECISIONS

In  2021,  the  EDPB  issued  two  opinions  on  the  European 
Commission draft Implementing Decisions on the adequate 
protection of personal data in the UK and recommendations 
on  the  adequacy  referential  under  the  Law  Enforcement 
Directive (LED).

Opinion  14/2021  relates  to  the  adequate  protection  of 
personal  data  in  the  UK  pursuant  to  the  GDPR.  It  assesses 
general data protection aspects of the UK legal framework. 
The opinion also examines the UK public authorities’ access 
to personal data transferred from the EEA to the UK, for the 
purposes of law enforcement and national security. Opinion 
15/2021 also relates to the adequate protection of personal 
data in the UK but is based on the LED. It analyses the draft 
adequacy decision in the light of Recommendations 01/2021, 
as well as the relevant case law reflected in Recommendations 
02/2020  on 
for 
surveillance measures. This was the first draft implementing 
decision on a third country’s adequacy under the LED ever 
presented  by  the  European  Commission  and  assessed  by 
the  EDPB.  Recommendations  01/2021  on  the  adequacy 
referential under the LED provide guidance to the European 
Commission on the level of data protection in third countries 
and international organisations under the LED.

the  European  Essential  Guarantees 

specific  terms  in  the  GDPR.  Amongst  those  guidelines  and 
recommendations,  the  EDPB  also  adopted  six  documents 
after public consultation.

The  EDPB  also  adopted  15  legislative  consultations  or 
statements addressed to the EU legislator or Member States.

issued  consistency  opinions  to  ensure  the 
The  EDPB 
consistent application of the GDPR by national SAs. In 2021, 
they issued 35 opinions under Art. 64 GDPR. These opinions 
mainly concerned draft decisions regarding Binding Corporate 
Rules, draft accreditation requirements for a code of conduct 
monitoring  body  or  a  certification  body,  as  well  as  draft 
Standard Contractual Clauses.

3.             SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY                              

ACTIVITIES IN 2021

National SAs are independent public authorities that ensure 
the  consistent  application  of  data  protection  law.  They 
play  a  key  role  in  safeguarding  individuals’  data  protection 
rights,  especially  through  exercising  corrective  powers.  The 
EDPB website includes a selection of SA supervisory actions 
relating to GDPR enforcement at a national level. The EDPB 
also maintains a register of decisions taken by national SAs 
in line with the One-Stop-Shop cooperation procedure (Art. 
60 GDPR).

2.             EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD 

ACTIVITIES IN 2021

3. 1.        CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION

To ensure the consistent application of the GDPR across the 
EEA,  the  EDPB  issues  general  guidance  to  clarify  European 
data protection laws. In 2021, the EDPB adopted 14 guidelines 
and  recommendations  on  topics  such  as  data  breach 
notifications, codes of conduct as data transfer tools, storing 
credit card data, virtual voice assistants and the meaning of 

One  of  the  SAs’  tasks  is  to  coordinate  decision-making  in 
cross-border data processing cases.

Between 1 January and 31 December 2021, there were 506 
entries  of  cross-border  cases  in  the  database  out  of  which 
375 originated from a complaint, while 131 had other origins, 
such as investigations, legal obligations and/or media reports.

5

EDPB Annual Report 2021The  One-Stop-Shop  mechanism  necessitates  cooperation 
between the LSA and the CSAs. The LSA leads the investigation 
and plays a key role in the process of reaching a consensus 
between the CSAs, in addition to working towards reaching a 
coordinated decision about the data controller or processor. 
Between 1 January 2021 and 31 December 2021, there were 
209 draft decisions, which resulted in 141 final decisions.

The  mutual  assistance  procedure  allows  SAs  to  ask  for 
information  from  other  SAs  or  to  request  other  measures 
for  effective  cooperation,  such  as  prior  authorisations  or 
investigations.  Between  1  January  2021  and  31  December 
2021, SAs initiated 243 formal mutual assistance procedures 
and 2418 voluntary mutual assistance procedures.

4.             STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION

The EDPB conducted a survey as part of the annual review 
of  the  EDPB’s  activities  under  Art.  71(2)  GDPR.  Questions 
centred on the EDPB’s work and output in 2021, with a focus 
on  its  guidelines  and  recommendations,  all  with  a  view  to 
understanding  the  extent  to  which  stakeholders  find  the 
EDPB’s guidance helpful in interpreting the GDPR’s provisions, 
and  in  order  to  identify  future  paths  to  better  support 
individuals  and  organisations  as  they  interact  with  the  EU 
data protection framework.

5.             STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES FOR 2022

The EDPB’s Strategy for 2021-2023 includes four main pillars, 
as well as a set of three key actions per pillar to help achieve 
these  goals.  In  early  2021,  the  EDPB  adopted  its  two-year 
work  programme  for  2021-2022,  according  to  Art.  29  of 
the EDPB Rules of Procedure. The work programme follows 
the priorities set out in the Strategy and will put these into 
practice.

6

EDPB Annual Report 2021Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels 

CONTACT DETAILS 

Postal address 

 

Office address 

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

7

EDPB Annual Report 2021