

Path: Home page > Main menu > Surveillance and decision-making activity Camera systems in the stadium (UOOU-01692/20)
Premier League football club


The inspection was launched on the basis of the inspection plan for 2020. The subject of the inspection was the verification of compliance with the processing of personal data according to the general regulation through the camera system in ensuring the safety of visitors at the stadium, including the possible use of biometric data. image (e.g. photo, video), audiovisual or audio recordings. In addition, the controlled party also processes data on the use of the permanent ticket if the visitor is its owner. The inspection found that the inspected person processes personal data in his two camera systems. The subject has determined the purposes of personal data processing (protection of the controller's property and protection of the life and health of persons moving in the monitored area using a camera system, determination, enforcement or defense of the controller's legal claims, prevention and detection of illegal activity, violation of the granted entry ban and violation of the visiting order, documentation the aforementioned objectionable actions of the data subject). The processing and use of biometric personal data was not proven. Furthermore, it was established that the controlled party adopted a number of technical and organizational measures for the protection of personal data, including an internal regulation governing the operation of the camera system, and has a record of the processing activities and an assessment of the impact of the processing on the protection of personal data for the camera system. system (DPIA). The auditee conducts regular employee training. It has a contract with the processor for the operation of camera systems. The inspection did not reveal any violation of the obligations arising from the general regulation.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2020 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > IT technology > Camera systems at the stadium (UOOU-01692/20) View Current Documents | document archive | documents including the archive



