 

 
 

media information
 
Saxon data protection officer
 
 

 

Cross-national examination: approvals
Media company websites are mostly
ineffective - corrections required

Andreas Schurig: “Saxon media providers have to be active
will!"

 
The data protection supervisory authorities of several German states have
Media company websites regarding the use of cookies
and the integration of third-party services is examined. Total were based
a joint test catalog tested 49 websites in 11 countries.
The focus was on user tracking for advertising purposes. Most
of the checked websites do not meet the legal requirements
for the use of cookies and other tracking technologies. the
Media companies are thus violating the rights of their users
users to protect their personal data. Also first adjustments
the legal deficits have not yet been able to be addressed by some of those responsible
eliminate completely.
 
For users, there is the practice of media companies
a significant risk. The data collected as part of user tracking
personal data
especially to create and
Enrichment of comprehensive and cross-site personality profiles
used. These are used for online marketing, especially in real time
Bidding process (real-time auction of advertising space) used.
The state data protection authorities involved have an effect on the companies
their area of responsibility to ensure data protection-compliant conditions
to manufacture. If necessary, they will take regulatory action
seize.
 
For the coordinated investigation, the authorities from Baden-
Württemberg, Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Hesse, Lower Saxony,
North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate, Saarland, Saxony and
Schleswig-Holstein from mid-August 2020 a jointly developed
Questionnaires to media companies in their respective areas of responsibility. Checked
were not all websites of the companies, but their
widest-reaching offers. Even before the questionnaires are sent

Page 1 of 3

 
 

 

  

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
 
extension
Telephone 0351/85471-120
Fax 0351/85471-109
 
saechsdsb@
slt.sachsen.de*
 
File number
SPR-0121/11/25
 
Dresden,
June 30, 2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden
 
www.saechsdsb.de
 
Transport connection:
Accessible by road
railway lines 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)
 
*Information about the
processing of your
personal data and
to access for encrypted
Emails can be found at
https://www.saechsdsb.de/
Data protection.
 



 
 

 

  

the selected websites were technically secured and analyzed. So was
a comparison between the responses of the media companies and the actual one
technical design of the pages possible. In addition to the positions already mentioned
the supervisory authority in Bavaria also participated in the evaluation of the content of the
investigation results.
 
A very high number of cookies and
third party services
the
used,
serve advertising financing.
 
The websites usually ask for differentiated consent from the users
and users for the use of cookies and third-party services. In the majority of
cases, however, these consents are not effective.
The main deficiencies identified during the audit were:
 

which is mainly used for user tracking and

 Incorrect order: Third-party services that require consent are often already
integrated when the website is opened and cookies are set - so ahead of time
the consent request.

 Missing information: On the first level, the consent banner will be displayed
moreover, insufficient or incorrect information about user tracking
given.

 Insufficient scope of consent: Even if the user has the option
perceives everything already on the first level of the consent banner
to refuse, numerous cookies and third-party services remain active, one
require consent.

 No simple opt-out: While all consent banners on the
first level there is a button with which a consent to
All cookies and third-party services can be granted is missing at this level
often an equally easy way to do that
  consent-requiring
Reject user tracking in its entirety or the banner without a decision
to be able to close.

 Manipulation of users: The design of the
Consent banner exhibits numerous forms of nudging. That means,
Users are subliminal to give their consent
urged by the consent button, for example, by a
colored highlighting is designed much more conspicuously than the button to
Reject or by unnecessarily complicating the refusal of consent
becomes.

 
The Saxon Data Protection Officer Andreas Schurig explains:
“Many people use the websites of Saxon media companies every day. cookie
Banners and the integration of third-party providers sometimes cause uncertainty.
I keep getting complaints about this. My regulator
therefore has five wide-ranging online presences of Saxon media providers in relation

page 2 of 3



 
 

 

  

scrutinized for data protection. Nor are the procedures and the
Exchange with those responsible not completed. At this point in time
itself
However, it can already be stated that the tested websites still have
Need for improvement in the design of the consent solutions, the
data transfers and the transparency of the offers for users.”
 

page 3 of 3

