1/10

 File No.: EXP202208256

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 06/30/2022, this Agency received a document submitted
by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), through which the claim is made
against SAN ANDRÉS DEL RABANEDO CITY COUNCIL with NIF P2414500E (in
hereinafter, the CITY COUNCIL), for a possible breach of the provisions of the
personal data protection regulations.

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

“On ***DATE.1, the San Andrés del Rabanedo city council published a bulletin
written by Mr. B.B.B., in which he publishes the email without prior
authorization. Said email is ***EMAIL.1. Which in internet search engines gives
direct link to the official bulletin indicated above to the exact address to said
bulletin. The data is found on page XX of the Bocyl. He went to the town hall
for the elimination of said data and after a month it is still not eliminated (…)”.

Attach the following documentation:

- Copy of the Official Gazette of Castilla y León (hereinafter, BOCYL) of
***DATE.1 on which the personal email information of the company is published
complaining party.

- Copy of the document presented to the CITY COUNCIL on 06/01/2022,

requesting the withdrawal of said data, and with the following text:

“[…]

By the Local Government Board of this Town Hall held last
***DATE.2 the final approval agreement of (...) was adopted.

Said agreement was sent by the city council to the BOCYL for its publication, which
has taken place in the past ***DATE.1. As can be seen in the document
number 1 attached, the City Council sent the BOCYL a text of the agreement that
includes, without necessity and without my consent, my email address
personal and private, with the serious addition that from the website of the official newspaper
regional my email address appears conspicuously prominent and
By clicking on it, anyone can send emails to the exhibitor.
In other words, an email address has been made public

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

completely private and has been made accessible to anyone, even if you don't know your
headline.

The damage has already occurred to those who expose with a practice prohibited both by the
national legislation (...) as well as by the legislation of the European Community (...), which
disavow the use and public dissemination that has been given to my personal and private account
of e-mail.

[…]”

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), on 07/27/2022 the claim was transferred to the
TOWN HALL, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 08/01/2022 as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt that works in the file; without having been received by the Agency
response to it.

THIRD: On 09/30/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 11/25/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
de Datos agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the CITY COUNCIL, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged violation of the
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5.a) of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the
Protection of Natural Persons with regard to Data Processing
Personal Information and the Free Circulation of these Data (hereinafter, GDPR).

FIFTH: On 11/28/2022, the CITY COUNCIL was notified of the aforementioned
start in accordance with the rules established in the LPACAP and, on 12/12/2022,
submitted a pleadings brief in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“[…]

In response to the request to exercise the right of deletion by Ms. A.A.A.,
(...), the following measures were taken:

a) The incident was notified to the Official Gazette of Castilla y León, on the date
*** DATE.3, requesting the deletion of the personal email of the affected party, in
response to the request that came to this City Council. in bliss
notification was reported so that they were fully aware of the incident and
to provide the relevant support. (…). No response was received for
written.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

a) The Technician responsible for the Urban Planning service maintained communications
telephone calls with those responsible for BOCYL, in which, upon request
rectification, you were informed that official gazettes are not subject to
modification once published, being only possible an announcement of
rectification in a later bulletin, an announcement that would be absurd in a
case like this, since the claimant's email would once again be
advertising object.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, and following the recommendation of the Protection delegate
of Data of the City Council of San Andrés del Rabanedo, has been sent to the BOCYL
new written request to comply with the right to suppress the
claimant. (…). Any response or subsequent action will be communicated to the
AEPD.

[…]”

Along with the letter, submit the following documentation:

- Copy of the "Request for deletion of personal data in the Bulletin announcement
number XX/XXXX” sent by the CITY COUNCIL to the BOCYL, on date
05/25/2022 at 13:28. The content is as follows:

"Subject: Request for deletion of personal data in Bulletin announcement
number 94/2022.

Having seen the announcement published in the Bulletin number XX, dated ***DATE.1, in
the one that by mistake has been maintained in the agreement object of the publication the
personal email address on page XXXX (appears as a link
highlighted in blue), according to (...), it is requested that with the maximum
urgently said data is eliminated for which purpose a new announcement is sent in
replacement of rectified (...)”.

- Copy of the "Request to exercise the right to delete data
referred to in Bulletin No. XX/XXXX, ***DATE.1” sent by
TOWN HALL to BOCYL, on 12/12/2022 at 10:39. Its content is
the next:

“[…]

On May 26, 2022, we send your office a request to exercise
of the right to delete personal data, referring to the publication of the
personal email address on page XXXX (where it appears
as a link highlighted in blue), where we requested the deletion of said
personal data (…).

We reiterate our request as we have not received a written response from our
communication dated May 26, 2022.

[…]

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

That under the protection of the exercise of the right of the affected person who has sent us his
request, Ms. A.A.A., we forward the request so that it can proceed to agree
the deletion of personal data on which the right is exercised
(…).

Namely: that the deletion of the data in the case at hand materializes
in the deindexation of the links that are offered in the search engines of
internet by entering the personal email of the affected person. (…)”

SIXTH: On 01/24/2023, the investigating body of the procedure agreed to consider
reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the claimant
and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated during the phase of
admission to processing of the claim; as well as the allegations to the initiation agreement
of the referenced sanctioning procedure, presented by the CITY COUNCIL, and the
accompanying documentation.
  
SEVENTH: On 02/09/2023, the instructing body of the disciplinary procedure
formulated a resolution proposal, in which it proposes that the Director of this
Agency imposes a warning sanction on the CITY COUNCIL OF SAN
ANDRÉS DEL RABANEDO, with NIF P2414500E, for a violation of article 5.1.c)
of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.

This proposed resolution, which was notified to the CITY COUNCIL in accordance with the
standards established in the LPACAP, was collected on 02/15/2023, as stated
in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

EIGHTH: On 02/27/2023, this Agency receives, in due time and form,
letter from the CITY COUNCIL in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“[…]

We record that under Article 17.2 of the General Regulation of
Data protection and in our condition, the city council of San Andrés del
Rabanedo, responsible for data processing (...), adopted as measures
reasonable to transfer to those who are processing the personal data (in this case the
Official Gazette of Castilla y León) referring to the request of the interested party, 2
communications requesting the deletion of the personal data reason for the
claim by the affected party, indicating that said data be deleted. (…). Without
get any answer.

After what happened and with the pretense that the situation that happened does not happen again
produce, the municipality of San Andrés del Rabanedo has taken the following
measures:

1) It has been made available to all labor personnel, officials, etc., the

Safety Manual of the San Andrés del Rabanedo City Hall.

2) The administrative file is being processed for legal approval

form of the Safety Manual.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

3) As a consequence of the events that occurred, and in order to create a
culture of data protection, training has been carried out for the entire
staff of the San Andrés de Rabanedo City Council. (…)

4) Moreover, with the idea that its diffusion is general, and with the intention
that the workers themselves of the City Council can have
always said formation, we have proceeded to the recording of said formation of
2 hours referred to the General Data Protection Regulation
(general provisions, object, scope of material application, scope
territory, principles, rights of the interested party, responsible and in charge of
treatment, the figure of the data protection delegate, security of the
data, responsibilities and sanctions, control authorities, the importance of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency, among some issues that are
picked up in formation).

5) The clauses of the documents of the

City hall.

6) A corporate email has been created for the DPD of the City Council of the
San Andrés del Rabanedo so that the workers can maintain
contact the delegate to receive advice, when doubts arise or
issues related to the transfer of data or data collection or any
Consultation regarding data protection.

7) A document manager tool has been contracted for the use and management
of the clauses in the documentation with which the City Council works.
(Lefebvre).

Attached to the letter is the following documentation:

- Copy of the "Request for deletion of personal data in the Bulletin announcement
number XX/XXXX” sent by the CITY COUNCIL to the BOCYL, on date
05/25/2022 at 13:28. The content is indicated in the fifth point, of the
"Background" section of this resolution.

- Copy of the "Request to exercise the right to delete data
referred to in Bulletin No. XX/XXXX, ***DATE.1” sent by the
TOWN HALL to BOCYL, on 12/12/2022 at 10:39. The content is
the one indicated in the fifth point, of the "Background" section, of this resolution.

- Copy of the email, dated 02/05/2023, sent from the email address
***EMAIL.1, which convenes a training session on the protection of
data to all employees of the City of San Andrés del Rabanedo.
The content is as follows:

"Good morning,
Next Monday, February 13, 2023, from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. they will give us a
telematic talk on Data Protection through the TEAMS application.
In this talk, the person responsible for data protection will give us a
introduction on the matter and will remain at your disposal to ask
the doubts you have. From what they tell us, this talk will be recorded for
its subsequent viewing by the employees of your Departments, or if it
consider it necessary for a member of your Department to attend, for
its special use of data. There will be a computer connected to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

big screen in the plenary hall for those who want to attend
face-to-face For those who prefer to connect online,
Being through teams, all I need is for you to let me know your
email address to send you the link.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1 the Agreement of ***DATE.2 of the
Local Government Board regarding the final approval of (...), which included
the personal email information of the complaining party (***EMAIL.1).

SECOND: On 05/26/2022 the CITY COUNCIL sends a request to the BOCYL in the
requesting the deletion of the party's personal email address
claimant appearing in the agreement published in Bulletin No. XX/XXXX, of
***DATE.1.

THIRD: On 06/01/2022 the claimant requests the CITY COUNCIL to withdraw
of the personal data of your email in the BOCYL of *** DATE.1, whose
content is indicated in the "Background" section, fifth point, of this
resolution.

FOURTH: On 12/12/2022 the CITY COUNCIL reiterates its request for elimination to the
BOCYL, whose content is indicated in the "Background" section, fifth point,
of this resolution.

FIFTH: As a result of the knowledge of this claim, the TOWN HALL has
adopted measures regarding the facts that are the object of the claim, as well as to avoid
repeat a similar situation.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Competition and applicable regulations

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Agency is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

II

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the GDPR, there is
the processing of personal data, whenever the
CITY COUNCIL carries out, among other treatments, the collection, conservation,
use, communication, publication and access of the personal email address
email from the complaining party.

The CITY COUNCIL carries out this activity in its capacity as responsible for the
treatment, since it is who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of
of article 4.7 of the GDPR.

II

Allegations adduced

In relation to the allegations adduced to the agreement to initiate this
disciplinary procedure, the following was answered.

The CITY COUNCIL acknowledges that, indeed, the personal address of
email address of the complaining party (***EMAIL.1) in BOCYL No. XX/XXXX of
***DATE.1. However, as soon as the error was detected, a message was sent to BOCYL
request requesting its deletion.

It alleges that, in the absence of a written response and in attention to the right to erasure
exercised by the claimant, reiterated its request on 12/12/2022 in order to
delete and proceed to the deindexation of the links that are offered in the
Internet search engines when entering the personal data in question. In case of response
or action by the BOCYL, the claimed party undertakes to notify this
Agency.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that it positively values the measures
adopted by the claimed party to proceed to correct the error that gave
rise to the claim filed by the claiming party.

However, as already indicated in the opening agreement, the categories of data
selected for treatment must be strictly necessary to achieve
stated purpose and the data controller must strictly limit the
data collection to that information that is directly related to the purpose
what you are trying to achieve. Thus, it is undeniable that the publication
of the personal email data of the complaining party in the Agreement of
***DATE.2 of (...), gives rise to excessive and unnecessary processing for the purpose
persecuted by the aforementioned agreement.

In relation to the allegations made in the proposed resolution of this
disciplinary procedure, we proceed to respond to them.

The CITY COUNCIL highlights the lack of response from the BOCYL to
the two requests for deletion of the personal data object of the claim. and what has
taken a series of measures as a consequence of the facts denounced as,
For example, the delivery of a training session on data protection of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

personal nature to all employees of the City of San Andrés del
Rabanedo.

In this regard, it should be noted that, as regards the measures that it claims to have
adopted by the CITY COUNCIL, although this reflects positive conduct, it does not
distort the facts verified and that constitute the infringement charged
of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since its violation has already been revealed.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR

IV.

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR supposes the commission of the infringement
typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 Offenses considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; (…)”

Penalty for violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR

V

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR in its section 7 establishes:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

(…)

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
likewise, the measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct it.
the effects of the offense committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
enough evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
be applicable.
Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
accredit the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.”

Therefore, once the aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR has been confirmed, it corresponds
sanction the CITY COUNCIL with a warning.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF SAN ANDRÉS DEL RABANEDO, with
NIF P2414500E, for a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, a warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SAN ANDRÉS CITY COUNCIL
OF THE RABANEDO.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

