1/17

 Procedure No.: PS/00049/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: MUNICIPAL CONSUMER INSTITUTE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
MADRID (hereinafter, the claimant) on July 8, 2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L. with NIF B86512605 (in
later, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the website
http://multiserviciosunisafer.com/ would not be providing the user with information
clear and complete information on the processing of your personal data.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/07899/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimed party, on November 5, 2020, so that he could proceed to
its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data, with no response to date.

THIRD: On March 25, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 7 of the RGPD, Article 13 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, on April 9, 2021, the respondent
presented a brief of allegations in which, in summary, it stated that the website
http://multiserviciosunisafer.com/, has been redirected to https://www.unisafer.com in the
have made the following changes:

“- We have proceeded to improve the first layer of information that appears in the
contact form, providing the interested party with more complete information about the
data of the person responsible for the treatment of your data, the purpose of said treatment,
the legitimacy of the same, the fact that there are no transfers of the data and the
rights that assist you under the RGPD.
- In addition, we have proceeded to improve our privacy policy specifying, even
Furthermore, the type of data that is collected together with the treatment that will be carried out on them.
mos.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

The allegations conclude by pointing out that on April 9, 2021 they have carried out the
last update, leaving the privacy policy of your website as follows-
you way:
“This policy expresses how the personal information of all companies will be treated and protected.
people who are related to UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L. through this site
Web. Please, you must read all the sections of the Legal Notice, the Privacy Policy
Cookies and this Privacy Policy before using this website.

In accordance with the provisions of EU Regulation 2016/679, General of
Data Protection (RGPD) and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights, UNISAFER
SERVICIOS, S.L., informs you that, by accepting this Privacy Policy
Privacy, you give your express, informed, free and unequivocal consent so that
the data you provide, and on which security measures are applied,
technical and organizational provisions provided for in current regulations, are treated by
UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L., as data controller.

WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS WEBSITE?

Responsible Identity: UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L.

NIF/CIF: B86512605

Address: Calle Ecuador 68, 28983 Parla (Madrid, Spain)

Email: info@multiserviciosunisafer.com

Activity: Home and business repairs; authorized installer of
heating and sanitary hot water and gas.

Contact details of the person in charge:

By mail: Calle Ecuador 68, 28983 Parla (Madrid, Spain)

By email: info@unisafer.com

By phone: (34) 622073665

Through the web form Contact – Unsafer Services
Registered in the Mercantile Registry of Madrid, in volume 30232, folio 56, section 8 and sheet
M-544131, on September 5, 2012

Registered in the Registry of the General Directorate of Industry, Energy and Mines of the
Community of Madrid with numbers 4772 and 2481

WHAT PERSONAL DATA IS COLLECTED ON THIS WEBSITE?

For the purposes established in this Privacy Policy, UNISAFER
SERVICES, S.L. collects and processes the personal data detailed below,
that will depend on the different services that you request on this website:

Identification data: name, surnames, postal address, email, number
of phone.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

Browsing data: IP address, device type and identification, browser type,
domain through which you access the Website, browsing data, activity on the
Website.

ON WHAT LEGAL BASIS ARE THESE DATA PROCESSED?

We treat your personal data with the following legal bases:

The execution of a contract with UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L. for the hiring of
services and manage the requested services.

The consent of the user in relation to the contact, via mail, cookies or systems of
Messenger service.

The legitimate interest of the data controller to protect users of the
website of UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L. of abuse and fraud in the use of our
services.

FOR WHAT PURPOSES WILL WE TREAT YOUR DATA?

On this website, there are different forms, in each of them, the information that
collect will be used as follows:

Contact form: for questions, suggestions or professional contact. In this
In this case, the email address and/or the telephone number will be used to
respond to them and send the information that the user requires through the
website, which may require the user's home address to provide a
adequate information.

TIME OF CONSERVATION OF PERSONAL DATA

Customer data: The retention period of personal data will vary depending on
function of the service that the client contracts. In any case, it will be the minimum
necessary, being able to stay until:

– 4 years: Arts. 66 et seq. General Tax Law (accounting books…).

– 5 years: Art. 1964 of the Civil Code (personal actions without special term).

– 6 years: Art. 30 of the Commercial Code (accounting books, invoices…).

– 10 years: Art. 25 of the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing
of Terrorism.

Data of contact persons: the data will be kept in any case during the
time necessary to manage the queries that send us through the
channels enabled for this purpose.

WHAT ARE YOUR RIGHTS REGARDING THE USE OF YOUR
DATA?

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

Any person has the right to obtain confirmation as to whether UNISAFER
SERVICES, S.L. we are treating personal data that concerns you or not.

Interested persons have the right to:

Request access to personal data relating to the interested party.

Request its rectification or deletion.

Request your cancellation.

Request the limitation of your treatment.

Oppose the treatment.

Request data portability.

If you have given your consent for a specific purpose, you have the right to
withdraw the consent granted at any time, without affecting the legality
of the treatment based on the consent prior to its withdrawal.

In the event that you feel your rights have been violated with regard to the protection of
your personal data, especially when you have not obtained satisfaction in the
exercise of your rights, you can file a claim with the Authority of
Control in terms of competent Data Protection through its site
web: https://www.aepd.es/es

To exercise these rights, you can write to info@unisafer.com or by
communication addressed or delivered to Calle Ecuador 68, 28983 Parla (Madrid,
Spain).

If the application is submitted by electronic means, the information will be provided by
these means where possible, unless you request otherwise.

There is a form for the exercise of your rights, you can request it by email or if you
If you prefer, you can use those prepared by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection or
third parties.

It will be necessary to provide a photocopy of the DNI or equivalent document that proves the
identity and is considered valid in law, in those cases in which the
responsible for the treatment has doubts about his identity. In case of action
Through legal representation, you must also provide a DNI and document
accreditation of the representation of the representative.

SECURITY NOTICE AND BREACH STATEMENT

In UNISAFER SERVICES, S.L. We assume adequate security measures at the level
of risk to protect personal information against loss, misuse and access
unauthorized disclosure, alteration and destruction, taking into account the risks
what the processing entails and the nature of the personal information; nevertheless,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

If UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L. determines that your service data has been
embezzled (even by an employee of UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L., have been seen
exposed by a security breach or improperly acquired by a
third party, UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L. will act immediately taking into account
what is established by the RGPD and the competent data protection authorities.

TO WHICH RECIPIENTS WILL YOUR DATA BE COMMUNICATED?

Certain tools used on this website to manage data are
hired by third parties.

To provide services strictly necessary for the development of the activity,
UNISAFER SERVICES, S.L. shares data with the following providers under their
corresponding privacy conditions:

Third-party service providers (for example, website management, and distribution
email and other similar service providers) so that these
may perform commercial functions on behalf of UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L.

The development company and
web maintenance, or hosting. All our suppliers have signed a
contract for the provision of services that obliges them to maintain the same level of
privacy that applies to the treatments carried out on this website.

International transfers of personal data are not planned.

SECRET AND DATA SECURITY
UNISAFER SERVICES, S.L. agrees to the use and treatment of data
of the user, respecting their confidentiality, in accordance with the purpose of
those; as well as to comply with their obligation to keep them and adopt all
the measures to avoid the alteration, loss, treatment or unauthorized access, of
in accordance with the provisions of current data protection regulations.

This website includes an SSL certificate. It is a security protocol that makes
that your data travels in an integral and secure manner; that is, the transmission of the data
between a server and the web user, and feedback is fully encrypted or
encrypted.

UNISAFER SERVICES, S.L. cannot guarantee the absolute impregnability of the
Internet network, nor, therefore, the violation of data through fraudulent access to
them by third parties.

Regarding the confidentiality of the processing, UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L.
will ensure that any person who is authorized by UNISAFER
SERVICES, S.L. to process customer data (including your personal,
collaborators and providers), will be under the appropriate obligation of confidentiality
(either a contractual or legal duty).

ACCURACY AND TRUTHFULNESS OF THE DATA

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

As a user, you are solely responsible for the accuracy and correctness of the data you provide.
send to UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L. through this website, exempting UNISAFER
SERVICIOS, S.L., of any responsibility in this regard. Users guarantee and
They are responsible, in any case, for the accuracy, validity and authenticity of the data
provided, and undertake to keep them duly updated. The
user agrees to provide complete and correct information in the form of
contact or subscription.

REVOCABILITY

The consent given, both for the treatment and for the transfer of data
of the interested parties, it is revocable at any time by notifying UNISAFER
SERVICES, S.L. in the terms established in this Policy for the exercise of the
rights recognized by the General Regulation of Data Protection to the
interested. This revocation will in no case be retroactive.

CHANGES IN THE PRIVACY POLICY

UNISAFER SERVICES, S.L. reserves the right to modify this policy
to adapt it to new legislation or jurisprudence, as well as to practices of the
industry.

In these cases, it will announce on this page the changes introduced with
reasonable time before its implementation.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT OUR PROTECTION POLICY
DATA

Common issues for all treatment activities:

Who is responsible for the treatment of your data?

Responsible Identity: UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L.
NIF/CIF: B86512605

Address: Calle Ecuador 68, 28983 Parla (Madrid, Spain)

Email: info@multiserviciosunisafer.com

Activity: Home and business repairs; authorized installer of
heating and sanitary hot water and gas.

Contact details of the person in charge:

By mail: Calle Ecuador 68, 28983 Parla (Madrid, Spain)

By email: info@unisafer.com

By phone: (34) 622073665

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

Through the web form Contact – Unsafer Services

What are your rights when you provide us with your data?

Anyone has the right to obtain confirmation as to whether we are treating
personal data that concerns them or not. In this sense, you have the right to request:

Access: The person who provides us with their data will have the right to obtain from the
responsible for the treatment confirmation of whether or not the data that you are receiving is being processed.
concerned, as well as detailed information about certain aspects of the
treatment being carried out.

Rectification: The person who provides us with their data will have the right to obtain the
rectification of inaccurate personal data that concerns you or that is
Complete those that were incomplete.

Deletion: The person who provides us with their data will have the right to request the
deletion of your personal data; In any case, the deletion will be subject to the
limits established in the regulatory standard.

Limitation of its treatment: The person who provides us with their data will have the right to
request the limitation of the processing of your personal data.

Opposition to treatment: In certain circumstances, and for reasons related
with their particular situation, the people who provide us with their data may oppose
to their treatment. The entity will stop treating them, except for reasons
legitimate, compelling, or the exercise or defense of possible claims.

Right to the portability of your data: The person who provides us with their data will have
right to receive the personal data that concerns you, those that you have provided to
the person responsible for the treatment, in a structured format, of common use and
mechanical reading, as well as to transmit them to any other person who may be
responsible for the treatment.

You can exercise the aforementioned rights by contacting the responsible person. For it,
You can use the contact information provided at the beginning of this document. Yes
You wish to obtain additional information regarding the exercise of your rights, also
You can contact the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD).

Likewise, we inform you that, and if you deem it appropriate, you have the right to withdraw in
any time the consent granted for a specific purpose, without
that this affects the legality of the treatment, based on the consent prior to its
withdrawal.

In the event that you understand that your rights have not been adequately addressed,
You can file a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
(C/ Jorge Juan, 6 – 28001 Madrid or at www.agpd.es).

Specific issues for each treatment activity:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

TREATMENT OF SECURITY BREACHES

For what purpose do we treat your personal data?

Management and notification of security breaches

How long will we process your data?

They will be kept for the time necessary to fulfill the purpose for which
collected and to determine the possible responsibilities that could be
derive from said purpose and from the processing of the data. Once that time has passed
will be canceled / suppressed ex officio.

Why do we treat your data?

Legal obligation.

To whom will your data be communicated?

Tax administration, Other public administration bodies.

CONTACT TREATMENT

For what purpose do we treat your personal data?

Manage and respond to requests for information and budget, as well as
maintain contact for professional or business purposes with natural persons,
including those representing legal persons, with which the entity maintains
relationship.

How long will we process your data?

They will be kept for the time necessary to fulfill the purpose for which
collected and to determine the possible responsibilities that could be
derive from said purpose and from the processing of the data. Once that time has passed
will be canceled / suppressed ex officio.

Why do we treat your data?

Legitimate interest.

To whom will your data be communicated?

No data is transferred to third parties, except legal obligations.

TREATMENT OF EXERCISE OF RIGHTS

For what purpose do we treat your personal data?

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

Management of the exercise of the rights contemplated in the legislation for the protection of
data and claim forms

How long will we process your data?

They will be kept for the time necessary to resolve the claims.

Why do we treat your data?

Legal obligation.

To whom will your data be communicated?

Other public administration bodies.

SERVICE PROVISION TREATMENT

For what purpose do we treat your personal data?

Own provision of our services derived from the activity, Tax management and
accounting in order to comply with legal obligations

How long will we process your data?

They will be kept for the time necessary to fulfill the purpose for which
collected and to determine the possible responsibilities that could be
derive from said purpose and from the processing of the data. Once that time has passed
will be canceled / suppressed ex officio.

Why do we treat your data?

Execution of a contract.

To whom will your data be communicated?
Tax administration, Organizations or persons directly related to the
responsible.

TREATMENT OF SUPPLIERS

For what purpose do we treat your personal data?

Management of the commercial relationship with suppliers.

How long will we process your data?

They will be kept for the time necessary to fulfill the purpose for which
collected and to determine the possible responsibilities that could be
derive from said purpose and from the processing of the data. Once that time has passed
will be canceled / suppressed ex officio.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

Why do we treat your data?

Execution of a contract.

To whom will your data be communicated?

Tax administration, Banks, savings banks and rural banks.

TREATMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES

For what purpose do we treat your personal data?

Management of the entity's workforce, including occupational risk prevention
and time control

How long will we process your data?

They will be kept for the time necessary to fulfill the purpose for which
collected and to determine the possible responsibilities that could be
derive from said purpose and from the processing of the data. Once that time has passed
will be canceled / suppressed ex officio.

Why do we treat your data?

Execution of a contract, Legitimate interest, Legal obligation.

To whom will your data be communicated?

Tax administration, Banks, savings banks and rural banks, Organizations of the
social security, Organizations or people directly related to the
responsible, Other public administration bodies.

PERSONNEL SELECTION TREATMENT

For what purpose do we treat your personal data?

Management of the relationship with candidates for employment in the entity

How long will we process your data?

They will be kept for the time necessary to fulfill the purpose for which
collected and to determine the possible responsibilities that could be
derive from said purpose and from the processing of the data. Once that time has passed
will be canceled / suppressed ex officio.

Why do we treat your data?

Consent and signature of the person.

To whom will your data be communicated?

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

No data is transferred to third parties, except legal obligations.

FIFTH: On May 17, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/07899/2020, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On May 20, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection direct two
warnings to UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L., with NIF B86512605, one for the
infringement of article 7 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD and another by
an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 b) of the RGPD.

SEVENTH: On May 31, 2021, allegations were filed for the
claimed to the proposed resolution, indicating that in the form that appears
A box has been incorporated into its web page to accept or not the treatment of the
data provided, in order to receive a response to the request for information, and
In addition, a brief overview of the basic information on
data protection that says the following:

“In accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (RGPD), as well as the provisions
placed in the national regulations on this matter, we inform you of the following:

The personal data provided will be the responsibility of the entity UNISAFER SER-
VICIOS, S.L., in addition, your personal data will be used for the following purposes:
data:

- Manage and respond to requests for information and budget, as well as maintain
have contact for professional or business purposes with natural persons, including
those that represent legal persons, with which the entity maintains relationships
tion.

All this under the legitimacy granted by the Legitimate Interest.

Data will not be transferred to third parties except legal obligations.

However, it is possible that certain external processors may
They give access to your data for the necessary provision of the service.

Regarding your rights, you can claim before the National Control Authority and in
at all times access, rectify and delete your data, limit them or even oppose
your treatment, request its portability to other controllers, sending us a communication
communication addressed to Calle ECUADOR, 68, CP 28983 PARLA, Madrid, or by sending-
send us an email to info@multiserviciosunisafer.com.

Finally, you can consult the additional and detailed information.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

FACTS

FIRST: It is reported that on the website http://multiserviciosunisafer.com/ the
consent for data processing, is not collected in a differentiated way, and
in the acceptance box at the bottom of the contact form it only says that they are accepted
the legal terms and conditions without reference to the treatment of what data in
which would imply the infringement of article 7 of the RGPD.

In addition, it is noted that the privacy policy of said website does not comply with the
personal data protection regulations.

SECOND: It is manifested by the claimed party that the update of
its website on April 9, 2021, thus partially addressing the purpose of the
claim.

THIRD: Despite the allegations of the respondent in response to the initiation agreement,
it is verified that the form has not been modified as it lacks a checkbox
consent at the bottom of the contact form and there is still no reference to the
treatment of the data that is treated and how the consent of the owner is obtained
of the personal data object of the treatment.

FOURTH: The respondent in response to the proposed resolution has proceeded to
incorporate a box at the bottom of the form so that the client can grant or not their
consent to the processing of your personal data, as well as a link
from which you can directly access the privacy policy, which is in accordance with the
current regulations on data protection.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
RGPD) recognizes each control authority, and according to what is established in the articles
47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to initiate
this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

13/17

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), under the rubric
“Definitions”, provides that:
“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;
2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”
Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal through forms included in a web page constitutes a treatment
of data, with respect to which the data controller must comply with the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD.
In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 7 of the RGPD regulates the conditions for consent, indicating what
Next:
"1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the person in charge
You must be able to demonstrate that you consented to the processing of your data
personal.
2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written statement
that also refers to other matters, the request for consent will be presented in
in such a way that it is clearly distinguishable from other matters, in an intelligible and
easy access and using clear and simple language. No part will be binding
of the statement that constitutes an infringement of this Regulation.
3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time. The
Withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving their consent, the interested party
will be informed of it. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.
4. When assessing whether the consent has been freely given, it will be taken into account in the
greatest extent possible whether, among other things, the performance of a contract,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

including the provision of a service, is subject to consent to the processing of
personal data that is not necessary for the execution of said contract.”

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, it has:
"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.
For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:
"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.
2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.
Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;”
(...)
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”
“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"
Article 83.5.a and b) of the RGPD establishes that:
 “The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9.

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

Article 72.1 c) of the LOPDGDD, establishes the following:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

c) Failure to comply with the requirements of Article 7 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 for the validity of consent”

In turn, article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
mild has:
  “They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a)
Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the
right of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by
Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

It has been verified that the respondent has recently proceeded to update
its website, resolving the deficiencies that are the object of this procedure.
Despite this, it should be noted that the warnings for the data continue to be maintained.
that were collected through a form without the checkbox
consent to the processing of personal data and without adequately informing
to customers, which is constitutive of the infractions of article 7 and article 13
of the GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

However, there will be two warnings without the need to adopt measures on the part of the
of the claimed, since it has already been corrected.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L., with NIF B86512605, for a
infringement of article 7 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning.

SECOND: ADDRESS UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L., with NIF B86512605, for a
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning.

THIRD
 

 : NOTIFY this resolution to UNISAFER SERVICIOS, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

