1/9

 File No.: PS/00327/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 28, 2021, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection resolution was issued in sanctioning procedure number
PS/00384/2020, filed against the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE CIVIL GUARD (in
below, the claimed party). In said resolution, in addition to sanctioning with a
warning, the adoption of the following measures was required:

"SECOND: REQUEST the entity GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE GUARD
CIVIL, so that, within a month, counted from the notification of this
resolution, adapt to the personal data protection regulations the operations
processing of personal data that it carries out, with the scope expressed in the
Foundation of Law VII. Within the indicated period, the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
CIVIL GUARD must justify before this Spanish Data Protection Agency
the attention of this requirement.”

In accordance with what is indicated in the aforementioned Legal Basis VII of the Resolution,
this requirement includes “the adoption of the necessary measures to carry out
that adaptation to the personal data protection regulations, preventing
the administrative actions that you carry out can be accessed by people who do not
directly intervene in its formalization. Specifically, in the case of
administrative notifications, it was warned that such notifications are delivered
directly to the interested party, without the intermediation of other unrelated units to which
are entrusted with the action in question; or, to try that
notification with the collaboration of some other unit, always preventing it from
can access the content of the act that is notified”.

In the same Fundamentals of Law, it was also expressly warned that
may admit "the delivery of documentation through the" direct command "of the
interested party or the sending of documents "in open" to be signed by the
concerned and returned to the sending unit", and that practices
inadequate, such as printing or keeping a copy of the documentation sent for its
delivery to the interested party.

SECOND: The resolution of the disciplinary procedure was notified
reliably on June 29, 2021 to the claimed party, granting him the
period of one month for the adoption of the imposed measures, as stated
certified in the file.

THIRD: On 07/09/2021, this Agency received a document presented by
the Data Protection Delegate (DPO) of the claimed party, who does not give
response on the measures adopted, limiting itself to stating that users who

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

involved in the treatment are obliged to keep confidentiality, which has been
established an internal procedure for notification of breaches and that this DPO is
deals with raising awareness and training all personnel involved in the treatment of
personal data, noting in this regard that, however, the human factor can
produce data leaks, highlighting in this regard the number of people who
are part of that institution.

FOURTH: On November 10, 2021, a new request was made to
the claimed party so that, within a month, they accredit before this Agency
have adopted the appropriate corrective measures, in accordance with what was agreed in the
aforementioned Resolution,
 modifying the processes followed for the delivery of
notifications so that its content cannot be accessed by third parties outside
the units in charge of processing the procedure in question.

This requirement was collected by the person in charge on November 10,
2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificate that is in the file.

FIFTH: On December 7, 2021, a letter was received in response to the new
requirement, in which the claimed party insists on what was previously provided,
noting its conviction that it has adopted the appropriate measures to give
compliance with the resolution.

In this new response, the defendant states, with regard to the
communications on the cessation of weapons licences, that it is essential that
members of the Corps participate who at least know the ultimate goal of such an act and who
are authorized to carry arms. Thus, it is clear to both parties who
is from that moment the custodian of the same. Therefore, it is indicated, the delivery
of these communications is made by the immediate superior of the interested party.

In addition, when, as in the present case, the addressee of the communication resides
in a location other than the destination, it is necessary to entrust the
action to the personnel of the nearest Civil Guard Post.

It is also reported that in this case the problem derived from sending the
communications without encrypting the attached documents, and it was this that could allow
third parties access your content. For this reason, Circular 1-2020 was issued, on
confidentiality, provided with their allegations to the resolution proposal, in which
it is indicated that these documents must be encrypted when they contain personal data,
facilitating access only to the processing unit; that confidentiality be guaranteed
in the delivery of the same, and that when it is necessary to have confirmation of
delivery to the interested party, this confirmation is obtained guaranteeing respect for the
privacy.

SIXTH: On May 12, 2022, the claimed party is required again so that,
within ten business days, prove to this Agency that they have adopted measures
to modify the processes that follow for the delivery of notifications to
the interested parties so that their content cannot be accessed by third parties
to the units in charge of processing the procedure in question,
paying special attention to the sending of documents "in open".

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

This requirement was collected by the person in charge on May 12, 2022,
as stated in the Notific@ certificate that is in the file.

SEVENTH: On May 24, 2022, a letter was received in response to the new
requirement, in which the claimed party states the following: that the
procedure established by Circular 1/2020 of the DPD is sufficient and guarantees the
confidentiality of personal data in accordance with current legislation; that he
Article 43 of Law 39/2015 of October 1 on the Common Administrative Procedure
of the Public Administrations allows the direct delivery of notifications by a
public employee of the notifying Administration, in this case the direct command of the
unit, when it is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the action
administrative; that the Circular states that all notifications that include data
messages are sent to password-encrypted folders; that even the agreements
initiation of proceedings may contain the adoption of precautionary measures that
imply executive actions by the command, so it is essential to
knowledge by the command of the unit of such agreements; that the case
The specific object of this procedure occurred due to a breach of the
procedure provided for in the Circular when the notification of the agreement is sent without
encrypt.

EIGHTH: Against the aforementioned resolution, in which the adoption of measures is required,
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not expressed his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

NINTH: On July 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 58.2 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.6 of the GDPR Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR).

TENTH: The aforementioned initiation agreement was collected by the person in charge on the 21st of
July 2022, as stated in the Notific@ certificate that is in the file.

ELEVENTH: Dated August 2, 2022 and entry registration number
REGAGE22e00034110370, the claimed party files a response to the
initiation agreement in which it states that actions have been carried out again
aimed at raising awareness and advising those responsible for the treatment of the
importance of adopting measures to guarantee the confidentiality of the
communications to be made within the framework of administrative procedures in which
appear as interested Civil Guards. The result of this has been the development and
dissemination of Circular 3/2022, which accompanies it, which details a procedure
for the delivery to the interested party of communications or resolutions that contain data
personal information that, on the one hand, seeks to guarantee that only he or she has access to their
content and on the other that the procedural requirements that
Allow proof of delivery.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

TWELFTH: On August 18, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
impose a warning sanction on the claimed party.

THIRTEENTH: Dated August 25, 2022 and entry registration number
REGAGE22e00036615027, the defendant submits a written statement of allegations to the
motion for a resolution stating that it is not possible to estimate the
non-compliance or inactivity of the claimed party with respect to the requirement of
adoption of measures formulated in its day by this Agency since the part
claimed has adopted or proposed the adoption of regulations that pursue the
adequacy of processing operations to the applicable legal framework in matters
of data protection, including surveillance measures and follow-up of the
compliance with said regulations.

Thus, Royal Decree 176/2022, of March 4, was published, which approves the
code of conduct for Civil Guard personnel. In addition, there is a project
Ministerial Order and General Order calls to regulate the withdrawal of firearms.
In short, these norms and normative projects pursue an adequate treatment
of personal data in the Institution and allow the necessary regulatory compliance
of a technical nature, such as Circular 3/2022, of the Data Protection Officer.

In addition, the Data Protection Delegate of the Corps has carried out a
intense activity of training and awareness of personnel in those of their
functions that include the processing of personal data, creating a specific area
on the Civil Guard Corporate Intranet. Similarly, the regulations dealing with the
protection of personal data in the Civil Guard has been addressed historically
by the Institution in a transversal way, granting it the maximum normative level in each
moment, as seen, for example, in the Organic Law 2/1986, of Forces and
Security Forces and in Organic Law 11/2007, of October 22, regulating
the rights and duties of the members of the Civil Guard.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The resolution of the disciplinary procedure and the requirements for the
compliance with the measures imposed therein indicated in the background
first, fourth and sixth were notified electronically, in accordance with the provisions
in article 43 of the LPACAP. Said resolution became firm and executive by the
expiration of the terms established for the filing of appeals in it
indicated.

SECOND: The claimed party has not sent a response to this Agency that proves
compliance with the measures imposed prior to the issuance of the
agreement to initiate this disciplinary procedure.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

THIRD: Notification of the agreement to start this procedure
disciplinary action was carried out electronically through the Notific@ system, being
collected by the person in charge on July 21, 2022.

FOURTH: The claimed party has submitted a document, included in the antecedent
eleventh, in response to what is referred to in the agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning. Circular 3/2022 is attached to said document, detailing a
procedure for the delivery to the interested party of communications or resolutions that
contain personal data, whose objective is to guarantee the confidentiality of the
Communications to be made within the framework of administrative procedures.

FIFTH: The notification of the resolution proposal was made electronically to
through the Notific@ system, being collected by the person in charge on August 18
of 2022.

SIXTH: The claimed party has submitted a written statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution of this disciplinary procedure included in the antecedent
thirteenth.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

Arguments to the second requirement

II

In response to the allegations presented by the claimed party prior to the
agreement to start this procedure, the following should be noted.

The claim refers to the notification of an administrative procedure (opening of
procedure), and not to an arms withdrawal agreement.

The requirement of measures is directly related to the practice of
administrative notifications, in general, and warned that such notifications should
be delivered directly to the interested party, without the intermediation of other external units

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

to those who are entrusted with the action in question; or, to try that
notification with the collaboration of some other unit, always preventing it from
can access the content of the act that is notified.

Circular 1-2020, on confidentiality, issued by the DPD, contemplates the sending of
communications with encrypted attachments; but also collects others
instructions regarding the delivery of documentation through the "direct command" of the
interested party or the sending of documents "in open" to be signed by the
concerned and returned to the sending unit. In this regard, the requirement
contained in the resolution of this Agency already warned that this cannot be accepted
delivery of open administrative notifications through the direct command of the
interested.

The foregoing is independent of the fact that the superior of the interested party must know
arms withdrawal agreements, among other things to proceed to make executive
the agreement and custody of said weapons, an issue that has not been the subject of the
proceedings and on which this Agency has not ruled. Even in case of
that the communication of this agreement to the superior of the interested party has a legitimate basis,
it would be necessary to determine if this legitimation reaches all the data and
personal circumstances (eg, complaints of gender violence) that come to light
manifest in the resolution adopting the arms withdrawal agreement or only in this
decision, in which case it may be necessary to consider the advisability of carrying out
a differentiated communication addressed to the superior of the interested party, informing
simply from repeated agreement.

II

Arguments to the Commencement Agreement

Regarding the brief presented by the claimed party in response to the agreement of
commencement of this proceeding, included in the eleventh precedent, in which
certifies the implementation of new measures, the following should be noted.

This Agency acknowledges receipt of the measures communicated, without this
declaration implies no pronouncement on the regularity or legality of said
measures.

Notice of the provisions of article 5.2 of the GDPR, which establishes the principle
of proactive responsibility when it states that "The person responsible for the treatment will be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of article 1 and capable of demonstrating it”.
This principle refers to the obligation that falls on the person responsible for the
treatment not only of designing, implementing and observing legal, technical
and organizational processes so that the data processing is in accordance with the
regulations, but to remain actively vigilant throughout the entire life cycle
of the treatment so that this compliance is correct, being also able to
prove it.

Allegations to the resolution proposal

IV.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

In response to the allegations to the resolution proposal, presented by the party
claimed, the following should be noted.

The resolution of the disciplinary procedure PS/00384/2020, which required the
adoption of measures and their justification before this Agency, for which a
response period of one month, was notified on June 29, 2021. Likewise,
twice again required the adoption of corrective measures and finally
agreed to start this sanctioning procedure on July 21, 2022, without
until that date the claimed party, despite the allegations and responses to the
requirements submitted, would have proven to this Agency compliance with
the concrete measures imposed on it.

The accreditation of having responded to the imposed measures has not been carried out
until the presentation of the allegations to the agreement to initiate this
procedure, by means of the instructions incorporated in Circular 3/2022, of 4
August 2022. Therefore, the communication of the measures adopted during the
instruction of this procedure does not affect the existence of the proven facts
constitutive of infringement.

V

unfulfilled mandate

Based on the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed breached the resolution of the Spanish Data Protection Agency with
regarding the measures that were imposed.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Proven Facts" section are considered
constituting an infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of the
Article 58.2.d) of the GDPR, which provides the following:

"2. Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Classification and classification of the offense

SAW

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the GDPR, which stipulates the following:

"Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority under article
58, section 2, will be penalized in accordance with section 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
the following behavior is very serious:

"m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

VII

sanction imputed

Article 83.7 of the GDPR provides the following:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:
(…)
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
likewise, the measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct it.
the effects of the offense committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested, if any.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE CIVIL GUARD, with NIF
S2816003D, for a violation of Article 58.2 of the GDPR, typified in Article
83.6 of the GDPR, a warning sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
CIVIL GUARD.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

