 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adopted 

EDPB - EDPS Joint Opinion 2/2021 
on the European Commission’s 
Implementing Decision on 
standard contractual clauses for 
the transfer of personal data to 
third countries 

for the matters referred to in Article 46(2)(c) 
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 

 

 

 

1 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1 

2 

BACKGROUND .............................................................................................................. 4 

GENERAL REASONING REGARDING THE DRAFT DECISION AND THE DRAFT SCCs ..................... 6 

2.1 

General structure and methodology of the Joint Opinion .............................................. 6 

General presentation  of  the  Draft Decision  and  Draft SCCs  and  interplay  with  the EDPB 
2.2 
Recommendations on supplementary measures.................................................................... 7 

3 

ANALYSIS OF THE DRAFT DECISION .................................................................................. 8 

3.1 

3.2 

References to the EUDPR (Recital (8)) ........................................................................ 8 

The scope of the Draft Decision and the notion of transfers (Article 1(1))  ........................ 8 

4 

ANALYSIS OF THE DRAFT SCCs ......................................................................................... 9 

4.1 

4.2 

General remark on the Draft SCCs ............................................................................. 9 

Section I ................................................................................................................ 9 

4.2.1 

Clause 1 - Purpose and scope............................................................................. 9 

4.2.2 

Clause 2 - Third party beneficiaries ....................................................................10 

4.2.3 

Clause 6 - Docking clause .................................................................................12 

4.3 

Section II - Obligations of the parties.........................................................................12 

4.3.1 
 

4.3.2 
 

4.3.3 
 

4.3.4 
 

Clause 1 - Data protection safeguards – Module One (Transfer controller to controller)
12 

Clause 1 - Data protection safeguards – Module Two (Transfer controller to processor)
14 

Clause 1 - Data protection safeguards – Module Three (Transfer processor to processor)
16 

Clause 1 - Data protection safeguards – Module Four (Transfer processor to controller)
17 

4.3.5 
Horizontal remarks - Clause  2 (Local laws affecting compliance with the Clauses)  and 
Clause 3 (Obligations of the data importer in case of government access requests)................17 

4.3.6 

Clause 2 – Local laws affecting compliance with the Clauses ..................................19 

4.3.7 

Clause 3 – Obligations of the data importer in case of government access requests ..21 

4.3.8 

Clause 5 - Data subject rights - Module One (Transfer controller to controller).........22 

4.3.9 
Clause  5  -  Data subject  rights -  Modules  Two (Transfer  controller to  processor)  and 
Three (Transfer processor to processor) ..........................................................................23 

4.3.10  Clause 5 - Data subject rights - Module Four (Transfer processor to controller) ........24 

4.3.11  Clause 6 - Redress ...........................................................................................24 

4.3.12  Clause 7 - Liability - Modules One (Transfer controller to controller) and Four (Transfer 
processor to controller).................................................................................................24 

4.3.13  Clause 7 - Liability - Modules Two (Transfer controller to processor) and Three (Transfer 
processor to processor).................................................................................................25 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

 

 

4.3.14  Clause 9 - Supervision ......................................................................................25 

4.4 

Section III - Final provisions .....................................................................................25 

4.4.1 

Clause 1 - Non-compliance with the Clauses and termination ................................25 

4.5 

Annexes................................................................................................................26 

 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection 
Supervisor 

Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection  of 
natural persons  with  regard to  the  processing  of  personal  data by  the Union  institutions,  bodies, 
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data, and  repealing  Regulation (EC)  No 
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC, 

Having  regard to  the  EEA  Agreement and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 

HAVE ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION 

1  BACKGROUND 

1. 

2. 

3. 

In compliance  with Article 44  of  Regulation (EU)  2016/679 of  the  European Parliament and of  the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and  on  the  free  movement of  such  data 2  (“GDPR”), any  transfer  of  personal  data which  are 
undergoing  processing  or  are  intended  for  processing  after  transfer  to  a  third  country  or  to  an 
international organisation shall  take place only  if  the  conditions  laid  down  in  Chapter V  GDPR are 
complied with by the controller and processor, including for onward transfers of personal data from 
the third country or an international organisation to another third country or to another international 
organisation. In particular, in the absence of  an adequacy decision,  any transfer should be based on 
appropriate safeguards listed in Article 46 GDPR.  

Standard data protection  clauses  adopted  by  the  European Commission  (or  the  “Commission”) in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 93(2) GDPR (“SCCs”) are one of the 
appropriate safeguards listed by Article 46 GDPR. 

In order to be valid, SCCs must incorporate effective mechanisms that make it possible, in practice, to 
ensure compliance with the level of protection required by EU law and that transfers of personal data 
pursuant to these clauses are suspended or prohibited in the event of the breach of such clauses or if 
it is impossible to honour them3. 

                                                             

 

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation); OJ L 119, 04.05.2016, p. 1 –88.  
3 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 16 July 2020; Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Limited and Maximillian Schrems; Case C-311/18; para 137. 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

On 15 June 2001, the Commission  adopted Decision 2001/497/EC on standard contractual clauses for 
the  transfer  of  personal  data  to  third  countries,  under  Directive  95/46/EC 4 ,  as  amended  by 
Commission  Implementing  Decision  (EU)  2016/2297  of  16  December  2016 5  (“the  2001  SCCs”), 
complemented by Commission  Decision of 27 December 20046 (“the 2004 SCCs”). 

On 5 February 2010, the Commission  adopted Decision 2010/87/EU on standard contractual clauses 
for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to  processors  established  in  third  countries  under  Directive 
95/46/EC7, later amended by  Commission  Implementing Decision (EU)  2016/2297 of  16  December 
20168 (“the 2010 SCCs”).   

On 16 July 2020, the Court of Justice of the EU (“CJEU” or “the Court”) ruled that the examination of 
the 2010 SCCs in the light of Articles 7, 8 and 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights disclosed nothing  
to affect the validity of that decision (“the Schrems II ruling”)9.  

In the same case, the CJEU also provided for additional clarifications on the use of SCCs. In particular, 
the CJEU ruled that data subjects whose personal data are transferred to a third country pursuant to 
standard  data protection  clauses  should  be  afforded,  as  in  the  context of  a transfer  based  on  an 
adequacy decision, a level of protection essentially equivalent to that which is guaranteed within the 
European Union10. 

The CJEU added that “[s]ince by their inherently contractual nature standard data protection clauses 
cannot bind  the public  authorities of third countries [...] it may  prove necessary to supplement the 
guarantees contained in those standard data protection clauses.” 11. 

                                                             

 

4 2001/497/EC: Commission  Decision of 15 June 2001 on standard  contractual  clauses  for  the transfer of 
personal data to third countries, under Directive 95/46/EC; OJ L 181, 04.07.2001, p. 19 -31. 
5 Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/2297 of 16 December 2016 amending Decisions 2001/497/EC 
and 2010/87/EU on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries and to 
processors established in such countries, under Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council; OJ L 344, 17.12.2016, p. 100–101. 
6 2004/915/EC: Commission Decision of 27 December 2004 amending Decision 2001/497/EC as regards the 
introduction of an alternative set of standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third 
countries; OJ L 385, 29.12.2004, p. 74–84. 
7 2010/87/: Commission Decision of 5 February 2010 on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal 
data to processors established in third countries under Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of 
the Council; OJ L 39, 12.2.2010, p. 5–18. 
8 Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/2297 of 16 December 2016 amending Decisions 2001/497/EC 
and 2010/87/EU on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries and to 
processors established in such countries, under Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the 
Council; OJ L 344, 17.12.2016, p. 100–101. 
9 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 16 July 2020; Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Limited and Maximillian Schrems; Case C-311/18; para 149. 
10 Ibid, para 96 
11 Ibid, para 132 

Adopted 

 

5 

 

9. 

Consequently, on 10 November 2020, the EDPB adopted its Recommendations 01/2020 on measures 
that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data 
(“the EDPB Recommendations on supplementary measures”)12.  

10. 

On 12 November 2020, the Commission  published:  

11. 

12. 

13. 

  A draft Commission  Implementing Decision  on standard contractual clauses for the transfer 
of  personal  data to third  countries pursuant  to  Regulation (EU)  2016/679 of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council (“the Draft Decision”); and  

  A draft Annex to the Commission  Implementing Decision on standard contractual clauses for 
the transfer of personal data to third countries pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council (“the Draft SCCs”).  

The Draft Decision plans to repeal the 2001, 2004 and 2010 SCCs.  

The  Draft SCCs  combine  general  clauses  with  a  modular  approach  to  cater  for  various  transfer 
scenarios.  In addition  to  the general  clauses,  controllers  and  processors  should  select the  module 
applicable to their situation among the four following modules:   

  Module One: transfer controller to controller;  

  Module Two: transfer controller to processor;  

  Module Three: transfer processor to processor;  

  Module Four: transfer processor to controller.  

In this context, on 12 November 2020, the Commission  requested the EDPB and the EDPS to issue a 
Joint Opinion on the Draft Decision and the Draft SCCs (“the Joint Opinion”), in compliance with Article 
42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 
on  the protection  of  natural persons  with  regard to  the processing  of  personal  data by  the  Union 
institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data (“EUDPR”)13. 

2  GENERAL  REASONING  REGARDING  THE  DRAFT  DECISION  AND 

THE DRAFT SCCs 

2.1  General structure  and methodology  of the Joint Opinion   

14. 

First, for the sake of clarity, the Joint Opinion comprises (i) a core part detailing general comments the 
EDPB and the EDPS wish  to make and (ii)  an annex where additional comments of  a more technical 
nature are made directly to the Draft SCCs,  notably in  order to provide  some  examples of  possible 
amendments. There is no hierarchy between the general comments and the technical ones.  

                                                             

 

12 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/consultation/edpb_recommendations_202001_supplementarymea
surestransferstools_en.pdf.  
13 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725  of the  European  Parliament and of  the  Council  of 23 October 2018 on the 
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, 
offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and 
Decision No 1247/2002/EC; OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39–98. 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

Second, the general comments on the Draft Decision and the Draft SCCs are presented in two separate 
sections. Where needed, cross-references are made to ensure consistency.  

Third, for the sake of consistency, where needed, cross-references are also made to the Joint Opinion 
of the EDPB and the EDPS on standard contractual clauses between controllers and processors under 
Article 28(7) GDPR and Article 29(7) EUDPR.  

2.2  General presentation  of the Draft Decision and Draft SCCs and interplay with the 

EDPB Recommendations  on supplementary  measures   

Overall, the  EDPB and  the  EDPS note  with satisfaction  that the Draft Decision  and  the Draft  SCCs 
present a reinforced level of protection for data subjects.  

Following  up on the EDPB contribution for the evaluation of the  GDPR under Article 97 GDPR14, the 
EDPB and the EDPS welcome the fact that this update of existing SCCs  intends to:  

  Bring the SCCs in line with new GDPR requirements15. 

  Better reflect  the widespread  use  of  new  and  more  complex  processing  operations  often 
involving multiple data importers and data exporters, long and complex processing chains, as 
well as evolving business relationships. This means covering additional processing and transfer 
situations  and  using  a more  flexible  approach, for  example with respect to  the number  of 
parties able to join the contract16.  

  Provide  for  specific  safeguards  to  address  the  effect  of  the  laws  of  the  third  country  of 
destination on the data importer’s compliance with the clauses, and in particular how to deal 
with binding requests from public authorities in the third country for disclosure of the personal 
data transferred17. 

19. 

In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS welcome the specific provisions intending to address some of the 
main issues  identified in the Schrems II ruling, and in particular the provisions  of the Draft SCCs on:  

  Third country’s laws affecting compliance with the Draft SCCs  (Section II - Clause 2);  

  Access requests received by the data importer and issued by third country’s public authorities 

(Section II - Clause 3); and 

  Optional ad-hoc redress mechanism to the benefit of data subjects (Section II - Clause 6).  

20. 

21. 

In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS note with satisfaction that the Draft SCCs reflect several measures 
identified in the EDPB Recommendations on supplementary measures, although for some others the 
EDPB and the EDPS call for more consistency, as notably detailed in Section 4.3.6 below. 

In this  context, the EDPB and  the  EDPS recall that the  EDPB Recommendations  on  supplementary 
measures will  remain relevant to be applied after the adoption  of  the Draft SCCs.  In particular, the 

                                                             

 

14 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_contributiongdprevaluation_20200218.pdf. 
15 Draft Commission Implementing Decision on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to 
third countries pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Recital 6.  
16 Ibid, Recital 6. 
17 Ibid, Recital 18.  

Adopted 

 

7 

 

EDPB and the EDPS call on the Commission  to clarify that there may still be situations where, despite 
the use of the new SCCs,  ad-hoc supplementary measures will remain necessary to be implemented 
in order to ensure that data subjects are afforded a level of protection essentially equivalent to that 
guaranteed  within  the  EU.  As  such,  the  new  SCCs  will  have  to  be  used  along  with  the  EDPB 
Recommendations  on  supplementary  measures.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  invite  the  European 
Commission  to refer to the final version of the EDPB Recommendations on supplementary measures, 
should  the final version of the Recommendations be updated before the Draft Decision and the Draft 
SCCs18. 

3  ANALYSIS  OF THE DRAFT DECISION 

3.1  References to the EUDPR (Recital (8))  

22. 

The EDPB and the EDPS take note that Recital (8) of the Draft Decision reads as follows:  

“The standard contractual clauses may also be used for the transfer of personal data to a sub-processor 
in a third country by a processor that is not a Union institution or body, processing personal data on 
behalf of such an Union institution or body in accordance with Article 29 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 
of the European Parliament and of the Council. Doing so will also ensure compliance with Article 29(4) 
of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, to the extent these clauses and the data protection obligations as set 
out in the contract or other legal act between the controller and the processor pursuant  to Article 29(3) 
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 are aligned. This  will in  particular be the case where the controller and 
processor rely on the standard contractual clauses included in Decision [….]”.  

The EDPB and the EDPS understand that the intention of the Commission is that the Draft SCCs should 
cover processing operations between processors and sub-processors  for which the controller is an EU 
institution, body, office or agency (“EUI”) subject to the EUDPR. 

In this respect, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the relevant requirements of the EUDPR should 
be  reflected throughout the entire  chain of  contracts when  a EUI is  the controller.  This  should  be 
further clarified in the Draft Decision and Draft SCCs.  

In any  event, the EDPB and  the EDPS recall that it  remains always possible  for the  Commission  to 
remove any reference to the EUDPR if it decides  not to apply the draft Article 46  SCCs  to relations 
between processors  and sub-processors  being part of a processing operation for which the controller 
is a EUI subject to the EUDPR. 

3.2  The scope of the Draft Decision and the notion  of transfers (Article 1(1)) 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

First, Article 1(1) of the Draft Decision provides that:  

“The  standard  contractual  clauses  set  out  in  the  Annex  are  considered  to  provide  appropriate 
safeguards within the meaning of Article 46(1) and (2)(c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 for the transfer 
of personal data from a controller or processor subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (data exporter) to 
a controller or (sub-) processor not subject to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (data importer).”  

                                                             

 

18 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/consultation/edpb_recommendations_202001_supplementarymeasu
restransferstools_en.pdf. This document was submitted for public consultation until 21 December 2020 and is 
still subject to possible further modifications on the basis of the results of the public consultation. 

Adopted 

 

8 

 

27. 

In view of the above and of the title the Draft Decision, the EDPB and the EDPS understand that the 
Draft Decision does not cover:  

  Transfers to a data importer not in  the EEA but subject  to the GDPR for a given processing 

under Article 3(2) GDPR; and  

  Transfers to international organisations. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

Keeping this in mind, for the avoidance of doubt, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend the Commission 
to clarify that these provisions are only intended to address the issue of the scope of the Draft Decision 
and the draft SCCs  themselves, and not the scope of the notion of transfers. 

Second, the EDPB already clarified  in  its  Guidelines  on  the  territorial scope  of  the  GDPR 19  that a 
controller or processor is never subject as such to the GDPR, but only in relation to a given processing 
activity.  

Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  rephrasing  Article  1(1)  of  the  Draft  Decision 
accordingly.  

4  ANALYSIS  OF THE DRAFT SCCs 

4.1  General remark  on the Draft SCCs 

The EDPB and  the EDPS welcome the introduction  of  specific  modules  for each transfer scenarios. 
However, the EDPB and the EDPS note that it is  not clear whether one  set of the  SCCs  can include 
several  modules  in  practice to  address  different  situations,  or  whether this  should  amount  to the 
signing  of  several  sets  of  the  SCCs.  In  order  to  achieve  maximum  readability  and  easiness  in  the 
practical application  of  the SCCs,  the  EDPB and  the  EDPS  suggest  that  the  European  Commission 
provides additional guidance (e.g. in the form of flowcharts, publication of Frequently Asked Questions 
(FAQs),  etc.). In particular, it should  be  made clear that the combination  of  different modules  in a 
single set of SCCs cannot lead to the blurring of roles and responsibilities  among the parties.  

4.2  Section I 

4.2.1  Clause 1 - Purpose and scope 

In relation to the reference to standard contractual clauses pursuant to Article 28(7) GDPR included in 
Clause 1(c), the EDPB and the EDPS consider that it is important to clearly explain in the Draft Decision, 
the articulation and interplay between this set of  SCCs and the SCCs pursuant to Article 28(7) GDPR. It 
should be made clear to the parties, already in the Draft Decision, that when parties intend to benefit 
from SCCs both under Article 28(7) and Article 46(2)(c) GDPR, then the parties need to rely on transfer 
SCCs.  According  to Clause  1(c)  of  the  Draft SCCs,  the parties  are allowed  to  add  other  clauses  or 
additional safeguards “provided that they do not contradict, directly or indirectly,” the Draft SCCs. To 
provide  controllers  and  processors  with  legal  certainty, the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  would  welcome 
clarifications on the type of clauses  that the European Commission  would  consider as contradicting 
directly  or  indirectly  the  Draft  SCCs.  Such  clarification  could,  for  instance,  indicate  that  clauses 
contradicting the Draft SCCs would be those that undermine / negatively impact the obligations in the 
Draft SCCs  or  prevent  compliance  with  the  obligations  contained  in  the  Draft SCCs.  For  example, 
                                                             

 

19https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_3_2018_territorial_scope_after_public_
consultation_en_1.pdf.  

Adopted 

 

9 

 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

clauses allowing processors to use the data for their own purposes would be contrary to the obligation 
of the processor to process personal data only on behalf of the controller and for the purposes and by 
the means identified by the latter.  

4.2.2  Clause 2 - Third party beneficiaries 

Pursuant to Section, I Clause 2, “Data subjects may invoke and enforce these Clauses, as third party 
beneficiaries”. However, this right solely applies to the provisions that are not listed under this Clause 
2. For the sake of  providing clear and unambiguous  information  to data subjects  on their rights, as 
well as to controllers and processors  that will use the Clauses on those third party beneficiary rights, 
the EDPB and the EDPS invite the European Commission  to provide, under this Clause 2, a ‘positive’ 
list  of  the  rights  that  are  enforceable  by  data  subjects,  instead  of  listing  those  that  are  not 
enforceable20. 

In terms of substance, the EDPB and the EDPS note that a number of the provisions included in the list 
provided in Clause 2 should  actually be made enforceable by data subjects, hence should  be deleted 
from that list.  

The EDPB and the EDPS are of the view that, as this is currently the case in the previous sets of SCCs 
adopted  by  the  European  Commission 21 ,  and  as  it  is  required  by  SAs  for  binding  corporate  rules 
(“BCRs”), Section I Clause 2 (Third party beneficiaries) itself should be subject to enforceability by 
data subjects.  

Concerning  Section I,  Clauses 3  (Interpretation) and 4  (Hierarchy), it  should  be  noted  that if  the 
parties do not respect the rules on interpretation and on the hierarchy of documents, it may have an 
impact on  data subjects and their rights. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS believe that this Clause 
should  be made enforceable by data subjects.  

Under  Section II, Module Two:  Clause 1.9(a)  and Module Three: Clause 1.9(a)  contain  the same 
requirements. They cover the data importer’s obligation to deal with the data exporter’s inquiries (as 
well as the controller’s inquiries,  for Module Three). If breached, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the 
view that these two Clauses may have an impact on  data subjects and their rights, hence should be 
deemed enforceable by data subjects, as this is currently the case in the previous sets of SCCs adopted 
by the European Commission22.   

Under Section II, Module Three: Clause 1.1(a) relates to the data exporter’s obligation to inform the 
data importer that it acts under the controller’s instructions; Clause 1.1(b) sets out the data importer’s 
obligation to process  the personal data under the controller’s instructions and those transmitted by 
the  data exporter; and  Clause  1.1(c)  relates to  the  data importer’s  obligation  to  inform  the  data 
exporter  when  the  data  importer  is  unable  to  follow  those  instructions  and  the  data  exporter’s 
obligation to notify it to the controller. The EDPB and the EDPS note that a breach of Section II, Module 
Three: Clause 1.1(a), (b), and (c) may have an impact on data subjects and their rights, hence should 

                                                             

 

20 This would be better aligned with the way Chapter III GDPR is drafted, as well as with the previous sets of SCCs 
adopted by the European Commission (see Clause 3 2001 SCCs; Clause III(b) 2004 SCCs; and Clause 3.1 2010 
SCCs).  
21 See Clause 3 in 2001 SCCs; Clause III(b) in 2004 SCCs; Clause 3 in 2010 SCCs. 
22 See Clause 5(e) in 2010 SCCs. 

Adopted 

 

10 

 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

be made enforceable by them, as this is currently the case in the previous sets of SCCs adopted by the 
European Commission23.   

Under Section II, Module Four: Clause 1.1, the EDPB and the EDPS note that Clause 1.1(a) and (b) 
relate to the data exporter’s obligation, respectively to process  the data under  the data importer’s 
instructions  and  to  inform  the  data  importer  if  the  data exporter  is  unable  to  comply  with  the 
controller’s instructions  or if they infringe Union or Member State’s data protection law; and Clause 
1.1(c) covers  the data importer’s obligation  to  refrain from  taking any  action preventing  the data 
exporter from fulfilling its obligations under GDPR. Section II, Module Four: Clause 1.3 touches upon 
the parties’ ability to demonstrate compliance with their commitments taken under the SCCs. 

Given that a breach of the commitments set out under Section II, Module Four: Clause 1.1(a), (b), and 
(c),  and Clause  1.3  may  have  an  impact  on  data subjects  and  their  rights, they  should  be  made 
enforceable by data subjects.  

The EDPB and the EDPS note that non-compliance  with sub-processing  commitments may have an 
impact on  data subjects  and  their rights, thus  Section II, Clause 4(a), (b),  and (c)  should  be made 
enforceable by data subjects, as this is currently the case in the previous  sets of SCCs  adopted by the 
European Commission24. 

The EDPB and the EDPS note that Section II, Clause 9(b) deals with the data importer’s agreement to 
cooperate with the competent supervision  authority. As a breach of  this commitment may have an 
impact on  data subjects  and  their rights, the EDPB and  the EDPS consider  that it  should  be made 
enforceable by data subjects, as this is currently the case in the previous  sets of SCCs  adopted by the 
European Commission25,  as well as in BCRs26.  

The EDPB and  the EDPS note  that, Section III, Clause 1(a)  provides  for  the obligation  on  the data 
importer  to  inform  the  data  exporter if  it  cannot  comply  with  the  SCCs,  from  which  follows  the 
obligation for the data exporter to suspend  the transfer(s) (Clause  1(b)), which may then terminate 
the contract upon certain conditions (Clause 1(c)) and instruct the data importer on what happens to 
the data after such termination (Clause 1(d)). 

Since these provisions  touch upon situations  where the data importer cannot comply  with the  SCCs 
and/or is in breach of the SCCs, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the view that a violation of Section III, 
Clause 1(a), (b), (c), and (d) may have an impact on data subjects and their rights, and should therefore 

                                                             

 

23 This comment only applies for Section II Module Three: Clause 1.1(b) (see Clause 5(a) in 2010 SCCs) and Clause 
1.1(c) (see Clause 5(b) in 2010 SCCs) of the Draft SCCs. There is no equivalent of Section II Module Three: Clause 
1.1(a) in the previous SCCs. 
24 See Clause 5(h)(i) and (j) in 2010 SCCs. 
25 See Clause 5(c) in 2001 SCCs; Clause II(e) in 2004 SCCs; Clause 8.2 in 2010 SCCS. 
26 See Article 47(2)(l) GDPR. See also Section 3.1 of the Working Document setti ng up a table with the elements 
and principles to be found in BCRs (WP256 rev.01), adopted by the Article 29 Working Party and endorsed by 
the  EDPB, http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614109; and Section 3.1 of the 
Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found in Processor BCRs (WP257 
rev.01), 
the  Article  29  Working  Party  and 
EDPB, 
http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=614110. 

endorsed  by 

adopted  by 

the 

Adopted 

 

11 

 

45. 

46. 

47. 

48. 

be  able to  enforce them, as this  is  currently  the case in  the previous  sets  of  SCCs  adopted by  the 
European Commission27,  as well as in BCRs28.  

4.2.3  Clause 6 - Docking clause  

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome the inclusion  of  a docking  clause in  Clause 6, which allows, as an 
option, any entity to accede to the Draft SCCs and therefore to become a new party to the contract as 
a controller  or as  a processor.  The qualification  and  the role  of  the parties  to the contract  should 
appear clearly in the Annexes, especially in the case where new parties accede to the contract. Thus, 
the  Annex  should  detail  and  delimit  the  allocation  of  responsibilities,  and  indicate  clearly  which 
processing  is  carried  out  by  which  processor(s)  on  behalf  of  which  controller(s),  and  for  which 
purposes.   

Clause 6(a) makes the accession of new parties to the Draft SCCs conditional  upon the agreement of 
all  the  other  parties. In  order  to  avoid  any  difficulties  in  practice, the  EDPB a nd  the  EDPS  would 
welcome a clarification on the way such agreement could be given by the other parties (e.g. whether 
it has to be provided in writing, the deadline, the information needed before agreeing). Moreover, the 
EDPB and the EDPS would  welcome clarification as to whether and how  such agreement has to be 
given by all the parties, irrespective of their qualification and role in the processing.  

4.3  Section II - Obligations of the parties 

4.3.1  Clause 1 - Data protection safeguards – Module One (Transfer controller to controller)  

4.3.1.1  Scope of Module One (Transfer controller to controller) 

This  module  seems  to  cover  transfers  between  controllers  acting  as  independent  or  separate 
controllers. In order to avoid any ambiguity, the EDPB and the EDPS call on the Commission  to assess 
and clarify, in the Draft Decision or in the Draft SCCs, if this module is only  relevant for independent 
or  separate controllers, or  if  it could  also  be  used  in  joint  controllership  scenarios  with  regard to 
processing  of  personal  data  carried  out  by  joint-controllers  where  one  of  the  joint  controller  is 
established outside of the EU and not subject the GDPR.    

4.3.1.2  Clause 1.2 - Transparency 

Clause 1.2(a) of the Draft SCCs lists the elements on which the data importer must provide information 
to  data  subjects  whose  personal  data are  transferred. To  ensure  full  transparency  and  put  data 
subjects  in  a  position  to  exercise  their  rights  as  provided  by  this  clause, the  EDPB and  the  EDPS 
consider that the list of elements should further be completed, so as to be brought in line with Article 
14(1) and (2) GDPR relating to indirect collection of data. As such, this clause should be complemented 
with information on  the types of  personal data processed  by the data importer, and  the period  for 
which personal data will be stored by the latter (or criteria used to determine it).  

49. 

In  addition,  this  clause  should  specify  the  timing  in  which  the  data  importer  shall  provide  this 
information to data subjects so as to meet the conditions  set out by Article 14(3) GDPR. 

                                                             

 

27 See Clause 5(a) in 2001 SCCs; Clause II(c) in 2004 SCCs; Clauses 5(a) and (b), and Clause 12.1 in 2010 SCCs.  
28 See Section 6.3 of the Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found in 
BCRs (WP256 rev.01); and Section 6.3 of the Working Document setting up a table with the elements and 
principles to be found in Processor BCRs (WP257 rev.01). 

Adopted 

 

12 

 

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

Furthermore, it results from  Clause 1.2(b) that the data importer may be exempted from providing 
information  to  data  subjects  in  accordance  with  Clause  1.2(a),  notably  where  providing  such 
information  proves  impossible  or  would  involve  a  disproportionate  effort  in  which  case  the  data 
importer shall, to the extent possible, make the information publicly available. The use of the term “to 
the extent possible” does not appear in line with Article 14(5)(b) GDPR and should  be deleted.  Indeed, 
Article 14(5)(b)  GDPR does  not provide  for  such  condition  but rather sets  a clear requirement that 
information is  made publicly  available to the data subject where providing  such information proves 
impossible  or would involve a disproportionate without any possible  derogation.  

4.3.1.3  Clause 1.5 - Security of processing  

In connection with the data importer’s obligation to implement appropriate measures to ensure the 
security of transferred data, Clause 1.5(a) specifies  that the parties shall consider  “encryption during 
transmission  and  anonymisation  or  pseudonymisation,  where  this  does  not  prevent fulfilling  the 
purpose of processing”. In relation to the reference to anonymization, the EDPB and the EDPS recall 
that if personal data are anonymized, the obligations under the GDPR are no longer applicable.  

4.3.1.4  Clause 1.7 - Onward transfers  

The obligations of the data importer under this clause raise several issues: 

First of all, the EDPB and the EDPS note that this clause does not include a commitment from the data 
importer to notify the data exporter of the existence of an onward transfer as is the case in the 2004 
SCCs  for transfers from controllers to controllers. The EDPB and  the EDPS do not see the reason for 
not replicating this obligation  in the proposed  Draft SCCs.  Such information  of  the data exporter is 
essential to allow the latter to comply with its obligations  under  Article 44 GDPR, which specifically 
refer to onward transfers and ensure accountability, as required by the GDPR, for any processing in 
this specific case for the processing subject to the onward transfer.  

Further, Clause 1.7 provides that the data importer may carry out an onward transfer if the third party 
is or agrees to be bound  by the Draft SCCs. It is unclear however, how this  provision  would  work in 
practice if the third party concerned is a processor, notably  how it would  be bound  by  the clauses, 
which requirements will apply to it, and whether the parties could add another module (i.e. Module 
Two) that would  be relevant for that situation. This  point requires  clarification in the  Draft SCCs  to 
avoid  any confusion  in  practice, and ensure  legal certainty for the parties. In addition,  it should  be 
made clear that the third party should assess whether it is able to comply with the obligations set out 
by the Draft SCCs  under the third country law applicable to this third party and, where necessary, to 
implement supplementary measures to ensure a level of protection essentially equivalent to the one 
required in the EEA. 

In addition, Clause 1.7(iii) specifies, amongst other conditions, that an onward transfer may be allowed 
where the data importer and the third party enter into an agreement ensuring “the same level of data 
protection” as under the Draft SCCs. According to the EDPB and the EDPS, the reference to the “same 
level of data protection” does not appear sufficient as the agreement needs to replicate in substance 
the same guarantees and obligations as those contained in the Draft SCCs  to ensure the continuity of 
the protection in line with Article 44 GDPR. This clause should be amended accordingly, by stating that 
the agreement must impose  the same obligations  as those included  in  the  Draft SCCs  between the 
data exporter and the data importer. In addition, a specific obligation shall be added in this case for 
the parties to assess whether they are able to comply with the obligations set out by such agreement 
under  the  third  country  law  applicable  to  this  third  party, and,  where  necessary,  to  implement 
supplementary measures to ensure a level of protection essentially equivalent to the one required in 
the EEA. 

Adopted 

 

13 

 

56. 

57. 

58. 

59. 

60. 

Furthermore, an obligation should be added for the data importer to provide data subjects with a copy 
of the safeguards implemented for the onward transfer, upon request. The provision of a copy of such 
safeguards  to  data subjects  contributes  to  the  transparency  which  is  required  in  relation  to  the 
transfer of their data. 

Finally, Clause 1.7(iv) sets out that an onward transfer could be carried out where the data importer 
has obtained the explicit consent of the data subject. The possibility  of relying on the data subject’s 
consent corresponds  to the derogation for specific situations envisaged by Article 49(1)(a) GDPR. The 
EDPB and the EDPS are of  the opinion  that the derogatory and exceptional nature of this possibility 
needs to be stated in the Draft SCCs, in particular compared to other possibilities  for framing onward 
transfers referred in  this  clause. As  such,  it must be  specified  that the consent of  the data subject 
could,  as  an  exception, frame  the onward  transfers  only  if  other  mechanisms  listed  in  Clause  1.7 
cannot be relied upon. Also, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that the Commission should 
assess  the possibility  of  onward transfers in particular for the establishment, exercise or defence of 
legal claims, and to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of other persons.   

4.3.2  Clause 1 - Data protection safeguards – Module Two (Transfer controller to processor)  

4.3.2.1  Clause 1.5 - Storage limitation and erasure or return of the data  

Clause  1.5  of  the  Draft SCCs  stipulates  that upon  termination  of  the  provision  of  the  processing 
services, the data importer shall  delete all  personal  data processed  on  behalf  of the data exporter 
(option 1) or return to the data exporter all personal data processed on its behalf, and delete existing 
copies  (option 2). The EDPB and the EDPS are of  the opinion  that this wording conflicts with Article 
28(3)(g)  GDPR,  which  provides  for  that  deletion  or  returning  takes  place  “at  the  choice  of  the 
controller”. Accordingly, Clause 1.5 should  provide  for that deletion or returning of personal  data to 
take place at the choice of  the data exporter acting as a controller to avoid  any ambiguity that such 
choice is not up to the data importer acting as a processor. 

In addition, this clause provides  that in case the data importer does not delete or return the data to 
the data exporter due to local requirements applicable to the data importer, it will guarantee the level 
of protection required by the Draft SCCs “to the extent possible”. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that 
if data are to be kept by the data importer, the protection provided by the Draft SCCs needs to be fully 
ensured and without exceptions, to allow for the continuity of the protection. As a consequence, the 
terms “to the extent possible” should be deleted from this clause.  

Moreover, Clause 1.5 sets forth that the data importer’s obligation to return or delete the personal 
data is notwithstanding any requirements “under local law” which prohibits return or destruction. This 
wording amounts to contradicting Article 28(3)(g) GDPR. The Commission  should  clarify in the Draft 
SCCs  that only the requirements of local laws that respect the essence of the fundamental rights and 
freedoms and do not exceed what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard 
one of the objectives listed in Article 23(1) GDPR should  be taken into account under this clause. The 
EDPB and the EDPS consider that specific legal requirements in terms of data retention periods under 
local laws, types of data, and retention periods should be explicitly specified under Annex I.B. 

4.3.2.2  Clause 1.6 - Security of processing 

61. 

Similarly as in Module One, Clause 1.6(a) specifies that in order to ensure the security of data as part 
of  the  transfer,  the  parties  shall  consider  “encryption  during  transmission  and  anonymisation  or 
pseudonymisation, where this does not prevent fulfilling  the purpose of processing”. In relation to the 
reference to anonymization, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that if personal  data is  anonymized, the 
obligations under the GDPR are no longer applicable. 

Adopted 

 

14 

 

62. 

63. 

64. 

65. 

Furthermore, Clause  1.6(d) provides  for the data importer’s obligation to cooperate “in good faith” 
and assist the data exporter to comply with its obligations under the GDPR. The terms “in good faith” 
are not used in other parts of the SCCs where an obligation of cooperation is mentioned and the EDPB 
and the EDPS do  not see the need  for such  specification, which, in  any case, would  go beyond  the 
provisions  of the GDPR on that matter. It should thus be deleted.  

4.3.2.3  Clause 1.8 - Onward transfers  

Clause  1.8(i)  should  be  completed  with  an  obligation  for  the  data  importer  to  provide  the  data 
exporter, upon  request, with a copy of the safeguards implemented for framing onward transfers to 
a third party. Such obligation was included in the controller to processor 2010 SCCs. The EDPB and the 
EDPS do not see the reason for its exclusion  from the proposed  Draft SCCs,  as the provision  of these 
safeguards constitute an important element for the data exporter’s obligation under GDPR to ensure 
accountability with respect to the transfers it carries out, including onward transfers.  

An obligation should also be added for the data importer to provide data subjects with a copy of these 
safeguards upon request, as is the case in the controller to processor  2010 SCCs. As above, the EDPB 
and the EDPS do not see the reason for excluding such obligation from the proposed  Draft SCCs. The 
provision  of these safeguards to the data subject contribute to the transparency which is required in 
relation to the transfer of their data. 

4.3.2.4  Clause 1.9 - Documentation and compliance  

Clause 1.9(d) of the Draft SCCs  provides for the possibility  for the data exporter, in order to conduct 
audits,  to  rely  on  an  independent  auditor  mandated  by  the  data  importer.  This  provision  is  not 
foreseen in  Article 28(3)(h)  GDPR, and needs to be aligned with this article which provides  that the 
processor has to allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections, that are conducted by the 
controller or another auditor mandated by the controller29. As such, the processor might propose an 
auditor, but the decision about the auditor has to be left to the controller according to Art icle 28(3)(h) 
GDPR. The controller’s right to choose the auditor should not be limited from the outset. Clause 1.9(d) 
also states that where the data exporter mandates an independent auditor, it shall bear the costs, and 
where the data importer mandates an audit, it has to bear the costs of the independent  auditor. As 
the issue  of allocation of  costs between a controller and  a processor  is  not  regulated by the GDPR, 
consequently,  the EDPB and the EDPS are of  the opinion  that any reference to the costs should  be 
deleted from this clause. The same comment applies to the corresponding provision in Module Three. 

                                                             

 

 
29 As this is currently required by the EDPB in the context of BCRs for processors, see WP257 (endorsed by the 
EDPB), Section 2.3 “Any processor or  sub-processor processing the personal data on behalf of a  particular 
controller will accept, at the request of that controller, to submit their data processing facilities for audit of the 
processing activities relating to that controller which shall be carried out by the controller or an inspection body 
composed of independent members and in possession of the required professional qualifications, bound by a 
duty of confidentiality, selected by the data controller, where applicable, in agreement with the Supervisory 
Authority.”; 
https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/document.cfm?action=display&doc_id=49726 
https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/document.cfm?action=display&doc_id=49726. 

Adopted 

 

15 

 

66. 

67. 

68. 

69. 

70. 

4.3.3  Clause  1  -  Data  protection  safeguards  –  Module  Three  (Transfer  processor  to 

processor) 

Pursuant to Clause 1.1, the data importer is  obliged to process  the personal  data only based on the 
controller’s  instructions.  In  addition  to  that, Article  28(4)  GDPR requires  that, where  a  processor 
engages  another  (sub-)processor  for  carrying  out  specific  processing  activities  on  behalf  of  the 
controller, “the same data protection obligations as set out in the contract or other legal act between 
the controller and the processor” as referred to in Article 28(3) GDPR shall be imposed  on that other 
processor by way of a contract or other legal act under Union or Member State law. The EDPB and the 
EDPS are of the opinion that the requirement of Article 28(4) GDPR needs to be taken into account by 
the parties also in this scenario.  

4.3.3.1  Clause 1.1 - Instructions 

Module  Three deals  with processor  to processor  transfers. Accordingly, practitioners might initially 
assume  that the contract pursuant to  Article 46  GDPR may  exclusively  be  concluded  between the 
processor and its (sub-)processor  if only  Module Three is relied upon. However, Clause 1.1(a) refers 
to Annex I.A. and the list of “parties” which includes  the identity and contact details of the controller 
and its  signature. The EDPB and the EDPS are of  the opinion  that the Commission  needs  to clarify 
whether the controller  has to sign these clauses, or  whether the processor  and sub-processor  only 
need to mention the identity of the controller in the Annex. In the first case, it should  be clarified to 
what effect and which obligations of Module Three would apply to the controller.  

Furthermore, Clause 1.1 stipulates that the data exporter may give further instructions regarding the 
data processing “within the framework of the contract agreed with the data importer throughout the 
duration of the contract”. It is not clear whether the reference to the framework of the contract limits 
in any way the controller’s right to give further instructions regarding the data processing, all the more 
since Clause  7 of  the draft Article 28 SCCs  does  not contain such possible  limitation. Clause 7 states 
simply that “Subsequent instructions may also be given by the data controller throughout the duration 
of the processing of personal data”. 

4.3.3.2  Clause 1.5 - Storage limitation and erasure or return of data 

Clause  1.5  stipulates  that upon  termination of  the  provision  of  the  processing  services,  the  data 
importer shall delete all personal data processed on behalf of the controller (option 1) or return to the 
data exporter all personal data processed on its behalf and delete existing copies (option 2). The EDPB 
and the EDPS are of the opinion  that this wording conflicts with Article 28(3)(g) GDPR, which provides 
for  that deletion  or  returning takes place “at the choice of  the controller”. Accordingly, Clause  1.5 
should  provide  for  that deletion  or  returning of  personal  data  to  take  place  at the  choice  of  the 
controller. Furthermore, it should  be added to option 2 that the data importer should be required to 
certify to the data exporter that it has deleted existing copies. 

Apart from  that, Clause  1.5  sets  forth  that the  data importer’s obligation  to  return  or  delete the 
personal  data  is  notwithstanding  any  requirements  “under  local  law”  which  prohibits  return  or 
destruction. This  wording amounts to  contradicting Article 28(3)(g)  GDPR. Taking into account that 
the processor is  subject to third country laws, and therefore may be subject to a legal obligation to 
(further) storage of the data (e.g. for accounting purposes), the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the 
Commission  should  clarify in the Draft SCCs  that only  the requirements of local laws that respect the 
essence  of  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  do  not  exceed  what  is  necessary  and 
proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard one of the objectives listed in Article 23(1) GDPR 
should  be taken into account under this Clause.  As in Module Two, the EDPB and the EDPS consider 

Adopted 

 

16 

 

that specific legal requirements in terms of data retention periods under local laws, types of data, and 
retention periods should be explicitly specified under Annex I.B. 

Furthermore, the term “to the extent possible” should  be deleted. To avoid repetition, the EDPB and 
the EDPS invite the Commission  to refer to Section 4.3.2.1.  

4.3.3.3  Clause 1.5 - Security of processing and Clause 1.6 - Special categories of personal data 

71. 

For  the  avoidance  of  repetition,  the  EDPB and  the  EDPS  invite  the  Commission  to  refer  to  their 
comments made under Section 4.3.2.2. 

72. 

73. 

74. 

75. 

76. 

77. 

78. 

79. 

4.3.4  Clause 1 - Data protection safeguards – Module Four (Transfer processor to controller) 

The  EDPB and  the  EDPS  recognise  that the  scope  of  Module  Four  includes  only  transfers  from  a 
processor subject to GDPR to its own controller not subject to GDPR, and excludes transfers from such 
a processor  to any other controller, as is clarified in Article 1.1 and Recital 16 of the Draft Decision. 
Nevertheless, to avoid any misunderstanding about the scope of this module, the EDPB and the EDPS 
would  recommend  a  short  explanation  of  the  limited  scope  of  Module  Four  in  the  Draft  SCC 
themselves.  

The EDPB and the EDPS would  welcome any  additional explanation that the European Commission 
could add in the Draft Decision regarding Module Four, so as to better understand the rationale used 
to determine which commitments shall be taken by parties using Module Four. 

To provide  for all  the necessary provisions  of  Article 28  GDPR directly applicable  to the processor, 
Module Four should  be completed as follows: 

There should  be a commitment from the processor that persons authorised to process the personal 
data have committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obligation 
of confidentiality (Article 28(3)(b) GDPR).  

A clause on the personal data breach notifications obligations imposed on the processor  by virtue of 
Article 33(2) GDPR should also be added to this Module of the SCCs.  

Furthermore the Module should  be completed with a clause on sub-processing by the processor/data 
exporter as this is a direct obligation for the processor under Article 28(3) and (4) GDPR. 

Moreover, the parties must commit themselves to mutual assistance and support. In addition to the 
obligation already set out in Clause 5 of Module Four, this also concerns the obligation of the processor 
to inform  the  controller of  personal  data breaches (Article 33(2)  GDPR), which should  be  explicitly 
included in the agreement.   

4.3.5  Horizontal remarks - Clause 2  (Local laws affecting compliance with the Clauses) and 

Clause 3 (Obligations of the data importer in case of government access requests)  

4.3.5.1  Partial exemption of application to Module Four 

Concerning the fact that Clauses 2 and 3 will apply to Module Four “only if the EU processor combines 
the  personal  data  received from  the  third  country-controller with  personal  data  collected by  the 
processor in the EU”, the EDPB and the EDPS stress that Article 3(1) GDPR does not state that personal 
data  processed  by  the  processor  in  the  EU  shall  (also)  be  collected  in  the  EU  for  the  processor 
obligations to be applied to them. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS call on the Commission to clarify 
the reasons why this exemption has been inserted, and to further assess whether this exemption is 
justified.  

Adopted 

 

17 

80. 

81. 

82. 

83. 

84. 

 

Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS call on the Commission to clarify the notion of “combination” of 
the  personal  data  received from  the  third  country  controller  with  personal  data collected  by  the 
processor  in  the  EU, and  the  situations  where  this  combination  will  take place, as  such  notion  of 
combination of data is not envisaged in the GDPR. 

4.3.5.2  Situations covered by Clauses 2 and 3 

Concerning the situations covered in Clauses 2 and 3, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the scope of 
these provisions  should  be  clarified. Indeed, it is  not entirely clear if these  clauses cover  situations 
where, in the absence of legislation in the third country affecting compliance with the commitments 
of  the data importer, practices affecting such compliance would still have to be  taken into  account 
and assessed, or even if the clauses will cover practices diverging from what the legal framework of 
the third country provides. For  instance, concerning access to data by public  authorities in the third 
country, even  if  not  envisaged  by  the applicable  legal framework, such  access  could  take place  in 
practice, or the authorities might access to the data without complying with the legal framework. In 
order to expressly  take into account these situations, the titles of these clauses should be amended 
accordingly (in particular the title of  Clause 2, which only  refers to the laws, should  be  completed), 
and the wording of the clauses should be clarified to include more expressly these situations.  

In particular, Clause 2(a) does  not seem to impose  any specific  obligation in  the case where there is 
no law relating to public authorities’ access to personal data. In this respect, it is recalled that the EDPB 
Recommendations  on  supplementary  measures  provide  that, in  the  absence  of  publicly  available 
legislation, the data exporter should still look into other relevant and objective factors. The rationale 
behind this recommendation is that it cannot be reasonably inferred from the absence of law on public 
authorities’ access to personal data that no access takes place in practice.  

Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to complement Clauses 2 and 3 to provide safeguards 
also in situations where the third country does not have a legislation, but where such practices, which 
would then be contrary to EU data protection requirements, exist or where the practice will diverge 
from the provisions  of the legal framework. In particular, it should  thus be clarified in the  Draft SCCs 
that, in the absence of laws in the third country relating to public authorities’ access to personal data, 
the parties should  nevertheless, based  on  any available information, strive  to identify  any practice 
applicable to the data transferred preventing the data importer from fulfilling its obligations. 

4.3.5.3  Scope of Clauses 2 And 3 

Also concerning the scope of the clauses, the EDPB and the EDPS note that some elements such as the 
reference to  the  “absence of  requests for  disclosure  from  public  authorities received by  the data 
importer” or to “relevant practical experience” in this regard in Clause 2(b), as well as the use of the 
present tense in  Clause 2(e)  concerning the moment  in which the data importer “is  or has become 
subject  to  laws  not  in  line  with the  requirements under  paragraph  a)”  of  Clause  2,  are  source  of 
ambiguity. Indeed, these elements may give the impression  that even when the prior assessment  of 
the legal framework of the third country of the importer led to the conclusion  that the legislation of 
the third country is not compliant with the EU requirements in terms of level of protection afforded 
to personal data and that no effective supplementary measure(s) could be put in place, transfers could 
still take place. The EDPB and the EDPS therefore recommend to clarify that these clauses will apply 
only  to situations where, at the time of the conclusion  of  the contract, either the relevant law(s) of 
the third country was (were) assessed to be providing an essentially equivalent level of protection to 
that guaranteed within the EU, or where effective supplementary measures to remedy the potential 
deficiencies  identified in such  legislation and/or practices and to ensure the effective application of 
the safeguards contained in the Draft SCCs have been put in place so as to allow the data importer to 
comply with its obligations, or where the third country does not have any law in the field relevant to 
the transferred data.  

Adopted 

 

18 

 

85. 

In other words, the mechanisms foreseen in these clauses will be triggered only in cases where, either:  

  The third country will  have no  legislation, but a practice incompliant with the EU requirements 

will be revealed; 

  A change of  law in  the third country will  occur, and as a consequence of  this change, the legal 
framework of the third  country of  the importer will not be  providing  an essentially equivalent 
level  of data protection anymore, which  will thus  require a suspension  of  the transfers taking 
place on the basis of the SCCs; or 

  The  implementation  of  the  law  will  diverge  in  practice  and  no  longer  provide  an  essentially 

equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within the EU. 

4.3.6  Clause 2 – Local laws affecting compliance with the Clauses 

4.3.6.1  Objective assessment of the legislation of the third country  

86. 

The EDPB and the EDPS stress that the assessment of whether there is anything in the law or practice 
of  the third  country of  destination, which  prevents  the data importer from fulfilling  its  obligations 
under  the Draft SCCs  in  the  context of  the specific  transfer, should  be based  on  objective  factors, 
regardless  of  the  likelihood  of  access  to  the  personal  data.  As  underlined 
in  the  EDPB 
Recommendations on supplementary measures (in particular paragraphs 33 and 4230, this assessment 
depends on the circumstances of the transfer and in particular on the following objective factors: 

  Purposes  for  which  the data are transferred and processed  (e.g. marketing, HR, storage, IT 

support, clinical trials); 

  Types of entities involved in the processing (public/private; controller/processor); 

  Sector in which the transfer occurs (e.g. adtech, telecommunication, financial, etc.); 

  Categories of personal data transferred (e.g. personal data relating to children may fall within 

the scope of specific legislation in the third country); 

  Whether the data will be stored in the third country or whether there is only remote access 

to data stored within the EU/EEA; 

  Format of the data to be transferred (i.e. in plain text/ pseudonymised  or encrypted); 

  Possibility  that the data may be subject to onward transfers from the third country to another 

third country. 

87. 

In this respect, the EDPB and the EDPS also recall that in the Schrems II ruling, the CJEU did not refer 
to any subjective factor such as the likelihood of access, for instance. The mere fact that the data are 
comprised  within  the  scope  of  a  third  country  legislation  that  allows  access  to  data  by  public 
authorities without specific essential guarantees (as recalled in the EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 
on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures 31 )  would  amount,  per  se,  to 
considering  that  such  access  will  possibly  take  place,  without  the  need  to  rely  on  any  practical 

                                                             

 

30 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/consultation/edpb_recommendations_202001_supplementarymea
surestransferstools_en.pdf.  
31 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_recommendations_202002_europeanessentialguar
anteessurveillance_en.pdf.  

Adopted 

 

19 

 

experience in this regard or absence of requests for disclosure from public authorities received by the 
data importer. The current drafting of Clause 2(b)(i) can therefore be misunderstood  as it might be 
read as permitting data to be exported if the data importer has not yet received any order to disclose 
personal data, even if it is subject to local laws permitting such orders. It could also be understood to 
allow  continuing  the transfer where the  data importer is  simply  not  permitted to  inform  the data 
exporter in this respect due to a gag order. Furthermore, assessing these kinds of subjective  factors 
(likelihood  of access) in practice would prove to be very difficult and hardly verifiable.  

88. 

Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend:  

  Deleting the reference to “the content and duration of the contract”; “the scale and regularity 
of  transfers”;  “the number  of  actors  involved  and  the  transmission  channels  used”;  “any 
relevant practical experience with prior instances, or the absence of requests for disclosur e 
from public authorities received by the data importer”;  

  Ensuring  full  consistency  between  Clause  2(b)(i)  and  of  the  EDPB  Recommendations  on 

supplementary measures; 

  Amending Clause 2(b)(ii) accordingly.   

4.3.6.2  New annex to be added to the Draft SCCs 

89. 

90. 

91. 

In order to avoid that the parties merely agree to document the above-mentioned assessment without 
doing so in practice, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to add an annex to the Draft SCCs to require 
the parties to document, prior to the signature of the contract, this assessment led under Clause 2 
(i.e., the assessment of the third country’s legislation and practices in the light of the circumstances 
of the transfer). This would  help to achieve that the Draft SCCs  will be correctly used, as an explicit 
annex would point the data importers and data exporters to the necessity of this assessment.  

4.3.6.3  Consultation of the SA on supplementary measures  

Under Clause 2(f), the Draft SCCs provide for the consultation of the competent supervisory authority 
(“SA”). As underlined in the EDPB Recommendations on supplementary measures, “when you intend 
to put in place supplementary measures in  addition to SCCs,  there is no  need for you  to request an 
authorisation from the competent SA to add these kind of clauses or additional safeguards as long as 
the  identified  supplementary  measures  do  not  contradict, directly or  indirectly,  the  SCCs  and  are 
sufficient to ensure that the level of protection guaranteed by the GDPR is not undermined.”32  

Indeed, it is the responsibility of the data exporter, with the assistance of the data importer, to identify 
those measures. This is in line with the principle of accountability of Article 5(2) GDPR, which requires 
controllers to be  responsible  for, and be able to demonstrate compliance  with the GDPR  principles 
relating to processing of personal data. This was emphasized by the CJEU in its Schrems II ruling 33, and 
recalled in the EDPB Recommendations on supplementary measures34. 

                                                             

 

32 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/consultation/edpb_recommendations_202001_supplementarymea
surestransferstools_en.pdf; para 56 
33 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 16 July 2020; Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Limited and Maximillian Schrems; Case C-311/18; para 134. 
34 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/consultation/edpb_recommendations_202001_supplementarymea
surestransferstools_en.pdf; para 5. 

Adopted 

 

20 

 

92. 

Also, the EDPB and the EDPS underline  that there is no express legal basis in the GDPR according to 
which the SAs would have to provide for such kind of consultation.  

93. 

94. 

95. 

96. 

97. 

98. 

4.3.6.4  Notification of  SAs  where the data exporters  intend to  continue  with the transfers, even 

though no supplementary measures could be found 

The EDPB and the EDPS recall that in previous SCCs, the data exporter had to “forward” the notification 
made  by  the  data importer  relating to  the  impossibility  to  respect  the  SCCs  to  the  SA,  where  it 
”decides, notwithstanding  that notification, to  continue the transfer or to lift  the suspension”.  This 
commitment, scrutinized by  the CJEU  in the Schrems  II ruling, paragraph 145, should  be retained in 
the Draft SCCs. 

In line  with  the provisions  contained in  the 2010 SCCs35,  as scrutinized  by  the CJEU,  a notification 
should  be  foreseen  only  if  the  data exporter  intends  to  continue  the  transfer  in  the  absence  of 
effective supplementary measures. This  case is not reflected in the Draft SCCs yet, while it is indeed 
the situation where a SA could have a role to play, and could intervene with its powers to suspend  or 
prohibit data transfers in those cases where it finds  that an essentially equivalent level of protection 
cannot be ensured in accordance with the Schrems II ruling36. 

In addition, the drafting of  Clause 2(f) should  make clear that such  notification will not, in any way, 
constitute  an  authorisation  to  continue  the  transfer  in  the  absence  of  suitable  supplementary 
measures on the basis of the Draft SCCs. The EDPB and the EDPS thus call on the Commission to clarify 
this point.  

4.3.7  Clause 3 – Obligations of the data importer in case of government access requests 

The  EDPB and  the  EDPS  recommend  clarifying  that  access  requests  from  courts  and  other  public 
authorities  of  the third  country  fall  within  the  scope  of  this  provision.  This  could  for  instance  be 
achieved with a modification of the title of this clause. 

4.3.7.1  Clause 3.1 – Notification 

Under Clause  3.1, the EDPB and the EDPS underline  that it should  be clarified  that the notification 
foreseen by the data importer would take place before having replied to the access request by third 
country’s public authorities, so as to allow the data exporter to take any appropriate further steps, if 
needed.  

4.3.7.2  Clause 3.2 – Review of legality and data minimisation 

The EDPB and the EDPS understand that the scope of  Clause 3.2 is limited to situations where access 
requests received by the data importer will not be compliant with the legislation of the third country, 
including  its  obligations  resulting  from  international  law  and  its  rules  governing  conflicts  of  laws 
situations. The EDPB and the EDPS consequently recommend clarifying this clause in order to ensure 
that data exporters do not misunderstand it. This clause is only  meant to ensure that the legislation 
of the third country already complying with EU law requirements will be applied correctly in that third 
                                                             

 

35 2010/87/: Commission Decision  of 5 February 2010 on standard  contractual clauses  for  the transfer of 
personal data to processors established in third countries under Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council; OJ L 39, 12.2.2010, p. 5–18; Annex - Clause 4(g). 
36 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 16 July 2020; Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Limited and Maximillian Schrems; Case C-311/18; para 113 and 121. 

Adopted 

 

21 

 

country.  Therefore,  this  clause  will  not,  per  se,  result  in  challenging  the  legality  of  requests  of 
disclosure  against  EU  data  protection  requirements,  unless  the  legislation  of  the  third  country 
expressly provides for the possibility  to invoke the legislation of another country.   

4.3.8  Clause 5 - Data subject rights - Module One (Transfer controller to controller) 

  Clause 5(a) 

99. 

According  to  this  subparagraph, the  data importer  is  responsible  for  dealing  with  data  subjects’ 
requests to exercise their rights. Possible  difficulties  may arise in practice, due to the data importer 
being outside  the EU. For that reason, the EDPB and the EDPS share the view that this clause should 
be more closely aligned with the current requirements under the 2004 SCCs, i.e., the data exporter is 
in charge of responding to data subjects’ enquiries, unless the parties agreed otherwise37. Besides, the 
parties should commit to assist and cooperate with each other when handling data subjects’ requests. 

100. 

Additionally,  the  EDPB and  the  EDPS  are of  the  opinion  that the  obligation  imposed  on  the  data 
importer to provide  information  to data subjects  upon  request should  be clearly introduced  in the 
Draft SCCs, and fully aligned with the requirements under Article 12(1) and Article 15 GDPR.  

  Clause 5(b) 

101. 

In the opinion  of the EDPB and the EDPS, data subjects should  have the right to access, upon request, 
to more information than those currently listed under Clause 5(b)(i), and more precisely to: 

  More precise information in  relation to onward transfers, including  for sub-processors,  i.e., 
the full name and contact details of all recipients of the data relating to them38. This could be 
achieved by requiring the parties to provide such  information in Annex III of the  Draft SCCs, 
or by requiring to provide them to data subjects upon request; 

  In accordance with Article 15(1)(d)  GDPR, precise information  on  the envisaged  period  for 
which the personal data will be stored, where possible, or if not, the criteria used to determine 
that period.  This could  be  achieved by  requiring the parties to provide  such  information  in 
Annex I of  the Draft SCCs.  Providing such information  in Annex I might also  make it clear to 
the parties that they need to actually define and implement retention periods; and 

  In  accordance with  Article  15(1)(g)  GDPR, any  available  information  as  to  the  source  of 

collection, where the personal data are not collected directly from data subjects.  

102.  Module One should  include  the data importer’s obligation to inform data subjects on their rights to 
request rectification or erasure of their personal data, as well as their rights to request restriction of 
or to object to the processing of their personal  data, which would bring this clause in line with Article 
15(1)(e)  GDPR. Such  information  would  come  in  addition  to  information  on  the  right  to  lodge  a 
complaint with the competent SA, as currently included under Clause 5(b)(i). More generally, the EDPB 
and  the EDPS  call on  the  Commission  to insert  the obligation  for  the  data importer  to allow  data 
subjects to exercise their right to request the restriction of the processing of their data.   

                                                             

 

37 See clause 1(d) and Clause II(e) in 2004 SCCs. 
38 See Judgment of the Court (Third Chamber) of 7 May 2009; CJEU College van burgemeester en wethouders 
van Rotterdam v M.E.E. Rijkeboer C-553/07; para 49 and 54. 

Adopted 

 

22 

 

103. 

As to Clause 5(b)(iii)  concerning erasure of data subjects’ personal data, the EDPB and the EDPS are of 
the opinion that such commitment should  completely reflect the requirements set out in Article 17(1) 
GDPR.  

  Clause 5(c) 

104. 

The EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion  that it is  not justified  to limit the right to object to direct 
marketing cases and that the scope of the right to object should be extended, especially in cases where 
the right to object is enforceable against the data exporter in the first place.  

  Clause 5(d) 

105. 

The EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion  that the wording of Clause 5(d) should  be revised so as to 
mirror Article 22 GDPR’s prohibition of automated decision-making as a principle, and should  set out 
the conditions  allowing derogations to such prohibition. Clause 5(d)  should  also clarify that the data 
importer’s obligations to implement suitable safeguards and provide information about the envisaged 
automated decision to data subjects are cumulative.  

106. 

In addition, in accordance with Article 22 and  Article 15(1)(h)  GDPR, Clause 5(d) should  require that 
information  provided  to data subjects  include  the significance  and the envisaged consequences  for 
data subjects.  

  Clause 5(f)  

107.  Whilst the EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge that there may be circumstances justifying that the data 
importer may refuse a data subject’s request, it should be made clear in the Draft SCCs  that only the 
requirements of local laws that respect the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms and do 
not  exceed  what is  necessary  and  proportionate  in  a  democratic society  to  safeguard  one  of  the 
objectives listed in Article 23(1) GDPR should  be taken into account under this Clause.  

  Clause 5(g) 

108. 

In order for data subjects to be fully able to exercise their rights, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that 
the obligation to inform data subjects that the data importer intends to reject their requests should 
be  aligned with Article 12(4)  GDPR, hence be  provided  without  delay  and at the latest within  one 
month of receipt of the request.  

4.3.9  Clause 5  - Data  subject rights -  Modules Two  (Transfer controller to processor) and 

Three (Transfer processor to processor) 

109. 

Clause  5 in  Module  Two and  Clause 5  in  Module Three contain  the same requirements, hence are 
addressed together in this Joint Opinion.  

110. 

The EDPB and the EDPS share the opinion  that Clause 5(a) should: 

  Further  specify  that the  responses  to  data  subjects  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the 
controller’s instructions (e.g. on content of the response) as set out in annex to the Draft SCCs.  

  Further specify that the scope of the data importer’s obligation relating to the exercise of data 
subjects’ rights on behalf of the controller should  be described  and clearly set out in annex to 
the Draft SCCs.  

Adopted 

 

23 

 

4.3.10  Clause 5 - Data subject rights - Module Four (Transfer processor to controller)  

111. 

The EDPB and the EDPS would  welcome clarification from  the European Commission  regarding the 
possible practical consequences entailed by the commitment made by the parties to assist each other 
in handling data subjects’ requests made on the basis of the data importer’s applicable law.   

112. 

The EDPB and the EDPS would welcome further clarity on the situations that the commitment made 
by the parties to assist each other in handling data subjects’ aim at covering.  

113.  Moreover, it is unclear what is meant in Clause 5, where reference is made to the assistance “for data 
processing by the data exporter in the EU, under the GDPR”. If the intention is, for instance, to cover 
assistance in relation to security obligations, it should be clarified by the Commission  in the Draft SCCs.  

4.3.11  Clause 6 - Redress  

114. 

115. 

116. 

117. 

The EDPB and the EDPS would  welcome clarification in the Draft SCCs  as to whether the option  to 
offer data subjects  the possibility  to seek redress before an independent dispute  resolution body, at 
no  cost, has  to be provided  in all sets  of clauses. While  it would  be clear that this  option  may help 
ensure effective enforcement in case of controller to controller transfer, the EDPB and the EDPS would 
welcome further clarification as to how this mechanism will apply in Modules  Two, Three, and Four. 
For  instance, it  should  be  clarified to  which  extent this  mechanism  would  apply  in  relation  to the 
specific and direct obligations of the processor and of the controller in Module Four.   

As for the clauses on redress envisaged in Modules  One, Two, and Three (Clause 6(b)), the EDPB and 
the EDPS are of the opinion that it should be made clearer that the data importer shall accept the right 
of  the  data subject  (who  invokes  his  or  her  rights as  a third  party beneficiary)  to  lodge  directly a 
complaint  with an  EEA SA  and/or  bring a  claim before  an  EEA court without  the  need  to seek  an 
amicable resolution of the dispute in advance. In fact, in order to ensure the same level of protection 
envisaged  by  Articles 77  and 79  GDPR, such  type  of  mechanisms  (e.g. internal  complaint-handling 
mechanisms put in place by the data importer) should  be encouraged so as to facilitate the exercise 
of the third party beneficiary rights, but they should  not be considered as a prerequisite for lodging a 
complaint with the SA or with a court. 

Furthermore, Article 77(1) GDPR provides  that data subjects shall be able to choose  to lodge a claim 
before the SA of their habitual residence, place of  work, or place of the alleged infringement. From 
this  perspective,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  it  to  be  important  to  amend  Clause  6(b)(i) 
accordingly – as the Draft SCCs seem to refer only to the SA with responsibility  for ensuring compliance 
by the data exporter with the GDPR as regards the data transfer. 

The EDPB and the EDPS call for clarifications in relation to the absence of a redress clause in Module 
Four. Taking into consideration the commitments currently contained in Clause 5 of Module Four in 
relation to ‘data processing by the data exporter in the EU, under the GDPR’, the EDPB and  the EDPS 
are wondering how the data subject’s right to redress will be recognised in such cases.  

4.3.12  Clause 7 - Liability - Modules One (Transfer controller to controller) and Four (Transfer 

processor to controller) 

118. 

In Clause 7, Modules  One and Four, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the joint and several liability 
towards the data subject  would  only  be  triggered in  case there is  a shared responsibility.  In other 
words, the liability  regime envisaged in  the  Draft SCCs  does  not provide  for a full  joint  and several 
liability where each party would be responsible  for the damage solely caused by the other party.  

119. 

In this  context, the EDPB and  the EDPS would  like to  recall that the Draft SCCs  should  incorporate 
effective  mechanisms  that  make  it  possible,  in  practice, to  ensure  compliance  with  the  level  of 

Adopted 

 

24 

 

protection required by  EU law39. However, bringing an action against a non-EU company may prove 
to  be  difficult  for  the  data  subject  as  regards enforcement  of  the  judgment  against that  non-EU 
company. The existing sets of SCCs are more protective than what is proposed in the Draft SCCs, and 
the EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that the protection of data subjects should be reinforced in 
this regard. 

120. 

Against this background, the EDPB and the EDPS call for an amendment of Clause 7 in  line with the 
considerations made above. 

121. 

122. 

123. 

4.3.13  Clause  7  -  Liability  -  Modules  Two  (Transfer  controller  to  processor)  and  Three 

(Transfer processor to processor) 

In Modules Two and Three, Clause 7(c) and 7(d), it is envisaged that the data subject shall be entitled 
to receive compensation, for any material or non-material damages the data importer caused, against 
the data importer (c) or against the data exporter (d).  

For  the avoidance  of  doubt,  it should  be  clarified  in  the Draft SCCs  by  the  Commission  that these 
possibilities  are  cumulative  and  the  data subject  has  a  choice  to  receive  compensation,  for  any 
material or non-material damages the data importer caused, either against the data importer or the 
data exporter. In other words, the possibility  to seek the liability of the data exporter for any material 
or non-material damages caused by the data importer should not be conditioned by an action against 
the data importer.   

4.3.14  Clause 9 - Supervision  

Clause  9  requires  to  specify  the  SA  which  is  competent  for  the  data exporter for  the  purpose  of 
compliance  with  the  Draft  SCCs,  but  does  not  envisage  the  case  where  there  may  be  several 
competent SAs  if there are several data exporters as parties to the  Draft SCCs (which is a possibility 
offered by the Draft SCCs). The EDPB and the EDPS would suggest clarifying this aspect by referring to 
the possibility that more than one EEA SA could be competent if different data exporters are involved 
and  that, in  this  specific  case, each  SA  with  the  responsibility  to  ensure  compliance  by  the  data 
exporter will be competent for the specific transfer carried out on its territory. For the sake of clarity 
and readability, the parties should be requested to designate the competent SAs in the annexes.  

4.4  Section III - Final provisions 

4.4.1  Clause 1 - Non-compliance with the Clauses and termination 

124. 

Clause  1(d)  provides  for  an exception  to  the obligation  to  return or  destroy  the  data prior  to the 
termination of the contract when the local law applicable to the data importer prohibits this return or 
destruction. The EDPB and the EDPS call  the Commission  to  recall that the obligations  of  the data 
importer under Clause 5 Section II would also apply in the case referred to in Clause 1(d) Section III. 
The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the Commission should  clarify in the Draft SCCs  that only the 
requirements of local laws that respect the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms and do 
not  exceed  what is  necessary  and  proportionate  in  a  democratic society  to  safeguard  one  of  the 
objectives listed in Article 23(1) GDPR should  be taken into account under this clause. 

                                                             

 

39 For instance, Article 47(2)(f) GDPR requires that BCRs shall specify, amongst others, “the acceptance by the 
controller or processor established on the territory of a Member State of liability for any breaches of the binding 
corporate rules by any member concerned not established in the Union”. 

Adopted 

 

25 

 

125. 

126. 

127. 

128. 

In addition,  the  EDPB and  the  EDPS note  that Clause  1(d)  provides  that the data  importer  should 
warrant that it will ensure, “to the extent possible” the level of protection required by these clauses.  

In this  respect, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that the level of protection required by the Draft SCCs 
should  always be ensured. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS call on the Commission  to remove the 
reference to “to the extent possible”.   

4.5  Annexes 

The EDPB and the EDPS note that the Draft SCCs  are designed to be possibly  used – as a Multi Party 
Agreement - by more than one party as data exporters and/or as data importers. In order to avoid the 
risk of blurring roles and responsibilities,  it is important to provide the parties, in the Draft SCCs, with 
clear  indications  as  to  how  the  Annex  should  to  be  filled  out  appropriately.  This  is  all  the  more 
necessary because  of the modular  approach that allows  the clauses  to be incorporated within  one 
Multi Party Agreement covering up to four scenarios (controller-to-controller, controller-to-processor, 
processor-to-processor,  and  processor-to-controller  transfers),  and  possibly  a  large  number  of 
transfers, each of  them possibly  occurring between different data exporters and/or  data importers. 
The EDPB and the EDPS are therefore of the opinion  that it is of utmost importance that the contract 
that will be signed in practice, including its Annexes,  will, with absolute clarity, delimit the roles and 
responsibilities  of  each  of  the  parties  (data  exporter-controller,  data  exporter-processor,  data 
importer-controller, data importer-processor) in  each relationship, and with regard to each transfer 
or set of transfers covered. 

For these reasons, the Annex to the contract should be precise enough so it is possible  at any point in 
time to determine who takes which role as regards a specific  transfer or set of transfers of personal 
data. The EDPB and the EDPS therefore suggest to clarify that each transfer or set of transfers, i. e. 
each transfer or set of transfers carried out for one or several certain and defined purposes, should 
be separately described  on the basis  of its/their purpose(s),  the types of  personal data transferred, 
the category or categories of data subjects, the type(s) of processing, and the parties to the transfer 
(data importer(s) and data exporter(s)), as well as the role of the respective parties (controller(s) or 
processor(s)).  Consequently,  as  a  rule, a  distinct  Annex  –  which  should  include  Parts  I to  VI -  per 
transfer or set of transfers, will always be required. Such distinct Annex required for each transfer or 
set of transfers should be signed only by those data exporters and data importers which carry out the 
respective transfer. At the same time, each data exporter and  data importer signing  the respective 
Annex should  specify, when signing the Annex relating to the respective transfer or the respective set 
of transfers, its role as regards this  transfer or set of transfers (controller or  processor), in order to 
avoid any ambiguities.  

129. 

As a result, in case of a Multi Party Agreement addressing several transfers and/or parties, it should 
always  be clear which  Annex  (comprising  Parts I to  VI) applies  to  which  specific  transfer or  set  of 
transfer, who the data exporters and data importers involved  in that transfer or set of transfers are, 
and which role (controller or processor)  the respective data exporter or data importer takes in that 
transfer or set of transfers. To this aim, the EDPB and the EDPS suggest to include some explanatory 
wording, in the “Annex” part of the Draft SCCs, aimed at guiding the parties on the appropriate use 
and  signing  of  the  Annex, in  particular in  the  case  of  the  Draft SCCs  being  used  as  a  Multi  Party 
Agreement. The EDPB and the EDPS have provided some corresponding wording suggestions in the 
technical annex of this Joint Opinion.  

130. 

Thus, an Annex containing only  general information that applies  to a variety of transfers should not 
be considered  complete. In order to avoid confusion,  the Annex should be signed only  by the parties 
that effectively carry out the specific processing, including  those  parties acceding to the clauses  on 
the basis of Section I Clause 6. 

Adopted 

 

26 

 

131. 

132. 

Another  problem  encountered  in  practice, is  that  SCCs  Annexes  on  technical  and  organisational 
measures are often filled out in a very generic way because they are meant to be made fit for a whole 
variety of  different transfers and processing operations, while lacking precise indication as to which 
technical and organisational measures apply to which of the transfers covered by the SCCs. Therefore, 
the  EDPB and  the  EDPS  suggest  to  expressly  highlight  in  the  Draft SCC  (Part III of  the  Annex  as 
suggested by the EDPB and the EDPS) that only those specific technical and organisational measures 
that will be applied to the respective transfer/set of transfers should  be enumerated, while technical 
and organisational measures that will only  apply to other transfers / categories of transfers covered 
by  the same Multi  Party Agreement should  only  be  filled  out  in  those Annex  that relates to  those 
respective transfers for their part.  

As regards controller-processor  relationships, the EDPB and the EDPS note that, in practice, there is 
sometimes confusion  about the requirements relating to sub-processors. The requirements set out in 
the Draft SCCs  to enlist each and every sub-processor  should  be specifically recalled and reflected in 
Part V of  the Annex. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS would suggest to indicate (as Part V of the 
Annex  as  suggested)  the  list  of  intended  sub-processors  (including,  per  each,  their  location,  the 
processing  operation(s),  and  type  of  safeguards  they  have  implemented)  in  order  to  enable  the 
controller to authorise the use  of the intended sub-processors  as required by Article 28(2) GDPR. It 
would be, moreover, also  useful to insert the sentence that the controller has authorised the use of 
the sub-processors  mentioned in that list.  

 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Supervisor 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The European Data Protection Supervisor 

The Chair 

 

 

(Wojciech Wiewiorowski) 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

 

27 

