THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

November 4, 2019

 

 

  The results of the municipal data protection survey by the LfDI are available

Municipalities feel heavily burdened by the General Data Protection Regulation

 

In the summer of this year by the State Commissioner for Data Protection and the

Freedom of Information (LfDI) for all 1101 Baden-Württemberg municipalities

survey conducted on the status of the implementation of the new data protection law

evaluated. Around 87% of the municipalities took part in the survey – an excellent

ing response, which show that the results obtained are representative.

 

“The impression I gained through our diverse work with the municipalities is

confirmed: Overall, the municipalities in Baden-Württemberg feel

requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. Most common reason-

for is the lack of human and time resources to meet the new challenges

to be able to meet data protection requirements," says Stefan Brink, the state data

data protection officer.

 

“The municipalities in Baden-Württemberg are mastering the challenges posed by the

General Data Protection Regulation in many places with a high level of commitment and some good ones

results. However, there is often – especially in smaller communities – the

impression that the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation are met with the order

appointment of an (external) data protection officer has already been done,” says Brink

Celebration. “Of course that is not the case. Especially in the area of data security

we often had to determine insufficient conditions -- there must be urgently

be improved.”

 

The municipalities have a very high level of advice and support towards the LfDI

need for support, for example in the form of further training measures

ment, templates or handouts. But also support from others

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

Positions are demanded, such as support from the relevant ministries for state

uniform procedure. The feedback from the municipalities also shows that

too few approaches to intermunicipal cooperation in the field of data

protection that would help smaller communities in particular. Here they could

districts have a coordination and support function in the area of data protection

adopt for small communities.

 

“I heard the call for more practice-oriented support. Therefore published

Today I am releasing a new brochure on data protection in municipalities,” says Brink

further. "Should the training and further education center planned for 2020 at the

LfDI can be set up, this is also needs-based as a focus

Offer events and seminars for the municipal sector”.

 

The detailed evaluation of the survey can be found there:

https://badenden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/gemeinden-umfrage/

 

The brochure "Data protection for municipalities" is also available online:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/wp-

content/uploads/2019/11/Brochure-communities-November-2019.pdf. our inter

web appearance can also be a summary presentation of the results of the

municipal survey that the LfDI presented to the press today.

den: https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/wp-

content/uploads/2019/11/Presentation-Results-Municipal Survey.pdf.

 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716. width

You can find information on data protection on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.
 

 

