1/15

 File No.: EXP202203322

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 9, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against COMMUNITY
OWNER R.R.R. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

File No.: EXP202203322

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On 03/16/2022, a document submitted to this Agency was entered
by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), through which the claim is made
against COMMUNITY OWNER R.R.R. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system located in
*** ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the provisions of
the personal data protection regulations.

The reasons for the claim are the following:

“[…]

With an approximate date in the first or second quarter of the year 2021, without prejudice to
that could have occurred before, video surveillance cameras were installed
integrated into a live vision system at different points of the aforementioned farm,
(…). The images captured by these devices are viewed live by the
security guard on duty hired by the accused.

I have had access to the last two minutes of the Meeting of Owners held on 23
May 2019 and May 31, 2018 (...), the
controversial installation of the video surveillance system, and consequently does not have
with the approval of the Board.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/15

[…]

In the cases related to the aforementioned facilities (...), neither their existence nor
any other details related to the treatment of the data obtained are
informed by the presence of an informative poster; and in the rest of the cases, being
present, it is only visible from an area already covered by the visibility range of the
devices.

[…]”

Attach the following documentation:

- Copy of two Minutes of the Ordinary General Meeting, dated 05/31/2018 and

05/23/2019.

- Photographic report of the location of the video surveillance cameras and

informative posters of video-monitored area.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), on 03/17/2022 the claim was transferred to the party
claimed, so that it proceeds to its analysis and informs this Agency within the term
of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of availability, understood as rejected
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP dated 03/28/2022, as stated
in the certificate in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming that
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, under
information, a copy was sent by postal mail, which was duly notified in
date 04/06/2022. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to relate
electronically with the Administration, and they were informed of the means of access to
said notifications, reiterating that, henceforth, he would be notified exclusively
by electronic means.

On 05/05/2022, this Agency received a written response indicating, in
synthesis, that the building has 57 video surveillance cameras, being deactivated
from 04/20/2022 the gym. In addition, it provides, among others, the following
documentation:

-

Photographs of the monitor in which it is observed what each of the
cameras, as well as the location of these and the informative posters of
video surveillance area installed in the garage, garbage rooms and entrance
main access to the community.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/15

- Copy of the certificate issued by the secretary of the Community of Owners
on 05/03/2022 with respect to the fact that at the Ordinary General Meeting of 04/24/2017
agrees "the extension of the installation of surveillance cameras to garages and
others. Different offers will be evaluated undertaking the installation of the cameras
by an approved company and its statement to the Data Protection Agency
Data. (…)”.

- Copy of the following contracts: person in charge of treatment and services of
security with security company RESET SECURITY AND SURVEILLANCE,
S.L. dated 10/11 and 17/2019, respectively; with the property manager
of the community in which it is empowered to manage the rights of the
citizens.

- Copy of the "Informative clause for the treatment of personal data"
sent to all residents of the community with the notice of treatment of
data and the address where they can exercise the rights of the interested parties;
as well as the security document, the security breach protocol and
of action before the possible exercise of rights of the interested party.

THIRD: On 05/06/2022, this Agency requests the claimed party
additional documentation. Specifically, that it provides “clear and
of each perimeter camera or that captures an area outside the enclosure
of the community" and "of the capture made by the camera located on the track of
paddle tennis, as well as the approval of the same in the Owners' meeting on installation
cameras in sports areas.

On 05/13/2022, a letter was received from the claimed party in which he provided the images
requested, dated 05/13/2022, and where it indicates that the camera located on the runway
paddle tennis "is set up expressly to monitor the entire perimeter of that area of the
urbanization to cover, although circumstantially it captures images of the paddle tennis court
that falls to the left of the camera and the existing path that falls to the right of the
herself (…). However, an image blinding by means of a privacy mask is attached
the part of the adjacent public road as well as the area of the paddle tennis court that
falls within the amplitude range of the target of the same”.

FOURTH: On 05/18/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

 Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/15

initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

 The image is a personal data

The physical image of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is data
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.

The images generated by a system of cameras or camcorders are data of
personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the protection regulations
of data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the denounced video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

II

 alleged infringement

Article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow the use of
processing of personal data.

Regarding treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

Article 12.1 of the GDPR indicates that whoever carries out data processing
personal, such as the capture of images through a system of
video surveillance, must provide the interested parties with the information indicated in the
Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR.

In order that the duty of information provided for in article 12 of the GDPR is
complies in a concise and understandable manner for the affected party, the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD foresees in relation to video surveillance a system of "information by
layers".

In this sense, the first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the
treatment (video surveillance), the identity of the person responsible, the possibility of exercising the
rights provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more
information on the processing of personal data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/15

Second layer information should be easily available in one place
accessible to the affected person, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc…,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
other elements of article 13 of the GDPR.

It is not necessary to specify the precise location of the video surveillance equipment.

This duty of information will be understood fulfilled by placing a
Information device in a sufficiently visible place, and at least, at the entrances
to monitored areas, whether interior or exterior. In case the space
video surveillance has several accesses must have said hallmark of
video surveillance area in each of them.

This information must be provided in advance -recital 39 of the GDPR-. He
The aim is to make the context of surveillance clear.

The processing of personal data is subject to the rest of the principles of the
treatment contained in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight the principle of
minimization of data contained in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR which provides that
personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to
for the purposes for which they are processed”.

This means that in a specific treatment only the data can be processed
timely personal, that come to the case and that are strictly necessary
to fulfill the purpose for which they are processed. Treatment must be adjusted and
proportional to the purpose to which it is directed. The relevance in the treatment of
data must occur both at the time of data collection and at the time of
subsequent treatment carried out on them.

In accordance with the above, the processing of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their deletion.

The application of the principle of data minimization in the field of video surveillance
means that images of the public thoroughfare cannot be captured, since the
treatment of images in public places, unless authorized
government, can only be carried out by the Security Forces and Corps.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
cameras installed on facades or inside, may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public thoroughfare.

That is, cameras and camcorders installed for security purposes may not be
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for said purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in such a case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and, in particular, not being able to affect public spaces

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/15

surroundings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those that access the space
guarded.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

Nor can images be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties
without the consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who
find.

Likewise, it is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
such as changing rooms, lockers or rest areas for workers.
 

 Video surveillance obligations

IV.

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
video surveillance, to comply with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other means, recital 39 of the GDPR.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a subsequent purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 must be fulfilled
and 13 of the GDPR, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

4.- The treatment of images through the installation of camera systems or
video cameras must be lawful and comply with the principle of proportionality and the principle of
minimization of data, in the terms already indicated.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, property or facilities.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/15

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent authority within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.
6.- The controller must keep a record of processing activities
carried out under his responsibility in which the information to which he makes
reference article 30.1 of the GDPR.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt security measures.
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood to be the destruction, loss or accidental alteration or
unlawful transfer of personal data, stored or otherwise processed, or the
communication or unauthorized access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a qualified private security company
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:







the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"),
the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available at the
section "Guides and tools").

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

 Possible administrative offense

V

The claim is based on the alleged illegality of the installation by the defendant of
several video surveillance cameras at different points of the farm, located in
***ADDRESS 1; without the proper authorization of the Board of Owners.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/15

In addition, it warns that the reviewed property does not have the mandatory sign
informative in all video-surveilled areas and, in those where it is present,
It is not in a sufficiently visible place.

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided a photographic report in
which shows the existence of video surveillance cameras installed in the rooms
of garbage from the different portals, in the vicinity of a portal and inside
from the gym and the paddle tennis court. They also show the existence of
Informative signs inside the garbage rooms.

Likewise, among the matters to be dealt with in the Minutes of the Ordinary General Meeting, of
dates 05/31/2018 and 05/23/2019, which provides, there is none related to the
approval of the installation of a video surveillance system.

For its part, the defendant acknowledges that the building consists of 57 devices, except for the
of the gym that has been deactivated since April 2022, and provides a certificate
issued by the secretary of the Community of Owners on 05/03/2022 where it declares
that in the Ordinary General Meeting of 04/24/2017 it was agreed "the extension of the
installation of surveillance cameras to garages and others. Different offers will be considered
undertaking the installation of the cameras by an approved company and its declaration
to the Data Protection Agency. (…)”. Regarding the informative posters of
video-surveilled area, the photographs you provide prove the existence of these hallmarks
not only in the garbage rooms, but also in the garage and at the main entrance of
access to the community.

However, in the monitor photographs of the captured images it is observed
that the perimeter cameras capture excessive public roads but they are not clear, for
which is requested to send individual photos of all perimeter cameras
exteriors, as of 05/06/2022. In your reply, you provide photographs from 16 cameras
external perimeters in which it is appreciated that they continue to capture excessive and do not
proportional to public roads, despite the fact that some have a privacy mask.
Specifically, the cameras called:

-

-

-

"Garage entrance B and C" capture sidewalk, road and parked vehicles.

“***ADDRESS.1” and “Camera 1” have privacy masks, but still
They continue to capture excessive public roads (sidewalks, roadways and parked vehicles).

"Pádel" has a mask, but a disproportionate outdoor area is captured
(All a dirt road).

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the facts exposed could suppose a violation
of what is established in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, for which reason they could imply the
commission of an offense classified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, which provides
following:

 Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/15

in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; (…)”

SAW

 Sanction proposal

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the protection of
Data, as a control authority, are established in article 58.2 of the GDPR. Between
they have the power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with the
article 83 of the GDPR -article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the person responsible or
processor that the processing operations comply with the
provisions of the GDPR, where applicable, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term -article 58. 2 d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

In the present case, taking into account the facts exposed and without prejudice to what
results from the instruction of the procedure, it is considered that the sanction that
It would be appropriate to impose an administrative fine. The fine imposed shall
be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the
Article 83.1 of the GDPR. In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed,
to observe the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, which indicates:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/15

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement”.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/15

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have included the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity

f) Affectation of the rights of minors

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party”.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating what is established in its article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, allows to set as valuation
initial fine of €1,500 (one thousand five hundred euros).

VII

 possible measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period to be determined:

- Evidence of having removed the camera or video camera system
of the current place or accredit the regularization of the cameras in accordance with
current regulations.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

VIII

 Conclusion

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/15

 

INITIATE SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

 COMMUNITY
FIRST:
OWNER R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1, for the alleged violation of article 5.1.c)
of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.

SECOND: THAT for the purposes provided in article 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
(LPACAP), the corresponding sanction would be an ADMINISTRATIVE FINE
of €1,500 (one thousand five hundred euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infringement, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of
measures in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the GDPR.

THIRD: APPOINT C.C.C. as instructor, (and secretary, if applicable, D.D.D.)
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data on actions carried out prior to the start of this
sanctioning procedure.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to COMMUNITY OWNER R.R.R.,
with NIF ***NIF.1, granting a hearing period of ten business days so that
Formulate the allegations and present the evidence that you consider appropriate. In its
pleadings must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears
at the top of this document

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed other than a fine, may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present initiation agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction that should be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent to €300 (three hundred euros). With the application of
this reduction, the penalty would be set at €1,200 (one thousand two hundred euros),
resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount, equivalent to €300 (three hundred
euro). With the application of this reduction, the penalty would be established at €1,200.
(one thousand two hundred euros) and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/15

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
set at €900 (nine hundred euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (€1200 or €900), you must make it effective by depositing
in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating
in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The disciplinary procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
from the date of the start agreement or, where appropriate, the start agreement project.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

948-110422

>>

SECOND: On September 23, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to the
payment of the penalty in the amount of 900 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/15

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202203322, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/15

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to OWNER COMMUNITY
R.R.R.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

