1/12

 

 

 

 

 

Decision of the General Secretariat nr. 01/2020

from September 24, 2020

 

 

 

Subject: Decision on accreditation criteria for supervisory bodies

responsible for monitoring compliance with codes of conduct (AH-2019-0106).

 

The General Secretariat of the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter “the General Secretariat”);

 

Having regard to the law of December 3, 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, and in particular

article 20,§1,6° (hereinafter “LCA”);

 

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), and in

particularly sections 41.3, 57.1(p), and 64.1(c);

 

Having regard to the law of July 30, 2018 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing

of personal data, and in particular Article 187 (hereinafter “LTD”);

 

Having regard to the internal regulations of the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter "the Authority"), and in

particular Article 15;

 

Having regard to the guidelines 01/2019 on codes of conduct and supervisory bodies (hereafter

“Guidelines 01/2019”) adopted on June 4, 2020 by the European Committee for the Protection of

data (hereinafter “EDPS”).

 

Having regard to Opinion 02/2020 of the EDPS adopted on 28 January 2020 concerning the decision of the General Secretariat

laying down the criteria for the accreditation of supervisory bodies responsible for monitoring compliance

codes of conduct.

 

Adopts, on September 24, 2020, the Decision setting the criteria for the accreditation of certification bodies

supervisors responsible for monitoring compliance with the following codes of conduct:

.
 .

.
.

Decision SG 01/2020- 2/12

 

 

I.

Introduction

1. In compliance with article 41.1 of the GDPR and with the guidelines 01/2019, the codes of

national and transnational conduct must be supervised by an oversight body

accredited by the competent data protection authority. The only exception to this

rule is provided for by Article 41.6 of the GDPR which stipulates that the designation of a

supervision is not required for processing carried out by public authorities.

 

2. In accordance with Guidelines 01/2019, §64 and §65, the supervisory body

perhaps external or internal to the owner of the code of conduct1. For example, an organization

internal oversight perhaps an ad hoc internal committee or a separate department within

of the code owner.

 

3. To be accredited by the Authority, an oversight body must fulfill all the criteria

of accreditation listed by this Decision established on the basis of the requirements of Article 41.2

of the GDPR and section 12 of the guidelines 01/2019. Oversight body

maintains its accreditation as long as the Authority does not find that it no longer meets the criteria

of accreditation.

4. The Authority points out that in accordance with Article 41.1 of the GDPR and the guidelines

01/2019, accreditation as an oversight body is only possible for a

or more specific codes.

 

5. By this Decision, the Authority encourages the development of codes of conduct for

very small, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to promote a

uniform and consistent application of the GDPR, in order to increase legal certainty for

controllers and processors and to strengthen the trust of the people

concerned. The requirement for codes of conduct to be overseen by a regulatory body.

accredited supervision should not be an obstacle to the development of codes of conduct.

Therefore, the application of the accreditation criteria for supervisory bodies must

take into account the specific processing of each sector and must be as

flexible as possible while complying with the legal framework imposed by the GDPR,

Guidelines 01/2019 and EDPS Opinions.

 

                                                

1 The code owner designates the association or other organization that develops and presents its code.

09/24/2020

AH-2019-0106 - EN.DOCX

...

SG Decision 01/2020- 3/12

 

 

II.

Accreditation criteria

 

1. Independence and impartiality

The oversight body must demonstrate its independence and impartiality. He must

demonstrate how its organization and its formal rules of appointment ensure that it is in

position to act without receiving instructions and being protected from any kind of interference or

sanctions on the part of the members of the code or the owner of the code resulting from the exercise of its

functions. This must be demonstrated through four main aspects: the legal aspect and

relating to the decision-making procedures, the financial aspect, the organizational aspect and the

accountability.

 

Requirement 1.1

The legal aspect and relating to decision-making procedures

-

the legal structure of the oversight body, including the composition of its capital,

should protect the oversight body from external pressures. It can be demonstrated,

for example, by submitting the following documents: the statutes of the supervising organization

or those of the code owner.

-

the oversight body’s decision-making procedures should ensure that

both the design and application of the decision-making process should protect the organization from

supervision of any pressure. The independence and impartiality of the decision-making process

can be demonstrated, for example, by submitting the organization chart of the

oversight and ownership of the code or a description of the decision-making process that puts

highlight the roles and prerogatives of all parties involved in the process

leading to decision making.

 

Requirement 1.2

The financial aspect

The oversight body should demonstrate that the rules governing its funding prevent

risk that a member of the code of conduct will end its financial contribution in order to

avoid corrective action imposed by the oversight body. This requirement can be

fulfilled, for example, by providing explanations of the financial arrangements between the organization

supervision and code members, including regarding the calculation of contributions, the frequency

at which contributions are paid and the financial arrangements in the event of a member's withdrawal

code.

 

 

09/24/2020

AH-2019-0106 - EN.DOCX

...

Decision SG 01/2020- 4/12

Requirement 1.3

The organizational aspect

The oversight body must demonstrate that it is free to choose, direct and manage its personnel

in order to accomplish the tasks assigned to it. That the choice of staff be made by

the oversight body itself or an external service provider, the recruitment process, the management

and dismissal of staff should not be influenced by the code owner or any

code member. In order to fulfill this requirement, the oversight body may, for example, provide

evidence including job descriptions, personnel files, resources devoted

staff recruitment and reporting lines.

An internal oversight body should provide additional information about

its relationship with the owner of the code in order to provide proof of its impartiality and

independence. Proof of these can be provided, among other things, by proof of the elements

following:

-

-

-

-

information barriers;

separation of reporting lines;

separation of operational functions;

separation of management functions.

 

Requirement 1.4

Accountability

The oversight body should submit a document that explains its independence and

impartiality towards:

members of the code;

the association or other body mentioned in recital 98 of the GDPR and article 40.2 of the

GDPR, having submitted a code of conduct for approval.

-

-

 

Accountability can be demonstrated by evidence that the oversight body has put in place

a framework defining the attributions and procedures for deferral as well as the decision-making processes

decision allowing his independence. Evidence of this may include, without limitation, the

job descriptions, reporting lines and policies put in place to

make staff aware of the governance structures and procedures in place (for example,

professional training).

 

The oversight body shall retain documentation and evidence of its compliance with all

accreditation criteria and must make them available to the Authority upon request.

 

09/24/2020

AH-2019-0106 - EN.DOCX

...

The oversight body should keep a record of actions taken in the performance of its duties, including

including, where applicable, the dates, durations, types of actions taken, members of the code concerned,

SG Decision 01/2020- 5/12

reactions of the code member and consequences of the action taken.

 

This register must be made available to the Authority upon request.

 

2. Absence of conflict of interest

 

Requirement 2.1

The oversight body must demonstrate the absence of any conflict of interest related to the personnel of the

the oversight body and the oversight body itself.

 

Staff Conflicts of Interest

In order to avoid conflicts of interest relating to its staff, the oversight body must put in place

documented procedures to prevent, detect and eliminate any potential conflict

of interest that its employees and managerial functions may have.

 

This procedure must ensure that the functions performed by employees and management personnel,

past and present, do not interfere with their independence in the performance of their duties.

 

The absence of conflict of interest on the part of employees and management functions may be

demonstrated, for example, through recruitment procedures, remuneration, sanctions

disciplinary measures, the duration of employment contracts, additional professional commitments,

work regulations and provisions of employment contracts.

 

Conflicts of interest related to the oversight body

The supervisory body may not engage in any action incompatible with its functions and

attributions and cannot receive instructions from any individual, organization or association.

 

The oversight body should identify situations that may create a conflict of interest and should

put in place internal rules to avoid conflicts of interest triggered by its

activities, relationships, organization or procedures. This requirement can be fulfilled by

providing, for example, evidence such as the organization's risk management strategy

monitoring.

 

 

 

 

09/24/2020

AH-2019-0106 - EN.DOCX

...

Decision SG 01/2020- 6/12

3. Expertise

 

Requirement 3.1

The oversight body must demonstrate that it has the skills required to exercise the

oversight of the code of conduct it is responsible for overseeing.

 

The oversight body must provide evidence of its competence in the following areas:

-

in-depth knowledge of data protection legislation and

experience in putting this legislation into practice;

-

knowledge and experience of the sector or processing for which he will act as

as oversight body;

-

knowledge and experience in auditing to establish its competence to supervise the

compliance of code members with the code of conduct.

 

The requirement for additional skills can be defined by the code of conduct. Skills

of each oversight body will be assessed against the specific expertise requested

by the supervised code of conduct.

 

Expertise can be demonstrated, for example, by providing sufficient proof of the level of

training, education and experience of staff in the above areas. For example, by

diplomas, certifications and proof of acquired experience.

 

Requirement 3.2

The oversight body must demonstrate that its level of competence is appropriate to the risks

created for the data subjects, the complexity and the level of risk presented by the

treatments covered by the code of conduct, the potential importance of the sector concerned, and the

projected number of code members.

 

Requirement 3.3

The oversight body must commit to maintaining a sufficient level of legal competence,

technical and auditing through continuous professional training of staff.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

09/24/2020

AH-2019-0106 - EN.DOCX

...

Decision SG 01/2020- 7/12

4. Procedure and structure of the oversight body

 

Requirement 4.1

The oversight body should demonstrate that it has a structure in place to assess and

check the eligibility of data controllers and/or processors who wish to become

members of the code of conduct.

 

Requirement 4.2

The oversight body should demonstrate that it has a structure in place to assess and

continuously monitoring the compliance of code members with the provisions of the code of conduct.

 

This control structure must at least provide for:

-

an audit procedure to be carried out within a defined interval (recurring and ad hoc) determined in

based on criteria such as the risks created for the persons concerned, the complexity and

the level of risk presented by the processing covered by the code of conduct,

the potential importance of the sector concerned, the anticipated number of members of the code, the

geographical scope of the code and the number of complaints received;

-

an audit methodology, which specifies the assessment criteria, the type of audit to be carried out and the

documentation of the findings established by the audit;

-

a procedure for identifying, investigating and resolving breaches of the Code of

conduct;

-

an obligation for members of the code to regularly report to the supervisory body

on their compliance with the code.

 

Requirement 4.3

The oversight body must demonstrate that it has sufficient staff to

perform its supervisory duties properly.

 

The number and type of employees required depends on criteria such as the risks created for

data subjects, the complexity and level of risk presented by the processing operations covered

by the code of conduct, the potential importance of the sector concerned, the anticipated number of

code members. This requirement can be met, for example, by proof of an organizational chart

of the oversight body describing the number and roles of employees assigned to each

function.

 

 

 

 

09/24/2020

AH-2019-0106 - EN.DOCX

...

SG Decision 01/2020- 8/12

Requirement 4.4

The oversight body must demonstrate that its employees are bound by an obligation of

confidentiality in the performance of their duties.

 

Requirement 4.5

The oversight body must demonstrate that it has the financial resources and stability

sufficient financial resources to carry out its tasks (in accordance with criterion 8.4).

 

 

5. Complaints and penalties

 

Requirement 5.1

The oversight body should put in place a complaints procedure. This

procedure must also be detailed in the supervised code of conduct.

 

The said procedure must provide for the handling of complaints lodged by the persons concerned, and

by the bodies, organizations or associations mentioned in Article 80 of the GDPR against

code members.

 

This procedure must specify the form the complaint takes (in writing or electronically), a

point of contact in charge of handling the complaint, the procedure for handling the complaint, and the

different resolution options provided for in the supervised code of conduct.

 

This procedure must be made public and be transparent.

  

Requirement 5.2

The oversight body must acknowledge receipt of the complaint received.

 

The complainant must be informed of the progress or resolution of the complaint no later than three months

after receipt of the complaint.

 

The period for resolving the complaint may be, if necessary, reasonably extended taking into account

the complexity of the complaint. The oversight body must inform the complainant of such

extension within three months of receipt of the complaint, as well as the reasons justifying this

extension.

 

 

 

09/24/2020

AH-2019-0106 - EN.DOCX

...

Decision SG 01/2020- 9/12

Requirement 5.3

The oversight body should maintain a record of all complaints received and should ensure that

the decisions taken by the organization are made public. In addition, the oversight body should

regularly publish statistical data, including, its supervision activity including the

number of complaints received, type of violations and corrective measures taken.

 

Requirement 5.4

 

The oversight body must provide evidence that it has adopted adequate corrective measures,

as defined in the code of conduct, in the event of violation of the code in order to put an end to the violation

and prevent a future occurrence of the breach. These sanctions may include, follow-up training,

a warning, a report of the member to the management committee, a formal notification, the suspension

or expulsion of the member.

 

6.Communication

 

Requirement 6.1

The oversight body must submit an annual report to the Authority setting out its

activities and decisions.

 

The supervisory body must also communicate to the Authority any action taken in the event of

violation of the code of conduct and the reasons justifying this action. The frequency of this

communication depends on criteria such as the risks created for the persons concerned, the

complexity and level of risk presented by the processing operations covered by the code of conduct,

the potential importance of the sector concerned, the anticipated number of members of the code, the seriousness

and the frequency of violations and actions taken as defined in the code of conduct.

 

Requirement 6.2

The oversight body must put in place a procedure to communicate without delay to

l'Authority :

-

tout changement substantiel de son organization et/ou structure de nature à affecter sa

Capacité à exerciser ses fonctions impartiallement, dans l'indépendance et efficacement. ces

changes substantial peuvent include :

o an amendment of the statut juridique, commercial et organisationel;

o a changement in the organization of the function clés et au be de l'équipe

conductor ;

o a modification of the resources financières et de la localization de l'organisme de

supervision ;

24/09/2020

AH-2019-0106 - FR.DOCX

...

Decision SG 01/2020- 10/12

o a modification importante du nombre de membres du code.

la suspension ou l'exclusion de membres du code ;

a substantial violation of the code de conduite ainsi que des informations details la

-

-

violation and the actions prizes.

  

Exigence 6.3

L'organme de supervision doit mettre en place a procedure afin de rendre publiques les

information suivantes :

-

-

-

a general description of the mechanisms of financement of the organization of supervision;

des informations concernant les procedures de traitement des plaintes;

des informations concernant le code de conduite supervised et les mécanismes de supervision

(including les procedures mentioned aux critères 6.1, 6.2, 7.1, et 7.2, les règles et les

procedures d'octroi, de maintien, de suspension, d'exclusion et de retrait du code) telles

qu'établies dans les règles et procedures du code de conduite supervised ;

-

toutes les mesures correctrices conduisant à l'exclusion du code de conduite telles qu'établies

dans les rules and procedures du code de conduite supervised.

 

7. Revision mechanisms

 

Exigence 7.1

L'organisme de supervision doit mettre en place des procédures permettant de prendre en compte

une modification du cadre réglementaire affectant substantiellement les dispositions du code de

conduite.

 

Exigence 7.2

L'organme de supervision se doit de contribuer à sa mesure à la révision du fonctionnement du code

de conduite et de mettre en place des mechanismes permettant de consulter le propriétaire du code

ainsi que toute other parties mentioned in the code de conduite. Par example, en mettant en place

une obligation de report sur le fonctionnement du code auprès du propriétaire du code et de toute

Other parties mentioned in the code de conduite.

 

8. Statut juridique et structure organisationnelle

 

Exigence 8.1

L'organme de supervision doit indiquer s'il agit en tant qu'organme de supervision interne ou

external vis-à-vis you propriétaire du code.

 

 

24/09/2020

AH-2019-0106 - FR.DOCX

...

Decision SG 01/2020- 11/12

Exigence 8.2

Indépendamment de sa forme juridique, l'organme de supervision devra être constitué de manière

à ce qu'il puisse être tenu responsable, à ce qu'il puisse exercer son rôle en vertu de l'article 41(4) du

RGDP et à ce qu'il puisse se voir imposer une amende en vertu de l'article 83.4.c) du RGPD.

 

Exigence 8.3

The organization that supervises it is up to date in the Espace Economique européen ("EEE").

 

Exigence 8.4

The organization of supervision does not destroy the viability and the pérennité of ses activités de supervision

dans le temps, particulièrement eu égard au fait qu'il a mis en place des procédures permettant

d'assurer :

-

-

des ressources financières suffisantes (conformément à l'exigence 4.5) ;

d'avoir suffisamment de personnel pour remplir ses fonctions (conformément à l'exigence

4.3)

 

Exigence 8.5

L'organisme de supervision doit s'engager formellement à se conformer à la législation applicable et,

en particulier, aux dispositions du RGPD.

 

Exigence 8.6

Lorsque des marques, signs or similar instruments that are used for reflecting the conformity with le

code de conduite, l'organisme de supervision se doit de prendre les mesures nécessaires requises en

cas d'usage frauduleux de ces instruments (par exemple, références incorrectes ou usage trompeur)

de ces marques, signs ou instruments similaires.

 

9. Sous traitants

 

Exigence 9.1

Lorsque l'organme de supervision recruit a sous-contractant pour exercer certaines de ses

missions, l'organme de supervision reste responsable pour toutes les missions sous-contractées.

 

Exigence 9.2

L'organme de supervision se doit de préciser les tâches et rôles qu'exerceront les sous-contractants

lors de la demande d'acréditation.

 

 

 

24/09/2020

AH-2019-0106 - FR.DOCX

...

Decision SG 01/2020- 12/12

Exigence 9.3

L'organme de supervision doit demontrer que son sous-contractant remplit toutes les exigences

Listées dans la presente decision et en particulier les requirements 1,2,3,8.5.

 

L'organme de supervision doit demontrer que le sous-contractant est tenu par ces exigences et peut

s'y conformer en pratique.

 

Exigence 9.4

Sans préjudice de l'exigence 6.3, l'organme de supervision doit mettre en place une procédure lui

permettant de communiquer sans délai auprès de l'Autorité tous les changements substantiels liés à

un sous-contractant qui pourraient affecter l'organization et/ou la structure de l'organisme de

supervision et pourrait affecter sa capacité à exercer sa function correctement. Ce's changements

substantial peuvent include :

la cessation de l'arrangement avec le sous-contractant ;

le replacement du sous-contractant par un autre.

-

-

 

 

10. Languages

 

Exigence 10.1

Toute the documentation demonstrating the conformity with les présentes exigences doit être soumise en

néerlandais, français ou all other langue à l'apréciation de l'Autorité.

 

 

 

David Stevens

Directeur du Secretaire General

24/09/2020

AH-2019-0106 - FR.DOCX

 

