
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/17/2020
                                Data protection and data economy are to be observed in video conferences - data protection conference offers assistance - Kugelmann: Which systems are to be operated in accordance with the law must be carefully checked explains the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann: "With the "Lockdown Light" the number of video conferences in companies, associations, clubs and educational institutions has increased again. In Rhineland-Palatinate, many teachers also turn to us and want to know what is important when selecting, setting up and operating video conferencing systems. From the point of view of data protection officers, it should be carefully checked which systems are to be operated in a legally compliant manner and in what form. It is particularly important that there is a legal basis for the personal data collected and that the principles of data economy, transparency and state-of-the-art encryption are observed who operate a video conferencing service themselves or have it operated by service providers, and to users. The reason for the creation was increasing uncertainty among users and those responsible. The orientation guide describes which technical and organizational measures are to be implemented. When using video conferencing systems, personal data of the participants and, if necessary, of third parties are processed, including their statements in audio and video. The person responsible for conducting the video conference requires a legal basis for this data processing. If a video conference provider is used who also wants to use personal data for their own purposes or for the purposes of third parties, it is usually difficult to justify a legal basis for the associated disclosure of the data. In relation to a processor, it must therefore be ensured in the order processing contract that the processor only processes the personal data of the participating persons on the instructions of the person responsible and not for its own purposes. In addition to the orientation aid, the DSK publishes a checklist in which the legal and technical requirements for video conference systems are summarized in a clear form. Further information:-    Orientation aid video conference systems of the DSK-    Checklist Video conference systems of the DSK-    Text on "Use of video conference systems" on the website of the LfDI RLP- Text on "Video-supported communication technology in school lessons" on the LfDI RLP website
                                return
                            



