Athens, 15-10-2018

 

      

Prot. No.: G/EX/8160/15-10-2018
 

 

 

 

 

  

  

 

GREEK EMPIRE
 

 

PRINCIPLE OF PROTECTION OF E OMEN
 

 

 

OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

 
 

A P O F A S I NO. 64 / 2018
 

    

    

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority held a meeting at the headquarters
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on 15-05-2018 at 10:00 a.m. following the invitation of its President, for this purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to examine the case referred to in the present history. They were represented by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President of the Authority, Constantos Menoudakos and the regular members of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Konstantinos Christodoulou, Antonios Symvonis, Spyron Vlachopoulos,
 

 

 

 

 

 

Constantos Lambrinoudakis, as rapporteur, Charalambos Anthopoulos and Eleni
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Martsoukou. Also present at the meeting, by order of the President, were I.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lykotraf, expert scientist-computer auditor, as assistant rapporteur, and n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Department of Administrative Affairs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

Submitted to the Authority no. prot. C/EIS/7294/12-10-2017 his report
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. With this report, he informed the Authority about a finding of the European
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Treatment or Punishment, a body of the Council of Europe (hereinafter "Commission" or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CPT – European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Treatment or Punishment), as it has been included in the report he prepared
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a team of inspectors from the Commission after a visit to Greece on 14-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23/04/2015 (this is the document "CPT/Inf (2016) 4" report dated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
01/03/2016,

available
 

and
 

online
 

here:
 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel.: 210-6475600, Fax: 210-6475628, contact@dpa.gr, www.dpa.gr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
-1-

 

 

http://rm.coe.int/CoERMPublicCommonSearchServices/DisplayDCTMContent?documentI

d=090000168069667e). The finding related to a hidden camera in "a thusa
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"lawyers' consultation room" in the Sub-Directorate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of crimes against life and property (hereinafter YDEZI) on the ... floor of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GADA.
 

Specifically, in said report it is noted (from the translation that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was included in no. prot. G/EIS/827/30-01-2018 document of EL.AS.): "48.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Additionally, the CPT has serious privacy concerns in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attorney-client relationship. A few of the police facilities he visited,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they offered separate areas where prisoners could consult with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their advocates and where they existed had no serious provision for privacy. For
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for example, the room on the ground floor of A.T. [area] X used for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prisoner-advocate communication had a Plexiglas window, through which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the conversation was easy to understand.
 
 

 

 

 

Prisoners and their advocates were put in even greater danger by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

set up in the "lawyers communication room" at YDEZI (Prosecution Assistance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of crimes against life and property) which is located on the ... floor of GADA,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

where the CPT delegation found a hidden recording camera, which was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

connected to audio-visual recording equipment in the Deputy's Office
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Director of the Directorate of Murders and Kidnappings34. It is undeniable that this constitutes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

serious violation of basic guarantees of the C.P.D...
 

 

 

 

 

 

The right of access to a lawyer should include the right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meeting with him in person. Consult with a lawyer of a person under police custody
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

detention must take place away from the eyes and ears of the police.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It should certainly never be recorded and monitored by investigators
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

policemen. Over and above the risk that one's right to a fair trial a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to be irretrievably endangered by this relentless police activity, one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a prisoner may not feel free to disclose the manner in which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are treated.
 

Consequently, the CPT recommends that the Greek authorities take the necessary measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

steps to ensure that police detainees can speak to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their lawyer in person. In addition, a registration survey must be conducted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and follow-up carried out by the Homicide Unit. The Commission a or ele
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-2-

 

also receive confirmation that the tracking mechanism has been removed from it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"lawyers' room" on the ... floor of G.A.D.A..
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Footnote 34. The camera was hidden in the speaker grill in the room
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lawyer. It was connected to a transformer and cable, which reappeared
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the Office of Assoc. You can see several rooms below. There it was connected to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a fully functional TV and recording device. When asked about it, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deputy Director stated: “When lawyers are alone with prisoners,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the space must be observed".
 

 

 

 

 

In its response to the above report, the Greek Government states
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

about this finding (roughly translated from the original text in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

English, which is available in the Annex): “Paragraph 48: Request for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information, Complaints about the existence of a camera in the "communication with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lawyers" on the ... floor of the General Police Headquarters of Attica.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Sworn Administrative Examination was ordered, which was assigned to the Sub-Directorate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Examinations of GADA. Moreover, according to its head
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sub-prosecution of crimes against life and property (YDEZI), the system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this was obsolete, due to normal weather, and as it was technically out of date as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

malfunctioning and has already been removed.
 

 

 

 

 

After the completion of the investigation and only the competent decision-making bodies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reach their verdict, we will inform you of the result".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Then, with the no. prot. C/EX/8443/24-11-2017 call, Greek
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Police (hereafter EL.AS.) was summoned before the Authority at the meeting of 12-14-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to provide clarifications and express her views on the case. From
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on behalf of EL.AS., the meeting was attended by B, Police Director of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sub-Directorate of Lifetime Crime Prosecution and Ownership of the Directorate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Attica Security, who presented his views orally and responded to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

questions from the members of the Authority. Then, the Authority with no. prot. G/EX/7294-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2/22-12-2017 her document called EL.AS. to grant the data to those who have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

said its representative at the above meeting. EL.AS filed them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in addition to these items with no. prot. C/EIS/827/30-01-2018 document, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which was then completed with the nos. prot. G/EIS/ G/EIS/828/30-01-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and C/EIS/3219/27-04-2018 documents. Following the no. prot. C/EX/3470/08-05-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-3-

 

2018 call, EL.AS. attended the Authority's meeting again on 05-15-2018, at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which was again represented by B.
  

 

 

 

 

 

In these documents that the alleged EL.AS. filed with the Authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is stated, in support of what B verbally mentioned in the above meetings, that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to investigate the findings contained in the CPT Report
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a Sworn Administrative Examination conducted by the Sub-Directorate was ordered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Examinations of the Head of EL.AS. and the acting Officer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

suggested that the case be put on file, a proposal with which he also agreed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Director of the competent Department. In addition, EL.AS. states that the CPT Report
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was submitted by the Directorate of Internal Affairs of the Head of the Hellenic Republic of Greece. in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Athens District Attorney's Office, where in the end no criminal charges were brought against him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a person and the case was brought to the office o. Answering a related question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Authority, EL.AS. notes that no administrative act of EL.AS is available. where
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to concern the installation of the said video surveillance system.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Also, the Technical Committee of the 6th Department of the Technical Directorate
 
Applications of the Head of EL.AS. inspect the particular system and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

found that the video camera has multiple faults, yes it is outdated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technology and in no case can it cover the existing Service
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Needs. Also the transformer/charger due to aging of its components does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is functional, while the repair of the above materials is impossible due to lack
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

spare parts.
  

Among the documents submitted to the Authority is the document with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

YDEZI's views on the findings of the CPT. In this document it is stated that v
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the tour of the CPT members to the premises of YDEZI on 18/04/2015 was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

keep in mind that the area intended for "lawyers' communication room" does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exists in the service, but the space in question could be used as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exception for such communication, in case no other office is available
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the service a. Instead, the aforementioned space is used as space
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bringing in people,
 

 

fingerprinting and recording/temporary storage
 

 

 

 

persuasive The camera in question is located in this room by the authorities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the 1990s but it never worked given the technical texture
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

issues that arose in the first place (inability to transmit a clear image, lack of sound)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

falling into disuse a.
 

 

 

 

 

-4-

 

The same paper supports the view that because the camera was placed before
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

since 1997, the year of issuance of Law 2472/1997, does not fall within the scope of the law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his. The camera was removed on 26-09-2015 and, as it was kept P.O.E.,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its dissolution took place.
 

 

 

 

In the documents transmitted with no. prot. C/EIS/3219/27-04-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transfer letter from YDEZI states, among other things, that the space in question (room)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is used as a multi-purpose area, i.e.: examination and questioning of a suspect,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

physical search and fingerprinting, recording, photography and temporary storage
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persistent, temporary stay of particularly dangerous criminals. It is noted that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

even in cases where the space was not reserved for the above needs,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it was also possible to use it as a place of temporary stay for prisoners
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the consequent also their conversation/communication with their advocates. However, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a specific space has been used for at least the last five years
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exclusively and only as a place of storage of persuasives. In the documents it is stated that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

placement of the system for the sole purpose of monitoring the detainees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

people, the safety of employees and staff, prevention
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of any illegal action and the control by the Head of Department of their compliance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedural rules by his subordinates during the examination and interrogation of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

suspects. The camera was covered with a protective frame to protect it from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

acts of sabotage by those involved or even by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personnel so that they do not tamper with it and cause damage. Finally, regarding the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

visit of the CPT committee, it is noted that the delegation was accompanied by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interpreter and communication, questions and requests were conveyed through him with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

resulting in difficulties in the immediacy and completeness of communication. With
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the above documents, relevant photographic material received by the Commission was also forwarded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the said space and the said video surveillance system (cameras and cables
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transmission).
 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file and the opinions that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

developed by EL.AS. at the 14-12-2017 meeting, after hearing the rapporteur and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant rapporteur, who left after the debate and before the conference and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision making, and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-5-

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. According to article 2 par. a' of Law 2472/1997 and recitals 14-17
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the introduction of Directive 95/46/EC, the image data, if they refer to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons, constitute personal data.
  

 

 

 

 

 

2. The storage and reading of a facial image, which is collected by a system
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance, which operated permanently, continuously or at regular intervals,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in a closed or open place of gathering or passage of persons, recommends
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data in whole or in part
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

automated within the meaning of articles 2 par. d' and 3 par. 1 Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. In accordance with Article 4 of Law 2472/1997, personal data to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject to lawful processing we must:
 

 

 

 

a) To be collected in a legitimate and legal manner for specified, clear and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legitimate purposes and to be legitimate and lawful processing in view of the purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these.
 

b) To be relevant, convenient, and not more than what is each time required in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in view of the purposes of our processing.
 

 

 

 

 

c) Be accurate and, if necessary, be updated.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d) To be kept in a form that allows their identity to be determined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their subjects only during the period required, during its term
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority, for carrying out the purposes of their collection and processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their.
  

 

4. Pursuant to Article 5, data processing is permitted only when the subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has given his consent, while processing is permitted as an exception
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

without his consent, when a) The processing is necessary for the execution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contract, in which contracting party is the data subject or for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

taking measures at the request of the subject during the pre-contractual stage, b) H
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing is necessary for the fulfillment of an obligation of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, which is required by law, c) The processing is necessary for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safeguarding the vital interest of the subject, if this ends in physical or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal inability to give his consent, d) The processing is necessary for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the execution of a project of public interest or a project that falls within the exercise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of public authority and executed by or delegated by a public authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-6-

 

to the third party processor, to whom the data is disclosed, or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e) The processing is absolutely necessary to satisfy the law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interest pursued by the controller or the third party or third parties
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to whom the data is communicated and under the condition that this obviously prevails
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the rights and interests of the persons referred to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data and their fundamental freedoms are not affected.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. According to article 6 par. 1 of Law 2472/1997, the processor is obliged
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to notify the Authority, in writing, of the establishment and operation of the office
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

start processing let's.
  

 

 

 

6. According to article 10 of Law 2472/1997, "the data controller must receive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the appropriate organizational and technical measures for data security and...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

...and any other form of non-commercial processing. These measures must ensure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

level of security commensurate with the risks involved in the processing and h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nature of the data that is the object of the processing...".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. Pursuant to article 11 par. 1 of Law 2472/1997, the controller must, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the stage of collecting personal data, to inform in a way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

suitable and clear subject for at least the following elements: identity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the identity of any representative thereof, the purpose of our processing, them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recipients or the categories of recipients of the data, and its existence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

right of access.
 

 

 

8. With the no. 1/2011 Directive of the Authority, its issue is analyzed in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

installation of video surveillance systems for the purpose of protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons and goods. According to article 5 of said Guide, the legality
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of our processing is considered in the context of the purpose pursued by the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, which imposes them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

video surveillance systems are convenient and necessary in relation to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intended purpose, which should not have been achieved by milder means
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Article 4 of Law 2472/1997). Its affordability and necessity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of video surveillance is estimated based on the risk that the controller wants
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to deal with in relation to the intended purpose.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Further, the installation points of the cameras and the way of receiving the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must be identified in such a way that the data collected does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Yes, more than what is absolutely necessary for the fulfillment of its purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-7-

 

let's process and not affect the fundamental rights of the persons who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are located in the area that is being monitored and that this order is not violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

could be seen as a "legitimate expectation of a certain degree of protection of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy" in a specific area.
 

 

 

 

 

 

9. The principle of proportionality is further specified in article 6 of no. 1/2011
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guide, where it is specified that the processing of audio data for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purpose of protecting persons and/or goods, except in exceptional cases.
  
 

10. Also, according to article 7 of no. 1/2011 Guide let, the system should not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to be used for the surveillance of employees within the workplaces,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

except in special exceptional cases, in which this is justified by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nature and working conditions and is necessary for the protection of health and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the safety of employees or the protection of additional workplaces (e.g.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

military factories, banks, high-risk facilities). For example,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in a typical business office space, video surveillance should be limited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in entry and exit areas, without monitoring specific rooms
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

offices or corridors.
  

 

 

An exception may be specific spaces, such as cash registers or spaces with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safes, electromechanical equipment etc., provided that the cameras
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they focus on the asset they protect and not on the employees' premises.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Also, in special areas, such as areas with electromechanical installations o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

shift manager or the safety manager can actually monitor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

time the operators of high-risk machines, in order to intervene
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

immediately if an incident occurs, of course.
  
 

 

 

 

 

11. In article 12 of no. 1/2011 Guide let it be specified that for its application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No. 11 par. 1 of Law 2472/1997, the controller must, before a person
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

enter the range of the video surveillance system, to update it, in a way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obvious and understandable, that he is going to enter an area that is being videotaped.
 
 

12. In the present case, it is proven from the evidence of the file that there was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

placement of a hidden camera, capable of transmitting image and sound, in the space
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that of YDEZI on the ... floor of GADA, without the conditions having been met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of legality for the installation and operation of a video surveillance system,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

such as notifying the Authority or placing information boards. Moreover,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the purpose invoked by EL.AS., i.e. the surveillance of those brought
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-8-

 

persons, the safety of employees and staff, prevention
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of any illegal action and the control by the Head of Department of their compliance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedural rules by his subordinates during the examination and interrogation of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

suspects, does not constitute a legal reason for installing the camera, given that on the one hand
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the law does not provide for a relevant competence of EL.AS. and on the other hand no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it follows that there is a case of superior legal interest in the sense
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 5 par. 2 item 3 n. 2472/1997.
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13. Furthermore, when the report was submitted to the Authority, there was no immediate possibility
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intervention and on-site administrative control by the Authority, due to time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which has intervened and due to the fact that the camera has been removed. Even though it doesn't
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it was accepted that an administrative act has been issued approving the placement of art
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

because of the camera, the purpose of the placement was clear, as stated in the documents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submitted to the Authority. However, there is no evidence other than that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which results in the operation and use of the camera during the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meetings of detainees with their lawyers. Therefore, he cannot
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

certainty to document that personnel data processing was carried out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character through video recording using said camera.
  
 

14. Taking into account the above, and considering that it could not be proved that processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data, but it turns out that the camera was installed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the above area belonging to EL.AS., the Authority considers that it should address
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in EL.AS. relevant recommendation.
 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

The Authority issues a recommendation, based on no. 19 par. 1 c' of Law 2472/1997, at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hellenic Police as responsible for our processing, as cares to be observed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

henceforth the legal conditions
 

 

 

 

installation and operating systems
 

 

 

 

video surveillance.
 

 

 

 

-9-

 



The president
 

 

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

Konstantinos Menudakos
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-10-

 

