

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data in the notification register maintained under Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on conflict of interests (Ministry of Justice)



On the basis of the control plan for 2018, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the processing of personal data in the central register of notifications maintained pursuant to Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on conflicts of interest, which is a public administration information system and which contains a large amount of personal data, especially public officials. As part of the inspection, the Office also checked the initiative regarding this processing. The administrator of personal data of public officials in the register of processing according to Act No. 159/2006 Coll. is, according to § 14 of this Act, the Ministry of Justice. In connection with this processing, the inspectors checked in particular the collection, storage, provision and disposal of personal data (retention policy), from the point of view of the basic principles of personal data processing set out in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the legality of the processing according to Article 6 of this regulation, in the public and non-public part of the register, including decisions on providing data from the register to interviewers. They also focused on compliance with the rights of data subjects, both in connection with transparency and the fulfillment of the information obligation pursuant to Articles 12 and 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the right to access personal data pursuant to Article 15 of this Regulation, and in connection with with the right to correction and erasure according to Articles 16 and 17 of this regulation. The Office also checked the fulfillment of the administrator's obligations when adopting appropriate technical and organizational measures pursuant to Article 24 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, concluded processing contracts and security of personal data pursuant to Articles 32 and 33 of this Regulation, including the fulfillment of obligations pursuant to Act No. 181/2014 Coll., on cyber security. In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The inspection was conducted by the inspector MVDr. František Bartoš. Recommendation: The Office points to the fact that it is not possible to raise an objection against the processing of personal data based on the legal title of the fulfillment of a legal obligation, nor is it possible to terminate the processing and delete the data before the expiry of the period established by the legal regulations or based on them as a period necessary for data storage (storage limitation principle).

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Municipalities and state administration > Inspection of personal data processing in the notification register maintained by of Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on conflict of interests (Ministry of Justice)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



