1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00306/2020

938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In the sanctioning procedure PS/00306/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection before D. A.A.A., with NIF: ***NIF.1, owner of the website,
www.torosdelidia.es, (hereinafter, "the person claimed"), by virtue of a preliminary complaint
sat by D. B.B.B., (hereinafter, "the claimant"), and based on the following
following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 11/13/19, you have entered this Agency, filed a complaint
by the claimant in which he indicated, among others, the following:

“On the web www.torosdelidia.es, no legal notice has been published, contravening
this is stipulated in the LSSI. Likewise, the aforementioned website lacks a policy of
privacy and cookie policy”.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 07/08/20 an informative request is addressed to
the PUBLIC BUSINESS ENTITY RED.ES and the LOADING SYSTEMS GROUP
SL so that it could provide this Agency with the identification data of the owner of the
domain www.torosdelidia.es, answering both entities that the ownership of said
domain belongs to the claimed person.

THIRD
 : On 09/20/20, by this Agency, the website is consulted
 
reported, checking the following aspects of the privacy policy and
the cookie policy implemented on said page:

A).- Regarding the Privacy Policy:

It has been verified that, on the website www.torosdelidia.es, in the
<<create an account>>, located at the top of the page, collects personal data
registrants, such as name and email, as well as the option
tion to subscribe to the Newsletter, where you must enter the email.
There is NO link that redirects to the "privacy policy". It only exists in the
<<contact>> tab the following information: Email: info@torosdelidia.es

B).- Regarding the Cookies Policy:

b.1.- When accessing the main web page, www.torosdelidia.es, (first layer),
it is verified that, without accepting cookies or performing any action on the web,
They use, among others, the following persistent cookies:

_ga, expiring on July 8, 2022 and for performance purposes according to
https://cookiepedia.co.uk. According to https://cookiepedia.co.uk, associated with Google
Analytics.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

_gid, expiring on July 9, 2020 and for performance purposes according to
https://cookiepedia.co.uk. According to https://cookiepedia.co.uk, associated with Google
Analytics.

b.2.- There is NO banner or information on the use on this initial page
of cookies by the website.

b.3.- There is NO link on this home page that redirects to the “privacy policy”.
city”.

FOURTH: In view of the reported facts of the verifications carried out by
this Agency, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, dated
10/07/20, agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed, under
tude of the established powers, for failing to comply with the provisions of article 22.2 of the
LSSI, regarding the cookie policy of its website and 13 of the RGPD, regarding
the non-existence of a privacy policy on its website, verifying that there is a
treatment of personal data of users.

FIFTH: Notification of the initiation of the file, as of today, there is no evidence that res-
any objection has been given to the initiation of the file within the period granted
do for it.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and do-
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1.- Regarding the Privacy Policy, it has been verified that, on the website,
collect personal data, but there is no link that redirects to the "privacy policy".
privacy". There is only the following information in the <<contact>> tab:
Email: info@torosdelidia.es

2.- Regarding the Cookies Policy, it has been verified that, when accessing the page
main web, (first layer) and without accepting cookies or performing any action on
On the web, unnecessary ones like “_ga” and “_gid” are used.

There is no banner on this home page about the use of cookies and there is no
co there is no link that redirects to the "privacy policy".

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition:

 
About the Privacy Policy:

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of
Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free
Circulation of these Data (RGPD) recognizes each Control Authority and, as
established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD),
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

About the Cookies Policy:

In accordance with the provisions of art. 43.1, second paragraph, of the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic System (LSSI), is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

Regarding the privacy policy, article 13 of the RGPD, establishes the information that
must be provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data
personal:

II

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below: a) the identity and contact details of the
responsible and, where appropriate, his representative; b) the contact details of the delegate
data protection, where appropriate; c) the purposes of the treatment to which the data is intended.
personal data and the legal basis of the treatment; d) when the treatment is based
in article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a
third; e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case; f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to
a third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person in charge of the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent: a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or,
when this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this period; b) the
existence of the right to request access to data from the data controller
related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its
treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of the
data; c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal; d) the right to file a claim with
a control authority; e) if the communication of personal data is a requirement
legal or contractual, or a necessary requirement to enter into a contract, and if the
The interested party is obliged to provide personal data and is informed of the
possible consequences of not providing such data; f) the existence of decisions
you automate, including profiling, referred to in article 22,
paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information about the logic

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

applied, as well as the importance and expected consequences of said treatment
for the interested party.

Therefore, the known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed, for violation of article 13 of the RGPD.

For its part, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “the omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of
your personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD”

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

However, Article 58.2) of the RGPD provides that: "Each supervisory authority
will have all the following corrective powers indicated below: b)
sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation; (...); i) impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83,
in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the
circumstances of each particular case”, therefore, the corresponding sanction would be
of "warning",

In relation to the "Cookies Policy" of the claimed website, the facts
exposed suppose, on the part of the claimed entity, the commission of the infraction of the
article 22.2 of the LSSI, according to which:

III

“Service providers may use storage devices and
recovery of data in terminal equipment of the recipients, provided that
they have given their consent after they have been provided
clear and complete information on its use, in particular, on the purposes of the
data processing, in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, on the protection of personal data.

Where technically possible and effective, the recipient's consent to
Accepting the processing of the data may be facilitated through the use of the parameters
from the browser or other applications.

The foregoing will not prevent the possible storage or access of a technical nature to the sole
purpose of effecting the transmission of a communication over a communications network
electronic or, to the extent that is strictly necessary, for the provision of
a service of the information society expressly requested by the
addressee".

This Infraction is typified as "minor" in article 38.4 g), of the aforementioned Law, which
considers as such: “Use data storage and retrieval devices
when the information has not been provided or the consent of the
recipient of the service in the terms required by article 22.2.”, and may be

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000, in accordance with article 39 of the aforementioned
LSSI.

In accordance with these criteria, and considering that the person responsible for the website is
a natural person, it is deemed appropriate to impose a “warning” sanction, for
the infringement of article 22.2 of the LSSI, regarding the cookie policy.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

RESOLVE

NOTICE: to D. A.A.A., with NIF: ***NIF.1, owner of the website, www.torosdeli-
dia.es, due to infringement of articles 13 of the RGPD and 22.2 of the LSSI.
REQUEST: D. A.A.A., so that, within one month from this act of notification-
tion, proceed to take the necessary measures to:

- Adapt the privacy policy of the web page of its ownership to the stipulations

side in article 13 of the RGPD.

- Adapt the cookie policy of the website of its ownership to what is stipulated

in article 22.2 of the LSSI.

NOTIFY: this resolution to D. A.A.A..
In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

