1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00461/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: The inspection actions are initiated by the receipt of a letter of
notification of security breach of personal data sent by CAIXABANK,
S.A. in which they inform the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) that,
On September 2, 2019, the business unit involved began to
detect abnormal behavior in the client portfolio of certain former employees,
verifying possible leaks of information by them, before resolving their
contracts with the entity.

Reason for late notification:

They state that since the incident was reported, different investigations have been carried out.
internal actions aimed at verifying that the breach had actually been closed
produced, and its scope. It is when the actions to be carried out have been specified and defined.
carry out, including reporting the breach to the AEPD.

SECOND: In view of the aforementioned data security breach notification
data, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigation actions, having knowledge of the following
ends:

BACKGROUND

Date of notification of the security breach of personal data: January 17,
2020.

INVESTIGATED ENTITY

CAIXABANK, S.A. with NIF A08663619 and with address at c/ Pintor Sorolla nº2-
4,46002, Valencia.

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

On May 5, 2020, information was requested from CAIXABANK, S.A. and of the
The response received shows the following:

Regarding the chronology of events.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

At the beginning of September 2019, the Entity's private banking business unit
detected abnormal behavior in the client portfolio of two former employees.

Former A.A.A. and B.B.B. performed managerial functions advising
clients in relation to the management of their financial assets to conserve and
optimize your performance; and as such had access to sensitive personal information
and sensible of such clients.

Having noticed indications of a possible illegal disclosure to third parties of data
personal data, the Entity's Internal Audit area carried out an analysis that
culminated with the issuance on October 28, 2019 of Audit Report no.
BEXXX, of which they provide the part that they understand to be sufficient for the purposes of the report of the
personal data security breach. The Entity detected that both
former employees, before leaving as employees, on July 29, 2019,
had seized and disclosed to third parties outside the entity information
staff:

A.A.A. revealed to third parties, without authorization, confidential information of 187 clients, which
leaked through various emails. As confirmed in the report of
audit, on July 24, 2019, 6 emails were sent, and on July 29
of 2019, 19 emails were sent. The emails were
sent by A.A.A. to your home email address and another email address
external email from a third party. The data subject to dissemination included the DNI of
clients, information on positions, returns and equity variations
annual.

B.B.B., leaked confidential information to third parties of 32 clients between June 20
and on July 28, 2019, using 18 emails. Among the data subject to
diffusion included the DNI of clients, returns and changes in equity
annual, as well as tax documentation.

On October 4, 2019, the Entity requested through burofax to the
former employees, warning them of the illicit nature of their conduct, requesting that they
refrain from using and disclosing the stolen data.

On October 8, 2019, the Entity sent a burofax to
BANKINTER, S.A. (where former CaixaBank employees worked) of which
provide a copy, warning of the actions carried out by A.A.A. and B.B.B. with the final purpose
that the Entity adopt the necessary preventive measures in relation to the
personal data of CaixaBank customers.

On January 17, 2020, the AEPD was notified of the security breach.

On January 24, 2020, the Entity filed a complaint with the courts of
instruction of Madrid, given that such facts could constitute a crime at

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

affect the fundamental right to customer privacy, banking secrecy and
protection of trade secrets.

On February 14, 2020, after having filed the aforementioned complaint, it was
made additional notification to the AEPD, informing of the new measures adopted
in this regard by CaixaBank.

On February 4, in order to preserve the confidentiality of the data
obtained irregularly by former employees, an agreement was reached to
confidentiality and non-competition. By virtue of said agreements, Messrs. A.A.A. Y
B.B.B., undertook to keep the secret and maintain the confidentiality of the
information obtained irregularly and, in general, of all sensitive information
and confidential to which they had access during the term of their employment relationship as
employees of the Entity, undertaking not to reproduce, publish, distribute or
communicate it to third parties. Likewise, they were forced to immediately destroy all the
information, in all media, commitment expressed with the signing of the Certificate
of Destruction that accompanies each of the agreements.

On March 19, 2020, the AEPD was informed of the closure of the
security.

Measures to minimize the impact of the gap.

Sending burofax to former employees requesting the destruction of the information.

Sending of burofax to BANKINTER warning of the facts and requesting that they not
use of information.

Presentation of the complaint.

Adoption of the confidentiality agreement and certificate of destruction of the
information.

Regarding the affected data.

The number of those affected by the breach was a total of 219. The information that was seen
affected was: DNI, economic-financial information, position information,
returns and annual changes in equity.

The possible consequences for those affected are the disclosure to third parties of their
personal information. In the agreements and certificates of destruction of the
information, it is collected that all copies of emails that contained
personal data of the entity's clients were destroyed.

From the investigations carried out, it is not concluded that the personal data disclosed
have been used by third parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

The Entity has concluded that the communication to those affected was not appropriate, taking into account
note that appropriate measures have been taken to prevent the violation of
security has implication in the rights and freedoms of the affected clients.

Regarding the actions taken for the final resolution of the breach.

To resolve the gap, an agreement was reached with the former employees with the
objective of maintaining the confidentiality of the information of the affected clients.
The agreement includes obligations to destroy the information and
confidentiality. Compliance with the agreement was ratified by employees
by issuing and signing a certificate of destruction of information.

Regarding the security measures implemented before the breach.

They provide a copy of the Record of Treatment Activities of the Private Banking area and
Premier Banking, area to which the employees belonged.

The data processing activities that were compromised were carried out
carried out prior to the entry into force of the General Regulation for the Protection of
Data and have not undergone any modification for what they consider was not
neither a risk analysis nor an impact assessment is necessary.

Employees are subject to compliance with the Code of Ethics that in its section
seventh includes the obligation of confidentiality. They are also required to
compliance with internal rule number 137, which refers to the Code of Ethics, of the
which provide a copy. Specifically, point 2.1 of rule 137 establishes the
principles that should govern the activity of people subject to the code of ethics, among
them "The confidentiality of the information that is treated, which is constituted as a pillar
foundation on which the relationship of trust with the groups with which the
that employees interact.

The internal regulations of the Entity include the preservation of the privacy of the
customers as a fundamental pillar of the activity carried out by employees and is of
mandatory compliance and knowledge for all of them. Additionally, they are made
periodic training that must necessarily be passed by employees, because they are
linked to their variable remuneration.

At the moment in which an employee initiates a query through the Terminal
Financial, two notices appear. The first notice reminds the employee that in order to
consult clients not related to the office to which it belongs, there must be a
justifying cause. Specifically, the employee must select one of the
following three options (i) the client is present and has expressly requested the
query, (ii) the client is not present but the query is related to a
professional reason and (iii) the consultation is necessary for the provision of
Public Administrations, judges or Courts.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

Once the employee selects which of the three reasons enables him to consult the
customer data, another control appears indicating that the query requires
confirmation. It is recalled that the consultation will be monitored for its treatment as
possible breach of the General Data Protection Regulation and the employee
You must confirm that you want to continue with the query.

Regarding the measures implemented after the gap.

In response to the security breach that occurred, the process has been initiated to
carry out the corresponding impact assessment.

THIRD: On January 4, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agrees to initiate sanctioning proceedings against CAIXABANK, S.A.
for the alleged infringement of article 33 of the RGPD, typified in accordance with the provisions
in article 83.4 of the aforementioned RGPD, qualified as slight for the purposes of prescription in
Article 74.m) of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: On January 21, 2021, the respondent presents allegations to the
initial agreement, in which, in summary, it states that the notification of the breach of
security to the AEPD was carried out at the moment in which it was noticed that it was probable
that it constitutes a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
affected and requests the annulment of the initial agreement due to lack of concurrence of the
infringement provided for in article 33 of the RGPD.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: At the beginning of September 2019, the private banking business unit of
the Entity begins to detect anomalous behavior in the client portfolio of
certain former employees, verifying possible leaks of information by them.

SECOND: The Entity's Internal Audit area carries out an analysis that
culminates with the issuance, on October 28, 2019, of Audit Report no.
BEXXX, by which it is detected that two employees had obtained information
sensitive and confidential in an irregular manner.

THIRD: On January 17, 2020, CAIXABANK, S.A. notifies the AEPD of the
security breach.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

6/8

Article 89.1.d) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (LPACAP) states the following:

“Article 89. Proposed resolution in sanctioning procedures.

1. The investigating body will resolve the completion of the procedure, with a file of the
actions, without it being necessary to formulate the resolution proposal,
when in the procedure instruction it becomes clear that there is any
of the following circumstances:

a) The non-existence of the facts that could constitute the infraction.

b) When the facts are not accredited.

c) When the proven facts do not constitute, in a manifest way, an infringement
administrative.

d) When it does not exist or it has not been possible to identify the person or persons
liable or appear exempt from liability.

 e) When it is concluded, at any time, that the infraction has prescribed.”

Article 28.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (hereinafter LRJSP) states the following:

Article 28. Responsibility.

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

Article 70 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights, states the following:

Article 70. Responsible subjects.

"1. They are subject to the sanctioning regime established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679
and in this organic law:

a) Those responsible for the treatments.

b) Those in charge of the treatments.

c) The representatives of those responsible or in charge of the treatments do not
established in the territory of the European Union.

d) Certification entities.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

e) The accredited entities for the supervision of codes of conduct.

2. The sanctioning regime will not apply to the data protection delegate
established in this Title.”

In accordance with the foregoing and in view of the arguments presented, in the sense
that the notification of the security breach to the AEPD was made at the time
in which it was warned that it was likely to constitute a risk to
rights and freedoms of people, it must be accepted and proceed to
file of the sanctioning procedure, since the analysis of the entity for the
decision making related to the notification of security breaches to the
control authority, is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Guide for the management and
notification of security breaches based on the parameters that in the same
They indicated. In addition, it should be noted that the investigated entity had implemented
security measures that, in principle, were adequate to guarantee that the
personal data were not accessible by third parties and, as evidenced by the facts, in
as soon as the attack was detected and confirmed by the entity, they were adopted in a
immediately a series of additional security measures in order to minimize the
risks and extreme difficulties in accessing and extracting information.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE this sanctioning procedure.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CAIXABANK, S.A. with NIF
A08663619 and with address at c/ Pintor Sorolla nº2-4,46002, Valencia.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

938-131120

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

