1(23)

MedHelp AB
Marieviksgatan 19
117 43 Stockholm

Diary number:
DI-2019-3375
Your diary number:

Date:
2021-06-07

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation against
MedHelp AB
Content
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision................................................... ............................ 2
Background................................................. ................................................... ...................... 3
Justification of the decision................................................... ................................................... .... 3
Legal background................................................... ................................................ 3
National regulations on health and medical care................................................ ....... 3
Personal data responsibility and personal data assistant................................... 4
Basic principles and legal basis................................................ 4
Registered right to information................................................... ................ 5
Safety in connection with the treatment................................... ....... 5
MedHelp's personal data responsibility................................................ ......................... 6
The responsibility for processing personal data about care seekers such as MediCall
performed................................................. ................................................ ................... 6
MedHelp's tasks in the supervisory matter................................................. ........... 6
MediCall's information in the incident report................................................ ........ 7
IMY's assessment................................................... ........................................ 7
Responsibility for the personal data incident in the storage server Voice NAS................. 10
Information from MedHelp, Medicall and Voice in the incident reports... 10
Data from Voice in the supervisory case DI-2019-2488................................ 11
MedHelp's tasks in the supervisory matter................................................. ......... 11

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

IMY's assessment................................................... ...................................... 12
The obligation to provide information to care seekers.......................................... 15
IMY's assessment................................................... ...................................... 15
Responsibility for backup................................................... ......................... 17
IMY's assessment................................................... ...................................... 17
Choice of intervention................................................... ................................................... ......... 18

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

2(23)

Possible intervention measures................................................... ................................ 18
Penalty fee to be imposed................................................. ................................ 18
Determining the amount of the penalty fee................................................. ......... 19
General regulations................................................... ......................... 19
Penalty fee for each violation................................................ 20
Orders................................................... ................................................ 22
How to appeal............................................... ................................................ ..... 23

The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
As a care provider responsible for personal data according to ch. 2 Section 6 of the Patient Data Act
(2008:355), PDL, MedHelp AB (MedHelp) has processed personal data about
care seekers in violation of the data protection regulation1 in the following way.
a)

Medhelp has meanwhile from 25 May 2018 to 31 August 2019 by
disclose personal data to the Thai company MediCall and let
MediCall collect personal data processed personal data in violation of
articles 5.1 a, 6 and 9.1 of the data protection regulation.

b)

Medhelp has from an unknown date until February 18, 2019 in the storage server
Voice NAS exposed personal data in audio files with recorded phone calls
to 11772 against the Internet without protection against unauthorized disclosure by or unauthorized
access to the personal data. MedHelp has thereby contravened the articles
5.1 f and 32.1 of the data protection regulation failed to take appropriate technical
and organizational measures to ensure an appropriate level of security for
the data.

c)

Medhelp has at the time of the inspection on March 20, 2019, in addition to one
voicemail message that the call is being recorded in patient safety and
quality purpose, not informing care seekers about the company's
personal data processing in connection with the collection of personal data at
telephone call to 1177. MedHelp has thereby processed personal data in
violation of articles 5.1 a and 13 of the data protection regulation.

d)

At the time of the inspection on March 20, 2019, Medhelp has not
backed up audio files of recorded calls to 1177 answered by
MedHelp's nurses within MedHelp's telephony platform. MedHelp has
thereby processed personal data in violation of articles 5.1 f and 32.1 i
data protection regulation.

The Privacy Protection Authority (IMY) decides with the support of articles 58.2 and 83 i
the data protection regulation that MedHelp must pay an administrative sanction fee of
SEK 12,000,000 (twelve million) for the violations as follows. 3,000,000 (three
REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
2 On the website 1177.se it is stated "Call telephone number 1177 for healthcare advice around the clock.".
1

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

3(23)

million) kroner refers to point a), 8,000,000 (eight million) kroner refers to point b),
SEK 500,000 (five hundred thousand) refers to point c) and SEK 500,000 (five hundred thousand)
kroner refers to point d).
According to Article 58.2 d of the data protection regulation, IMY instructs MedHelp to immediately and
no later than two months after the decision became legally binding, take the following measures.
1) Inform care seekers who call 1177 about MedHelp's treatment of
personal data according to article 13 of the data protection regulation and ch. 8 § 6 PDL.
2) Regarding audio files with recorded calls to 1177, which are answered by MedHelps
nurses within MedHelp's telephony platform, carry out backups with
a set periodicity and store the backups in a secure manner well separated from
the original data according to ch. 3 § 12 HSLF-FS 2016:40 and decide on how long
the backup copies should be saved and how often readback tests of the copies should be done
according to ch. 3 Section 13 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

Background
On February 18, 2019, Computer Sweden published an article with the title "2.7
million recorded calls to 1177 Vårdguiden completely unprotected on the internet". In the article
is stated, among other things, that "On an open web server, completely without password protection or
other security, we have found 2.7 million recorded calls to the advice number 1177.”
IMY initiated supervision of MedHelp and carried out an inspection at MedHelp on 20
March 2019 to check how MedHelp processed personal data within the framework of
1177.
IMY also initiated supervision of Voice Integrate Nordic AB (Voice) and Inera AB. The
it emerged that three regions used MedHelp as a care provider when seeking care
call 1177 for healthcare advice and partly Inera AB to connect the calls to
MedHelp. IMY therefore initiated supervision of the Regional Health Care Board
Stockholm, the Regional Board of the Region Sörmland and the Regional Board of the Region Värmland.

Justification of the decision
Legal background
National regulations on health care
The tasks of the health and medical services are regulated in, among other things, the Health and Medical Services Act
(2017:30), HSL.
Measures to medically prevent, investigate and treat diseases and injuries
is defined as health care, ch. 2 § 1 HSL. Principal refers to that region
or the municipality which, according to the law, is responsible for offering healthcare to
the population of the region or municipality. Within a principal's geographic area may
one or more care providers conduct business, ch. 2 § 2 HSL. By care providers is meant
government authority, region, municipality, other legal person or individual trader
who conduct health and medical care activities, ch. 2 § 3 HSL. Regions and
municipalities may, while maintaining ownership, enter into an agreement with someone else to
perform the tasks for which the county council or the municipality is responsible, ch. 15 § 1 HSL.
The person who has a constitutionally regulated responsibility for providing care is referred to as the principal.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

4(23)

The responsibility does not mean an obligation to run the business yourself, but the operation can
lie on someone else who is then referred to as a caregiver (prop. 1981/82:97 p. 33 f.). The
the public responsibility as principal does not imply control over the care provider
day-to-day activities and that does not relieve the caregiver of the responsibility that comes with it either
the role of caregiver (prop. 2016/17:43 p. 86).
The person who belongs or has belonged to the health care staff within the individual
the health care service receives according to ch. 6. Sections 12–15 of the Patient Safety Act (2010:659),
(PSL) not to disclose without authorization what he or she has learned about a person in the course of their activities
individual's state of health or other personal circumstances. For the public
activities apply to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act (2009:400) OSL.
Personal data responsibility and personal data assistant
According to Article 4.7 of the Data Protection Ordinance, personal data controller means a
natural or legal person, public authority, institution or other body which
alone or together with others determines the ends and the means for
the processing of personal data. About the purposes and means of the processing
determined by Union law or the national law of the Member States, it can
personal data controller or the special criteria for how he is to be appointed
provided for in Union law or in the national law of the Member States.
According to ch. 2 § 6 PDL is a healthcare provider responsible for personal data for the processing of
personal data that the care provider performs in connection with individualized care in his
activities, for example regarding the obligation to keep patient records.
According to Article 24 of the Data Protection Regulation, the person in charge of personal data must
consideration of the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing, as well as
the risks, implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure
- and be able to demonstrate - that the processing is carried out in accordance with the data protection regulation.
According to Article 4.8 of the data protection regulation, personal data assistant means a physical person
or legal person, public authority, institution or other body that processes
personal data on behalf of the data controller. The personal data assistant may
according to Article 29 of the Data Protection Regulation only process personal data on it
instructions of the personal data controller.
Basic principles and legal basis
According to Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation, personal data must be processed in one
legal, correct and transparent manner in relation to the data subject (principle of legality,
correctness and transparency). According to Article 5.1 f, personal data must be processed in one way
which ensures appropriate security for the personal data, including protection against
unauthorized or unauthorized processing and against loss, destruction or damage by
accident, using appropriate technical or organizational measures
(principle of privacy and confidentiality). Personal data controllers must according to article
5.2 be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that the principles in Article 5.1 are complied with (the principle of
liability).
In order for the processing of personal data to be legal, it must be supported by someone
of the legal grounds specified in Article 6.1 of the Data Protection Regulation. At
treatment for health care purposes, it is primarily Article 6.1 c (legal
obligation) or 6.1.e (public interest or exercise of authority) which may be
applicable. According to Article 6.3, the basis for the processing stated in Article 6.1 c
and e determined in accordance with Union law or the national law of a Member State which

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

5(23)

the personal data controller is covered by. This means that if a caregiver's
processing of personal data is necessary to fulfill a legal obligation or
perform a task of public interest as required for the processing to be legal that
the legal obligation or task of public interest is governed by national law
(or in Union law).
For activities according to, among other things, HSL, there is a supplement
data protection provisions mainly in the PDL and in HSLF-FS 2016:40, which among other things
contains rules on information security and on physical protection of information systems.
According to ch. 1 § 2 PDL, information management within health care must be
organized so that it caters for patient safety and good quality and promotes
cost effectiveness. Personal data must be designed and otherwise processed so that
the privacy of patients and other data subjects is respected. Documented
personal data must be handled and stored so that unauthorized persons do not gain access to them.
Information about health constitutes so-called sensitive personal data. It is forbidden to
process such personal data in accordance with Article 9.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, unless
the processing is not covered by any of the exceptions in Article 9.2.
Registered right to information
Obligation of personal data controller to independently provide registered
information on the processing of personal data can be found in articles 13 and 14 i
data protection regulation. Relatively comprehensive information is required
provided to the registered. In addition to what appears from articles 13 and 14, it shall
care providers who are responsible for personal data according to ch. 2 § 6 PDL leave further
information according to ch. 8 Section 6 PDL to the registered person. The information according to ch. 8 Section 6
PDL must include, among other things, what applies in terms of search terms, direct access and
disclosure of data on medium for automated processing.
Safety in connection with the treatment
According to article 32.1 of the data protection regulation, both the personal data controller must
and the personal data assistant take appropriate technical and organizational measures to
ensure an appropriate level of security to protect the data processed. At
the assessment of which technical and organizational measures are appropriate must
personal data controller and personal data assistant take into account the latest developments,
the implementation costs and the nature, extent, context and
purposes and the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. According to Article 32.1
include appropriate safeguards, where appropriate, a) pseudonymisation and
encryption of personal data, b) the ability to continuously ensure confidentiality,
integrity, availability and resilience of the treatment systems and services,
c) the ability to restore availability and access to personal data in a reasonable time
in the event of a physical or technical incident, and d) a procedure to regularly test,
investigate and evaluate the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures
which must ensure the safety of the treatment.
According to article 32.2 of the data protection regulation, when assessing the appropriate
security level special consideration is given to the risks that the treatment entails, in particular
for accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration or for unauthorized disclosure of
or unauthorized access to the personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise
treated.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

6(23)

The National Board of Health and Welfare has in HSLF-FS 2016:40 with the support of Section 3 of the patient data regulation
(2008:360) and after consultation with the IMY announced the regulations needed for
the enforcement of the PDL in terms of security measures in whole or in part
automated processing of personal data. A care provider responsible for personal data
shall according to ch. 3 § 12 HSLF-FS 2016:40 ensure that personal data that
processed in information systems are backed up with a set periodicity and
that the backup copies are stored securely, well separated from the original data.
The regulation specifies in ch. 3. § 12 thus a safety measure that must be taken by
personal data controller. The care provider must according to ch. 3 Section 13 decide how long
the backup copies should be saved and how often readback tests of the copies should be done.

MedHelp's personal data responsibility
By MedHelp's notification of a personal data incident on 20 February 2019 (IMY's
case PUI-2019-689) it appears that MedHelp claims to be responsible for personal data
as regards the processing of sensitive personal data in the form of audio files that have
exposed to the Internet without any protection mechanisms.
In this supervisory matter, MedHelp states that the company is a healthcare provider as defined in 1
Cape. § 3 PDL and thus personal data controller according to ch. 2 § 6 the same law for them
personal data that the company processes when individuals call 1177. The company states
further that, as a supplement to the journal entries, the conversations are saved by
recorded and stored. These recordings are part of the care documentation. MedHelp
considers itself the personal data controller for the files stored on the server at Voice for
MediCall's bill. When the calls could no longer be stored with Voice, they were transferred to
MedHelp's servers.
IMY shares MedHelp's view that MedHelp is the healthcare provider responsible for personal data
according to ch. 2 6 PDL and that MedHelp provides the individualized care that takes place in connection
with individuals calling 1177 being allowed to process personal data for purposes relating to
care documentation, for example by recording calls to 1177.

The responsibility for processing personal data about care seekers
as performed by MediCall
MedHelp's data in the supervisory matter
Regarding MediCall's role in health care advice via telephone, MedHelp is among them
otherwise stated the following.
MedHelp has engaged MediCall as a subcontractor for healthcare advice via telephone
when individuals call 1177. MediCall is a Thai company with operations in Thailand.
MedHelp receives approximately 3 million calls per year within the framework of 1177. 20 percent of
the traffic goes to MediCall and the rest to MedHelp. All nurses speak Swedish
nursing identification and meets the requirements of the agreements with the regions.
The nurses who work for MediCall are employed by MediCall. Nurses
with both MedHelp and MediCall for notes in MedHelp's record system Princess
and the phone calls to 1177 are recorded.
MedHelp is the responsible healthcare provider. Carer and patient are in Sweden when
care is provided. MediCall is required to keep records. To record the calls is used
balance of interests as a legal basis.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

7(23)

On 15 October 2012, MedHelp entered into an agreement with MediCall regarding
healthcare advice and in connection with that a personal data assistant agreement was concluded.
On October 1, 2016, the parties entered into an additional agreement and a new agreement named "Agreement
regarding telephone health care advisory services'. An additional agreement to this agreement
was drawn up and signed on 1–2 March 2019. Annex 4 to the supplementary agreement contains
also a new data processor agreement replacing the previous one
the personal data processor agreement from 2012. MedHelp has stated that the agreement and
The personal data assistant agreement ends on 31 August 2019, whereby MediCalls also ends
processing of personal data related to 1177 ceases.
MediCall's information in the incident report
After IMY asked questions to MediCall, MediCall supplemented its on 19 June 2019
notification of the personal data incident and thereby stated, among other things, the following.
MediCall is a Thai company, which provides counseling by telephone and others
communication channels in accordance with MedHelp's standards and routines on behalf of
MedHelp. The business is conducted only in Thailand. The personal data will be added
nurse on duty via MedHelp's record system on a screen. The nurse
answers and sees information based on what the caller keyed in. After the call
or during the conversation, a journal is kept. When the call is finished, the journal is closed
and cannot be opened by the nurse again. The call is stored in MedHelp's system directly.
MediCall thus sees the medical record in MedHelp's system, works in the system, and documents
in MedHelp's system, no information is saved by MediCall. The IT system is called Collab.
When the incident occurred, the calls came in through Biz, which handles incoming and
outgoing call. The calls were recorded by Biz and stored by Voice on behalf of
MedHelp. In its 2012-09-02 agreement with MedHelp, MediCall has a clause that prescribes
that processing of personal data must take place in accordance with applicable law. New
personal data assistant agreement including agreement on confidentiality was signed on March 1, 2019.
MediCall has listed Voice as a personal data processor but is a little unsure about this
as MediCall sees them as a supplier directly to MedHelp. Nothing
personal data assistant agreement between MediCall and Voice has been signed.
On 29 August 2019, MediCall on its own initiative submitted a document to IMY which
supplement to their notification of a personal data incident. At the top of the document, which is
dated 30 October 2012, the Health and Medical Administration, Stockholms
county council, diary number HSN 0805-0652 and the subject" Regarding the request for
approval of subcontractor”. Under the heading "Describe how you ensure that
the agreement is fulfilled with the help of the subcontractor regarding the points" appears among
another thing is that MedHelp does this to improve staffing during on-call hours, which will give
a higher availability of health care advice by phone to Vårdguiden (point 3). IN
point 5 states that all services performed by MediCall will follow MedHelps
quality management system.
IMY's assessment
Swedish healthcare has extensive regulation. In addition to the provisions of
data protection regulation, HSL is of central importance. The law contains provisions
about how Swedish health care operations should be organized and run.
Measures to medically prevent, investigate and treat diseases and injuries
is defined as health care, ch. 2 § 1 HSL. Principal refers to that region
or the municipality which, according to the law, is responsible for offering healthcare to
the population of the region or municipality. Within a principal's geographic area may
one or more care providers conduct business, ch. 2 § 2 HSL. By care providers is meant

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

8(23)

government authority, region, municipality, other legal person or individual trader
who conduct health and medical care activities, ch. 2 § 3 HSL.
Regions and municipalities may enter into an agreement with someone while retaining ownership
other about performing the tasks for which the county council or the municipality is responsible, ch. 15
§ 1 HSL. The person who has a constitutionally regulated responsibility for the provision of care is designated
principal. The responsibility does not mean an obligation to run the business yourself, but
the operation can be entrusted to someone else who is then designated as a care provider (prop. 1981/82:97 s.
33 f.). The public responsibility as a principal does not imply control over it
the day-to-day activities of the care provider and that does not relieve the care provider of the responsibility that
comes with the role of caregiver (prop. 2016/17:43 p. 86).
MedHelp is the healthcare provider responsible for personal data for the processing of personal data
which takes place in connection with the healthcare consultancy that MedHelp has been commissioned by
the regions to perform. This means that MedHelp according to article 5.2 i
the data protection regulation must be able to show that the personal data is processed in such a way
that the principles in Article 5.1 are complied with.
In order for the processing of personal data to be legal, it must be supported by someone
of the legal grounds specified in Article 6.1 of the Data Protection Regulation. At
treatment for health care purposes, it is primarily Article 6.1 c (legal
obligation) or 6.1.e (public interest or exercise of authority) which may be
applicable. According to Article 6.3, the basis for the processing stated in Article 6.1 c
and e determined in accordance with Union law or the national law of a Member State which
the personal data controller is covered by. This means that if a caregiver's
processing of personal data is necessary to fulfill a legal obligation or
perform a task of public interest as required for the processing to be legal that
the legal obligation or task of public interest is governed by national law
(or in Union law).
In healthcare, the data protection regulation is supplemented by PDL, which
contains provisions, among other things, on who is responsible for personal data, if
the obligation to keep patient records and about permitted purposes for treatment of
personal data. According to ch. 1 Section 3 PDL includes activities within the scope of PDL's application
as referred to in, among other things, the Health and Medical Services Act (2017:30), HSL. The determination in 2
Cape. § 6 PDL that the care provider is responsible for personal data is a national specification
of article 4.7 of the data protection regulation.
A healthcare provider needs to process information about health and sometimes also other special ones
categories of personal data according to article 9.1 of the data protection regulation, so-called sensitive
personal data. As a starting point, it is forbidden to treat sensitive people
personal data according to the same article. The exceptions that exist from the ban can be seen from
article 9.2. For healthcare there is an exception in article 9.2.h which is applicable
provided that there is a statutory duty of confidentiality according to Article 9.3.
For Swedish healthcare, it is mainly the regulation in HSL and PDL as well as
of the duty of confidentiality in OSL and in ch. 6 §§ 12-15 PSL which states the legal support for
that a processing of personal data is legal in the manner referred to in Article 6.1 e, 6.2
and 6.3 as well as 9.2 h and 9.3 of the data protection regulation (prop. 2017/18:105 pp. 58 and 94
as well as prop. 2017/18:171 p. 105).
Through both MedHelp's and MediCall's information, it has emerged that both
MedHelp and MediCall have taken measures that fall under the concept of health and

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

9(23)

healthcare as defined in ch. 2 § 1 HSL as far as 1177 is concerned through its measures for
to medically prevent, investigate and treat diseases and injuries. The relationship is
regulated by agreement and personal data processing agreement. MediCall has to be able to perform
care processed personal data. This has happened through MediCall taking part
personal data regarding care seekers on a computer screen via MedHelp's record system
and by answering when dialing 1177. During the call, MediCall has collected
personal data by entering care documentation into MedHelp's record system which
also entailed the processing of personal data.
However, MediCall is a Thai company that operates in Thailand. The
means the Swedish regulations in the field of health care are not
applicable, even if the nurses who work at MediCall speak Swedish
identification. MediCall has thus not been imposed national duties and responsibilities through
the regulations in HSL and are not healthcare providers under Swedish law. MediCall is covered
therefore also not of the scope of application of PDL according to ch. 1. § 3 PDL, where stated
that PDL is applied when healthcare providers process personal data in health and
healthcare. This further means that MediCall cannot be obliged to keep records according to 3
Cape. PDL, as stated by MedHelp.
The duty of confidentiality for private healthcare providers is regulated in chapter 6. §§ 12–15 PSL. It is stated, as
main rule, that anyone who belongs or has belonged to health care personnel within it
individual health and medical care may not reveal what he or she in his or her
business has found out about an individual's health condition or other personal information
conditions. From ch. 1 § 2 PSL states that health care is referred to in the PSL
operations covered by HSL or other national regulations on health and
the healthcare area, such as the Dental Care Act, the Insurance Medical Act
investigations etc. The operations of MediCall are not covered by the national ones
the provisions either in HSL or in any of the other stated constitutions which
means that neither ch. 6 PSL is applicable. MediCall therefore lacks one according to Swedish
properly regulated confidentiality.
The provisions in ch. 6 PDL on coherent record keeping and in ch. 25 11 § 3
OSL means that two or more Swedish healthcare providers can start a voluntary collaboration in
care purpose by following the regulations in ch. 6. PDL (cf. prop. 2007/08:126 p. 132 f
that the individual health and medical care can seek guidance for assessments of
the duty of confidentiality in confidentiality regulations). If MediCall had been a Swedish healthcare provider –
i.e. covered by HSL, PSL and PDL - MedHelp and MediCall could have started one
voluntary cooperation for the purpose of care by following the regulations in ch. 6. PDL about
coherent record keeping.
MedHelp is the healthcare provider and the legal support for the treatment of those in question here
personal data is a legal obligation or public interest according to Article 6.1 c or e i
the data protection regulation, which is established in Swedish law in statutes such as PDL and
HSL in accordance with Article 6.3 of the Data Protection Regulation. Legal support to get
process sensitive personal data despite the prohibition in Article 9.1 can be found in Article 9.2 h and
9.3. Balance of interests according to Article 6.1 f of the data protection regulation is in this
context not an applicable legal basis.
By hiring MediCall as a subcontractor for healthcare advice, MedHelp has
via telephone when individuals call 1177 provided health and medical care and have thereby let
MediCall process personal data without legal support in Swedish law and without that
there is a statutory duty of confidentiality in the manner required by Article 9.3 i
data protection regulation.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

10(23)

On 15 October 2012, MedHelp entered into an agreement with MediCall regarding
"Health care advice" and in connection with that a personal data assistant agreement was concluded.
On October 1, 2016, the parties entered into an additional agreement and a new agreement named "Agreement
regarding telephone health care advisory services'. An additional agreement to this agreement
was drawn up and signed on 1–2 March 2019. Annex 4 to the supplementary agreement contains
also a new data processor agreement replacing the previous one
the personal data processor agreement from 2012.
The fact that the Swedish rules regarding health care do not apply to one
Thai company cannot be replaced by a data processor agreement or any
other contractual construction. By personal data assistant is meant a physical or legal person
person, public authority, institution or other body that processes
personal data on behalf of the personal data controller, Article 4.8 i
data protection regulation. MediCall provides care and cannot constitute one
personal data assistant in that context, as a care provider must have one
independent support for processing personal data, which MediCall lacks.
IMY states that MedHelp, as a care provider responsible for personal data according to ch. 2 Section 6
PDL, at least from 25 May 2018 to 31 August 2019 in connection with
care seekers call 1177 for health care advice provided personal data partly on
computer screen, partly via telephone to MediCall and allowed MediCall to collect personal data for
MedHelp's care documentation despite the fact that MediCall is not covered by HSL and therefore not
nor covered by the provisions of PSL and PDL. These treatments have been lacking
legal support in Swedish law in the manner required under Article 6.3 and carried out without it
there is a statutory duty of confidentiality in the manner required by Article 9.3 i
data protection regulation. The treatments have thus lacked a legal basis according to article
6 and carried out in violation of the prohibition to process sensitive personal data in Article 9.1 i
data protection regulation. As a result, the processing has also taken place in violation of the principle
on legality in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation.

Responsibility for the personal data incident in the storage server Voice
NAS
Data from MedHelp, Medicall and Voice in the incident reports
In MedHelp's notification of a personal data incident, the incident is described as sensitive
personal data had been exposed to the internet without any protection mechanisms and that
an unknown number of audio files have been available. The incident concerns patients and employees of it
the personal data controller's subcontractor. Personal data covered by
the incident is stated to be health, sex life, social security number, date of birth, identifying
information, for example first and last name and contact information. Furthermore, it appears that
MedHelp was made aware of the personal data incident by Inera AB's vice president.
On 21 February 2019, IMY received MediCall's notification of a personal data incident
(IMY case PUI-2019-698). The incident is described as “Breach of subcontractor
(Voice Integrate Nordic ab) server.” The incident concerns patients. Personal data such as
covered by the incident is stated to be health, social security number and identification
information, such as first and last name. After IMY asked questions to MediCall
MediCall stated on 19 June 2019, among other things, that the calls were stored with Voice at
commissioned by MedHelp.
On 21 February 2019, IMY received Voice's notification of a personal data incident (IMY's
case PUI-2019-705). The incident is described as a security hole in a storage server
was discovered by Computer Sweden who published this information in an article.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

11(23)

The incident affects patients and business users to a lesser extent. Personal data
covered by the incident are stated to be health, social security number, identification
information such as first and last name and contact information.
Data from Voice in regulatory case DI-2019-2488
Among other things, Voice has stated the following.
Voice shut down the storage server on February 18, 2019 and changed the server
was no longer reachable via the Internet by ip-tables (a firewall tool to
allow or block network access) was introduced directly into the server. After
incident was brought to attention, MedHelp wanted IT forensics to investigate
the Voice NAS storage server. MedHelp was therefore given permission to enter Voice NAS
on February 20, 2019. MedHelp should also have started to transfer the content of the Voice NAS to
MedHelp's own servers. If the data was moved by copying only
the files or by the files being deleted in connection with the copying was unknown to Voice.
Voice has stated on IMY's question on March 14, 2019, if there were any call files
left on Voice NAS, that the calls had been deleted at the request of MedHelp on March 7
2019.
Voice and MedHelp have entered into a "Delivery agreement - services" signed on 1
September 2012. According to the agreement, Voice and MedHelp have had a close relationship for many years
cooperation in technology, security and possible improvements in both technology and services
and production. The agreement describes services such as "Recording (within system) CC-50,
“Call recording”, “Retrieval search functions” and “Filtering or deletion
of recordings according to the customer's wishes". The delivery agreement applies from 2012-09-01
Empty. 2019-06-30.
As of February 18, 2019, there were 2.7 million files on the Voice NAS storage server, that
these files do not correspond to 2.7 million calls, but that one call corresponds to i
average about three to four files and that a call can be up to ten files.
A call flow occurs when a person calls 1177. The recorded calls are
calls from people who have called 1177 healthcare information and are then connected
to MedHelp and MediCall.
Voice assignment according to the agreement with MedHelp and MediCall has been to deliver calls via
their switches and provide support for functions and software covered by the agreement.
Voice has developed the Biz software. It is true that data files with recorded calls
been transferred from MedHelp to Voice NAS, a network attached storage device.
It was caused by Medhelp's own server crashing. Medhelp
server problems started as early as 2013 and then escalated and led to an emergency
situation in the fall of 2015. Voice management did not participate in this decision or implement it, but
became aware that the files were there on February 18, 2019, when the incident occurred
was noticed in the media.
No recordings would have been stored with Voice. A month before
the data protection regulation was to come into effect, MedHelp suddenly sent over one
personal data processing agreement. Nothing like this had previously existed between the parties.
The agreement was presented as a standard agreement that all parties to the agreement had to enter into
that the data protection regulation entered into force.
MedHelp's data in the supervisory matter
MedHelp has stated, among other things, the following in this supervisory matter.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

12(23)

MedHelp knew that MediCall stored calls with Voice, but MedHelp did not
that the server was made accessible without protection mechanisms from the Internet. Medicall's nurses
was connected to Medhelp's network from 23 February 2019, instead of to the telephony solution
Biz at Voice. This meant that the calls that were made were redirected to Medhelps
servers and infrastructure, including to Collab which is a telephony solution that
Medhelp themselves operate.
MedHelp receives approximately 3 million calls per year within the framework of 1177. Eighty percent of
these are handled by MedHelp and twenty percent are handled by Medicall, as before
used the IT solution Biz, which includes audio file storage. Voice had built one
web application that allows you to listen to the audio files. MedHelp has used
the call tracking application. To be able to take part in recordings have
MedHelp's staff had to be logged into MedHelp's internal environment and beyond
it also authenticates itself in the web application. For reasons unknown to MedHelp came
the stored content then posted online. As the calls could not be stored with Voice
longer they were transferred to MedHelp's servers. MedHelp's storage devices never have
crashed. MedHelp did not have any server problems that led to an emergency situation
autumn 2015. There has never been any transfer of data files with recorded
patient calls from MedHelp to Voice. MedHelp has at all times stored recordings of
patient calls exclusively under own authority on own storage devices. Voice has never stored
recordings on behalf of MedHelp. However, Voice has stored recordings of
patient calls on behalf of MedHelp's subcontractor MediCall.
An agreement named "Personal Data Processor Agreement" was signed by MedHelp on 7
May 2018 and by Voice on May 10, 2018. Voice is named as the supplier in the agreement,
where, among other things, the following appears. MedHelp has entered into agreements with customers and partners
for example as regards an agreement that MedHelp shall provide healthcare advice to
customers and partners. The agreement regulates the MedHelp Group's transfer of
personal data to the supplier due to service contracts and other agreements entered into
between MedHelp and the supplier. From point 11 it appears that MedHelp has the right to
reasonable notice and in an appropriate manner prepare himself and/or his representative's opportunity
to inspect that the supplier's processing of personal data takes place in
compliance with service agreements and that the supplier has taken appropriate measures
security measures to protect the personal data processed on behalf of
The MedHelp Group. Furthermore, it appears, among other things, that the party must continuously under
during the contract period, carry out a check that the information security work is in accordance
with the laws and regulations in force at any given time, which means, among other things, that a party must
carry out internal audits, safeguards and risk analyses.
IMY's assessment
The audio files in the Voice NAS storage server at Voice contained recorded calls to 1177
as nurses at MediCall answered. As stated above, MedHelp i
attribute of care provider personal data controller for this personal data.
The responsibility for personal data includes a responsibility for the personal data being processed in
in accordance with applicable data protection regulations. This is evident, among other things, from the
the basic principles of Article 5 and of Article 24. It includes according to Article 5.2
also that you must be able to show that you do it.
That MedHelp, by agreement, allowed MediCall and Voice to process the personal data
does not affect the extent of MedHelp's liability. It is the personal data controller
which has the ultimate responsibility for the correct and legal treatment of
the personal data. MedHelp is also responsible for security in connection with
the treatment.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

13(23)

As stated earlier, it is the issue of personal data that has been documented in
connection with health care advice when care seekers call 1177 in the regions
Stockholm, Sörmland and Värmland. That is the question of a business like MedHelp
is a care provider and thus responsible for personal data. MedHelp must therefore i
property of personal data controller take appropriate technical and organizational
measures to ensure a level of security that is appropriate in relation to the risk. At
the assessment of the appropriate security level must take special account of the risks that
the processing entails, in particular from accidental or illegal destruction, loss or
change or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to the personal data that
transferred, stored or otherwise processed, Article 32.1 and 2 i
data protection regulation. Ensuring adequate security means that one must
adapt the security level to the risks of the current treatment.
Medicall's treatment concerned 20 percent of the approximately 3 million phone calls that
MedHelp received annually via 1177, a total of approx. 600,000 calls per year. Voice states in
regulatory case DI-2019-2488 that as of February 18, 2019, there were 2.7 million files
on the storage server Voice NAS, that these files do not correspond to 2.7 million calls, but
that a call corresponds on average to around three to four files and that a call can constitute
up to ten files. IMY estimates based on the average the number of calls stored in the Voice NAS
to between 650,000 and 900,000. In other words, it is a question of a very large number
Call.
Regarding the nature of the conversations, it can be stated that they relate to healthcare advice and that
the health information is central. Health information constitutes sensitive personal data according to
Article 9 of the Data Protection Ordinance and places high demands on the security of the data.
Processing of personal data in healthcare generally means a lot
risk to the freedoms and rights of the data subjects.
Care must be based in particular on respect for the patient's self-determination and integrity,
5 ch. 1 § 3 HSL. Personal data must be designed and otherwise processed so that
the privacy of patients and other data subjects is respected and must be documented
personal data is handled and stored so that unauthorized persons do not gain access to it, which
appears from articles 5.1 f and 32 of the data protection regulation and from ch. 1 § 2 second
and third paragraphs PDL. It is also specifically regulated in HSLF-FS 2016:40 how
personal data about patients must be protected.
Everyone who is ill has the right to access care. Persons seeking care who call
1177 may be considered to have a high expectation that unauthorized persons should not be able to access information
which is conveyed in a conversation because patients have a right to a confidential and
trusting contact with care. For private healthcare providers, the duty of confidentiality is regulated in 6
Cape. §§ 12–15 PSL, which the healthcare staff of a private healthcare provider must
follow.
According to Article 32.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, the personal data controller must take appropriate measures
technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security that is
suitable in relation to the risk to the protection of the data being processed. According to article
32.2 special consideration must be given to the risks when assessing the appropriate security level
which the processing entails, in particular from accidental or illegal destruction, loss
or alteration or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to the personal data
that is transferred, stored or otherwise processed.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

14(23)

The ability to continuously ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and
resilience of treatment systems and services is according to Article 32.1 b i
the data protection regulation a measure that may be appropriate when it comes to ensuring
a level of security that is appropriate in relation to the risk. Another action that can
be appropriate in ensuring a level of safety that is appropriate in relation
to the risk is, according to Article 32.1 d of the data protection regulation, a procedure to
regularly test, investigate and evaluate the effectiveness of the technical and
organizational measures to ensure the safety of the treatment.
In light of the sensitive nature of the personal data, that the personal data has been collected
into a confidential context relating to healthcare advice, the extent of the treatment
and the high risks of the treatment are posed according to IMY's opinion in summary
high requirements to take far-reaching security measures according to Article 32.1 i
data protection regulation. MedHelp's responsibility also includes the storage of
personal data about care requests that took place in Voice NAS.
IMY notes that a large number of calls to 1177 stored in Voice NAS have been exposed
against the internet for an unknown amount of time without protection until February 18, 2019 when Voice took over
measures to prevent exposure to the Internet. An exposure of personal data
against the Internet without protection meant that personal data was accessible to anyone who had
an internet connection. This meant a high risk of unauthorized disclosure by or unauthorized
access to the personal data.
MedHelp has stated that MedHelp was not aware of the personal data in the Voice NAS
became reachable without protection mechanisms, that the stored content came out online
reason unknown to MedHelp and that MedHelp became aware of
the personal data incident of Inera AB's vice president. IMY states that MedHelp has acted
only after the incident by investigating the Voice NAS, transfer the care documentation
to its own servers and instruct Voice to delete the calls, which Voice carried out
on March 7, 2019.
Against this background, IMY states that MedHelp has lacked sufficient ability to
continuously ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of
the treatment systems and services. According to IMY, MedHelp also lacked one
effective procedure for regularly testing, investigating and evaluating
the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to ensure
the safety of the treatment.
IMY notes that it is a question of a lot of personal data, both of which are sensitive
and subject to confidentiality, and that they were exposed to the internet without protection which
meant they were accessible to anyone with an internet connection. MedHelp has
thus not protecting the personal data against unauthorized handling or unauthorized access
and thus did not observe his obligation as a personal data controller to take appropriate measures
technical and organizational measures that ensure a level of security that is appropriate
in relation to the risk in accordance with Article 32.1 of the Data Protection Regulation.
According to the basic security principle in Article 5.1 f of the data protection regulation
personal data must be processed in a way that ensures appropriate security for
the personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized processing and against
loss, destruction or accidental damage, using appropriate
technical or organizational measures. That the personal data has been exposed to
internet without protection against unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized access means according to IMY that

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

15(23)

the lack of security has been of such a serious nature that it also constitutes a violation
of article 5.1 f of the data protection regulation.

The obligation to provide information to care seekers
On 25 June 2019, IMY received a transcript from www.1177.se about 1177
healthcare advice by phone. The website states that behind 1177 Vårdguiden
the Swedish healthcare through all regions is in collaboration. 1177 is a national
phone number for healthcare advice that you can call 24 hours a day. Each region
runs its own healthcare consultancy business either under its own auspices or through
procured subcontractor. The calls that are counseling calls are recorded. The question
"Who is responsible for the personal data being handled correctly?" are answered as follows.
"It is your healthcare provider who is responsible for ensuring that the personal data is handled correctly
and legal way. When care is provided by a region, there are one or more boards in the region
who are ultimately responsible. In private care, it is the company or it
businesses that carry out the care that are responsible.”
MedHelp stated, among other things, the following during the inspection on March 20, 2019. MedHelp
receives approximately 3 million calls per year within the framework of 1177. What information about
processing of personal data that must be provided and by whom is regulated in the agreement with the Health and Medical Services Administration, HSF (Region Stockholm, IMY's note), which is responsible for
to inform those who call the health care information 1177. A few weeks ago
no information was provided, but now some information is provided. MedHelp has not
available which information is given in the voice response. MedHelp cannot in practical terms
leave information in the voice response because it is HSF that controls it. MedHelp represents
HSF and the brand 1177, so MedHelp must not tell a person that this has
came to MedHelp. MedHelp provides information on its website that MedHelp
processes personal data. On April 25, 2019, MedHelp states that for Region
Stockholm, the caller is informed that the call will be recorded in
patient safety and quality purposes, that the agreement with Region Stockholm constitutes one
publicly procured agreement where the terms of the agreement have thus been drawn up by the region and that
as a service provider to the region, it is not possible for MedHelp to determine which
information to data subjects to be provided.
IMY's assessment
The person responsible for personal data shall, according to Article 12.1 of the Data Protection Regulation
take appropriate steps to provide the data subject with all information according to
articles 13 and 14 in a concise, clear and distinct, comprehensible and easily accessible form, with
use of clear language, especially for information that is specifically targeted
to children. Article 13 states which information the personal data controller must
provide if the personal data is collected from the data subject.3 The
According to Article 13.1, the person in charge of personal data must provide information about, among other things
identity and contact details of the personal data controller, contact details for
the data protection officer where applicable, the purposes of the processing for which
the personal data is intended as well as the legal basis for the processing. The
Personal data controllers must also, according to Article 13.1 f, provide specific information about
he intends to transfer personal data to a third country.4

Article 14 of the data protection regulation specifies what information the personal data controller must provide about
the personal data is not collected from the data subject.
4 Where applicable, information that the personal data controller intends to transfer personal data to a third country
or an international organization and whether a decision by the Commission on adequate level of protection exists or
missing or, in the case of the transfers referred to in Article 46, 47 or Article 49(1) second paragraph, reference to
suitable or appropriate safeguards and how a copy of them can be obtained or where these have been made available.
3

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

16(23)

The obligation to provide information is extensive and a fundamental prerequisite for
individuals must gain knowledge of and control over how their personal data is processed.
The requirement of transparency is a fundamental principle according to Article 5.1 a i
data protection regulation. Reason 60 in the data protection regulation states that the principles
if fair and open treatment requires that the data subject be informed that
processing takes place and the purpose of it. The personal data controller should to it
Data subjects provide all additional information required to ensure a fair
and open processing, taking into account the specifics of personal data processing
circumstances and context.
According to Article 13.2, information must be provided, among other things, that there is a right to
of the personal data controller request access to personal data. A caregiver must
also follow ch. 8 § 6 PDL, which states what information the care provider must provide to
the registered in addition to what appears in articles 13 and 14. That information
shall include, among other things, what applies in terms of search terms, direct access and
disclosure of data on medium for automated processing.
IMY states that the public responsibility for Region Stockholm as principal according to
HSL does not imply any right of decision over MedHelp's daily operations and that
does not relieve MedHelp of the responsibility that comes with the role of caregiver and
personal data controller. The liability in Article 5.2 of the Data Protection Regulation
means that MedHelp is responsible for and must be able to demonstrate that MedHelp
complies with the basic data protection principles in Article 5.1. It is thus
MedHelp, which has the ultimate responsibility for the principle of openness being followed by
Care seekers receive the necessary information about the processing of personal data.
When a care seeker calls 1177, MedHelp collects personal data
care providers enter personal data for purposes related to care documentation. IMY
notes that according to Article 13 of the Data Protection Ordinance and Chapter 8 Section 6 PDL is set
extensive requirements for information that MedHelp does not provide. It is not enough to
MedHelp in a voicemail message informs care seekers that the call is coming
recorded for patient safety and quality purposes. For example, there is a complete lack of information about
that MedHelp is responsible for personal data, about MedHelp's contact details, about that
personal data is collected for purposes related to care documentation, if the legal
the basis for the processing and that there is a right to from it
personal data controller request access to personal data. It also has completely
missing information about personal data being transferred to third countries. Even that one
supplementary information required according to ch. 8 Section 6 PDL is missing.
Because MedHelp does not inform care seekers in connection with the collection of
the personal data during telephone calls to 1177, in addition to a voicemail message that
the call is recorded for patient safety and quality purposes, IMY notes that MedHelp
has processed personal data in violation of Article 13 and the specified requirement of
information to registered persons that appears in ch. 8. § 6 PDL.
Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation states that personal data must be processed
in a legal, accurate and transparent manner in relation to the data subject. Absence of
information according to Article 13 is assessed, as it significantly limits that of care seekers
conditions to make use of their rights, be so comprehensive and so serious that
the deficiency is deemed to be contrary to the principle of transparency in Article 5.1 a.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

17(23)

Responsibility for backup
MedHelp states, among other things, the following in the supervisory matter. The recording of calls to 1177
which are answered by MedHelp's nurses takes place within MedHelp's own
telephony platform. The calls are recorded and then stored on a storage server. There is
no backup of the audio files. MedHelp has a special solution that will last
many years without backup. The files are located on several disks in a RAID system. So have
the solution always looked for MedHelp's call. Recorded calls can be played back by
staff in MedHelp's patient safety center. In the system, a hit list can be produced
and by clicking on a line you can get to the journal entry and
play the call.
IMY's assessment
According to Article 32.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, the personal data controller is obliged to take
appropriate technical and organizational security measures. According to Article 32.2 shall at
the assessment of the appropriate security level special consideration is given to the risks that
the processing entails, in particular from accidental or illegal destruction, loss or
change or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to the personal data that
transferred, stored or otherwise processed. The ability to restore
the availability and access to personal data in a reasonable time in the event of a physical or technical
incident is, according to Article 32.1 c, a measure that may be appropriate when it comes to
ensure a level of security that is appropriate in relation to the risk.
Within its telephony platform, MedHelp processes personal data about care seekers i
audio files with recorded calls to 1177. It takes place in MedHelp's operations according to HSL for
purposes related to care documentation. The sensitive nature of the personal data, that
the personal data was collected in a confidential context relating to healthcare advice,
the extent of the treatment and high risks mean high demands on them
security measures that Medhelp must take according to article 32.1 of the data protection regulation.
HSLF-FS 2016:40 contains explicit regulations on backup. One
care providers must according to ch. 3 § 12 HSLF-FS 2016:40 ensure that personal data
which is processed in information systems is backed up with a fixed periodicity
and that the backup copies are stored securely, well separated from
the original data. The care provider must also decide how long the backup copies will last
is saved and how often re-reading tests of the copies must be done, ch. 3 § 13 HSLF-FS
2016:40. The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations constitute national law that supplements and
clarifies the data protection regulation and sets an explicit requirement for
backup. IMY notes that backup is a security measure that
MedHelp must take steps to fulfill the requirements according to Article 32.1 of the Data Protection Regulation.
MedHelp's use of a robust storage media, such as a RAID system, does not constitute backup. A RAID system does not offer a protection that
means that the data can be recreated if there is an incident that affects them
the accuracy of the stored data, for example if the system is affected by malicious code. To
However, MedHelp's use of a RAID system has an impact on MedHelp's ability to
continuity of treatment, i.e. to continuously ensure confidentiality, integrity,
availability and resilience of the treatment systems and services in that way
as stated in article 32.1 b of the data protection regulation.
As well as measures taken to ensure continuity in daily operations, to
example by using a RAID system, as measures taken to be able
returning to normal operations after an incident, such as backup, are actions

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

18(23)

to ensure availability. However, this does not mean that these measures can
replace each other, without complementing each other.
IMY notes that MedHelp, by not backing up audio files with recorded
calls to 1177 within MedHelp's telephony platform, have processed personal data in conflict
with Article 32.1.
According to the basic security principle in Article 5.1 f of the data protection regulation
personal data must be processed in a way that ensures appropriate security for
the personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized processing and against
loss, destruction or accidental damage, using appropriate
technical or organizational measures. Loss of care documentation can mean a
high risk to the rights and freedoms of those seeking care. The failure to implement
backup is therefore deemed to be of such a serious nature that the lack also entails a
violation of article 5.1 f of the data protection regulation.

Choice of intervention
Possible intervention measures
The IMY has a number of corrective powers available under Article 58.2 i
the data protection regulation, among other things IMY can submit to the personal data controller
to ensure that the processing takes place in accordance with the regulation and if required in one
specific way and within a specific period.
According to articles 58.2 and 83.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, IMY has the authority to
impose administrative penalty fees in accordance with Article 83. Subject to
the circumstances of the individual case, administrative penalty fees must be imposed
in addition to or instead of the other measures referred to in Article 58.2. Furthermore, it appears from
article 83.2 which factors must be taken into account when deciding whether administrative
penalty fees must be imposed and when determining the size of the fee.
If it is a question of a minor violation, IMY receives according to what is stated in reason 148 i
data protection regulation instead of imposing a penalty charge issue a reprimand
according to article 58.2 b of the data protection regulation. Consideration shall be given to aggravating and
mitigating circumstances of the case, such as the nature of the violation, degree of severity
and duration as well as previous violations of relevance.

A penalty fee must be imposed
IMY has assessed above that MedHelp has violated articles 5.1 a and f, 6, 9, 13 and 32.1
in the data protection regulation. Violations of these articles can according to article 83.4 and
83.5 cause administrative penalty fees.
In light of the fact that the observed violations have affected a very large number
care seekers who have been referred to call 1177 for healthcare advice and have covered
deficiencies in the handling of sensitive personal data such as information about health, it is not
the issue of minor violations.
There is thus no reason to replace any of these violations
the penalty fee with a reprimand. MedHelp must therefore be subject to administrative charges
penalty fees.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

19(23)

Determining the size of the penalty fee
General regulations
According to Article 83.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, each supervisory authority must ensure that
the imposition of administrative penalty charges on a case-by-case basis is effective;
proportionate and dissuasive. Article 83.2 specifies the factors to be taken into account when
determining the size of the penalty fee for the violation. At the assessment
of the size of the penalty fee, account must be taken of, among other things, the violation
nature, severity and duration, whether it was a matter of intent or
negligence, what steps were taken to mitigate the damage they recorded
has suffered, the degree of responsibility taking into account the technical and organizational measures
carried out in accordance with articles 25 and 32, how the subject of supervision has
cooperated with the supervisory authority, which categories of personal data are affected,
how the violation came to IMY's attention and whether there are other aggravating circumstances or
mitigating factors, for example direct or indirect financial gain from the procedure.
Violations of Article 5.1 a and f, 6, 9 and 13 of the data protection regulation are covered by
the higher penalty fee according to Article 83.5. The penalty fee must therefore
determined up to EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company, up to four percent
of the total global annual turnover in the previous financial year, depending on which
value which is the highest for violations concerning these articles. Violations of Article
32.1 is covered by the lower penalty fee according to Article 83.4. The penalty fee shall
thus, up to EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a company, up to two
percentage of the total global annual turnover in the previous financial year, depending
at whichever value is the highest for the violation relating to this article.
The term "a company" includes all companies that carry out an economic activity,
regardless of the legal status of the entity or the way in which it is financed.
Reason 150 in the data protection regulation states, among other things, that if administrative
penalty charges are imposed on a company, a company should be considered a company in that sense
as referred to in Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU.
This means that the assessment of what constitutes a company must be based on
competition law definitions. The rules for group liability in the EU
competition law revolves around the concept of economic unity. A parent company and
a subsidiary is considered part of the same economic unit when the parent company
exercises decisive influence over the subsidiary. The decisive influence (i.e.
the control) can be achieved either by ownership or by agreement.
MedHelp AB's annual report shows that MedHelp AB is part of a group, where
MedHelp AB is 95 percent owned by MedHelp Group OY (a Finnish limited company) as well as
to 5 percent of Meddet AB.
IMY believes that the fact that MedHelp is 95 percent owned by MedHelp Group OY
means that the group in question must be considered such an economic unit that
referred to in competition law. According to the annual report for the group was
annual turnover SEK 223,013,000 for the financial year 2019.5

5

Four percent of turnover corresponds to SEK 8,920,000 and two percent to SEK 4,460,000.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

20(23)

The maximum amount of penalty fees for covered violations
Article 83.5 of the Data Protection Regulation is thus EUR 20 million and for violations
which is covered by Article 83.4 EUR 10 million.
Penalty fee for each violation
IMY has established four violations relating to MedHelp's processing of personal data
as personal data controller.
MedHelp has exposed personal data in the form of audio files with recorded telephone conversations
to 1177 against the Internet without protection against unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to
the personal data in violation of article 5.1 f and article 32.1 of the data protection regulation.
MedHelp has processed personal data by disclosing sensitive personal data
to MediCall and allow MediCall to collect personal data in violation of Article 5.1 a, 6 and
9.1 of the data protection regulation. MedHelp has not provided information to
care seekers who called 1177 in violation of Article 5.1 a and Article 13 i
data protection regulation. Finally, MedHelp has not backed up
care documentation in the form of audio files containing recorded calls to 1177 which
answered by MedHelp's nurses within MedHelp's telephony platform in violation of
article 5.1 f and article 32.1 of the data protection regulation.
IMY assesses that the four violations do not constitute connected treatments
and that there should therefore be a penalty fee per violation.
For penalty fees to be effective and dissuasive, they must
the personal data controller's turnover is taken into account in particular when determining
size of penalty fees.6 A proportionality assessment must also be made in each
individual case. In the proportionality assessment, the total penalty fee is given
does not become too high in relation to the violations in question and also not too high i
relation to the person ordered to pay the penalty fee.
The penalty fee for each violation is determined as follows.
a) Processing of personal data about care seekers carried out by MediCall
MedHelp receives approximately 3 million calls per year within the framework of 1177, of which MediCall
answered 20 percent. It is thus about 600,000 calls per year as MediCall
answered. It is aggravating that it is a question of an extensive treatment of
sensitive and privacy-sensitive personal data, that personal data processing
carried out by an organization that is not covered by the privacy protection regulations
which applies within the Swedish healthcare system, e.g. the regulation on confidentiality,
that the care seeker has not been aware that the processing of personal data has taken place in
Thailand and that care seekers have not been able to waive the current one
the processing of personal data.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, IMY determines the administrative
the sanction fee to SEK 3 million for this violation.
b) Exposed audio files on the storage server Voice NAS
MedHelp has stored recordings of the care seeker's calls to 1177 on the storage server
Voice NAS. The investigation shows that on February 18, 2019, there were 2.7 million
6

Compare with articles 83.4 and 83.5 of the data protection regulation.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

21(23)

files on the Voice NAS and that one call corresponds on average to about three to four files. IMY
against that background has made the estimate that it is between 650,000 and
900,000 calls.
Everyone who is sick has the right to receive care. Care seekers who are not acutely ill are referred to
to call 1177. This involves a trusting contact with the care where care seekers
may be considered to have a high expectation that unauthorized persons should not have access to information that
conveyed during the conversation. The caller cannot object to personal data
processed for purposes related to care documentation.
In light of the nature of the data and the high security requirements for
personal data about care seekers, it is an aggravating circumstance that MedHelp,
as a care provider and personal data controller, have lacked control over the security of
the personal data. MedHelp did not know that the personal data in the Voice NAS had become
reachable without protective mechanisms. The stored content was leaked online by unknown
reason for MedHelp. MedHelp was made aware of the incident by Inera AB's vice president.
MedHelp only acted after the incident by investigating the Voice NAS, transferring
the care documentation to its own servers and inform Voice about the deletion of the calls.
It is serious that a large amount of health information has been accessible to anyone who has one
internet connection for an unknown amount of time.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, IMY determines the administrative
the sanction fee to SEK 8 million for this violation.
c) Information for care seekers
MedHelp receives approximately 3 million calls per year within the framework of the 1177. Regulations
if information means that MedHelp will automatically make people seeking care
aware of MedHelp's personal data processing and their rights in connection
with MedHelp's processing of personal data. It is the question of a comprehensive
duty of information, which is the basis for individuals to be able to have knowledge about and
control over how their personal data is processed.
It is aggravating that the lack of information affects a large number of care seekers and that
there is a complete lack of information that corresponds to the requirements according to the data protection regulation and
PDL, except as regards a voicemail message that the call will be recorded in
patient safety and quality purposes. The condition that information is not provided
among other things, that MedHelp is responsible for personal data, the purposes and the legal
the basis of the treatment and that care seekers can turn to MedHelp to practice
their rights according to the data protection regulation means that the conditions for
care seekers to make use of their rights is significantly limited. MedHelp also has
transferred personal data about patients to MediCall, a Thai company. It is
aggravating that there was a complete lack of information about the transfer of personal data to
Thailand, which is a third country.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, IMY determines the administrative
the penalty fee to SEK 500,000 for this violation.
d) Backup

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

22(23)

MedHelp receives approximately 3 million calls per year within the framework of 1177. Lack of
backup at MedHelp thus concerns a large number of care seekers. It is a
aggravating circumstance that there is a complete lack of backup of
care documentation on a large number of care seekers. Loss of care documentation can
entail a high risk for the rights and freedoms of those seeking care.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative penalty fee
must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, IMY determines the administrative
the penalty fee to SEK 500,000 for the violation.
Summary
IMY has found that MedHelp must pay a total administrative sanction fee of
SEK 12,000,000 for the identified violations, of which SEK 3,000,000 refers to
the violation at point a), SEK 8,000,000 refers to the violation at point b),
SEK 500,000 refers to the violation under point c) and SEK 500,000 refers to
the violation at point d).

Orders
MedHelp has not informed care seekers according to the requirements of the data protection regulation and
8 ch. § 6 PDL. The lack of information about, among other things, who is
personal data controller and his contact details limit the care applicant's
opportunities to, for example, exercise the right to request access to personal data
which MedHelp collects in connection with care seekers calling 1177. MedHelp has
not backed up audio files that constitute care documentation according to
data protection regulation and ch. 3 §§ 12-13 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
MedHelp receives about 3 million calls per year within the framework of 1177. That's a big one
amount of care seekers in need of healthcare advice that is affected by the lack of
information and backup.
MedHelp must therefore be instructed according to Article 58.2 d of the data protection regulation that
as soon as possible and no later than two months after the decision has gained legal force ensure that
the processing takes place in accordance with the data protection regulation and supplementary
national law regarding information to care seekers and backups.
MedHelp has stated that MedHelp will suffer additional damages if any
injunctions on information to data subjects and back-up are in conflict with
MedHelp's agreement with Region Stockholm or with procurement legislation.
MedHelp, as healthcare provider and personal data controller, has the ultimate responsibility for
a legal processing of personal data, which includes that care seekers receive
information about the processing of personal data and that backup measures
be taken.
This decision has been taken by the general manager Lena Lindgren Schelin after a presentation
by IT security specialist Magnus Bergström and department director Suzanne
Iceberg. In the handling are the unit manager Katarina Tullstedt and the lawyer Mattias
Sandström participated. In the final proceedings, the Chief Justice David also has
Törngren and unit manager Malin Blixt participated.
Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2021-06-07 (This is an electronic signature)

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-3375
Date: 2021-06-07

23(23)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you received it
part of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

Appendix
Appendix – Information on payment of penalty fee.
Copy to
MedHelp's CEO via email

