

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data in connection with the implementation of the so-called newborn screening
Health service provider - hospital


The inspection was launched on the basis of the Office's inspection plan for 2019. The subject of the inspection was the processing of personal data within the framework of newborn laboratory screening (including blood samples from the so-called dry drop of blood), especially in relation to the storage period of the collected samples and their disposal, the fulfillment of other obligations set out in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (especially Articles 5, 6 and 9) and the exercise of the rights of data subjects (Articles 12 to 23). Newborn screening consists of an active and comprehensive search for diseases in their early, preclinical stage so that these diseases are diagnosed and treated before they manifest themselves and cause irreversible health damage to the newborn. It is based on the analysis of a dry drop of blood on a filter paper - the so-called newborn screening card. Newborn laboratory screening for congenital and hereditary diseases is part of preventive care according to Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services, and the consent of the newborn's legal representative is necessary for its implementation. As part of the inspection, all procedures during the processing (handling) of the collected samples of so-called dry drops of newborn blood were checked, i.e. from collection to processing, storage and disposal. At the same time, the control was aimed at ensuring the processing of samples at the relevant workplaces of the hospital. The inspection did not reveal a violation of the duties of the personal data administrator. Additional information: The processing of special categories of data in the field of public health protection, with regard to the riskiness and sensitivity of the processing of such data, must be carried out exactly on the basis of legal authorization, which also implies the responsibility of the entities involved in the acquisition , further processing and final storage of data.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Healthcare > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with the implementation of the so-called newborn screeningView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



