1/15

 

Litigation Chamber

 

Decision on the merits 37/2021 of 16 March 2021

 

 

 

 

File number: DOS-2020-00310

 

Subject: Complaint for refusal to remove the mention of the title of nobility from the documents

ID and other official documents

 

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Yves Poullet and Christophe Boeraeve, members, taking over the business

in this composition;

 

 Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the

data protection), hereinafter GDPR;

 

Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter LCA);

 

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on December 20

2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

 

Considering the documents in the file;

 

made the following decision regarding:

-

-

 

 

the complainant: Ms. X,

the defendant: Y, as representative of Y1

1. Facts and procedural history

1. In December 2015 and January 2016, the complainant approached her administration

municipality in order to be able to have an identity card drawn up without mentioning his title of

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 2/15

nobility (Countess). The defendant considered that the request was not admissible in

the extent to which the title would, in its view, form an integral part of the name and should therefore

appear on the identity card.

2. In September 2016, the complainant requested a new passport from her municipality. In

In this context, she chose the option “title of nobility: optional” (her title did not appear

on earlier versions of their passport). However, shortly after his request,

the municipal administration contacts the complainant to inform her that the title

must be indicated on the passport.

3. By letter dated 28 March 2016, the predecessor of the DPA, the Commission for the Protection of

privacy (CPVP) questioned the defendant (more precisely the director general of

the Directorate General for Institutions and Population (DGIP)), on the mandatory or

optional mention of the title of nobility on the identity card.

4. By letter dated April 14, 2016, the defendant indicated that the insertion of the title of

nobility in the acts is mandatory and that it is therefore mentioned on the identity card

provided that it is included in the National Register of Natural Persons. To support his

say, the defendant relies on:

Article 1 of the Royal Decree of 26 January 1822 relating to titles of nobility and qualities;

the Elementary Treatise on Belgian Civil Law by Professor Henri De Page;

the Y2 FAQ.

-

-

-

 

5. By letter dated July 12, 2016, the CPVP replied to the defendant that it was only joining

not the arguments developed in the letter of April 14, 2016 given that,

subsequent to the Royal Decree of 26 January 1822 relating to titles of nobility and qualities,

new legislation and decrees which must be taken into account have been adopted, namely:

-

the law of 19 July 1991 relating to population registers, maps

of identity, foreigner's cards and residence documents and amending

the law of 8 August 1983 organizing a national register of persons

physical, which specifies in its article 6, § 2, the data which must

be mentioned on the identity card, among which are not found

not explicitly titles of nobility;

 

-

the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to

processing of personal data which stipulates in its

article 4 § 1, 3° that “the data must be: (…) adequate,

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 3/15

relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they

are obtained and for which they are subsequently processed (…)”.

6. On September 30, 2016, the defendant requested the opinion of the Council of Nobility of the Y2 as to

to the arguments raised by the CPP. This, in its opinion of January 18, 2017, joins the

arguments developed by the defendant in its letter of April 14, 2016.

7. The opinion of the Y3 was also requested by the defendant on March 8, 2017. The Y3

agrees with the defendant's position.

8. On May 9, 2017, the various departments concerned met. At the end of this

meeting :

-

the Y3 reaffirmed the maintenance of the title of nobility on the acts of civil status, the title

nobiliary forming an integral part of the name;

according to the Y2, the title of nobility must be maintained on the passports;

the CPVP, for its part, requested the deletion, at the request, of the mention of the title of

-

-

nobility on the identity card.

No consensus could be reached.

 

9. On May 16, 2017, the CPP, through a summary note, repeated the arguments

justifying its position and proposed a solution consisting in systematically indicating the

title of nobility on the identity card and passport, unless the person concerned requests that this

title is not mentioned.

10. A letter summarizing the various arguments formulated by the defendant and rejecting

reasoned manner the solution proposed by the CPVP was then sent by the defendant to

CPP (dated May 28, 2018), which forwarded it to the complainant on October 18, 2018.

letter in question resumes the various arguments formulated by the defendant

demonstrating that the solution proposed by the CPP cannot be followed.

11. By letter dated March 24, 2019 addressed to the defendant, the complainant reiterates her request

removal of the title of nobility from his identity card and passport, and proposes three

solutions.

12. The complainant also wishes that her title no longer appear on any document issued by

administration.

2. Legal basis

 

 

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 4/15

- Article 5.1.b of the GDPR

“Personal data must be (…) collected for specific purposes,

explicit and legitimate, and not further processed in a manner inconsistent with these

purposes; further processing for archival purposes in the public interest, for research purposes

scientific or historical or for statistical purposes shall not be considered, in accordance with Article 89,

paragraph 1, as incompatible with the initial purposes (limitation of purposes)”

 

- Article 5.1.c of the GDPR

“Personal data must be (...) adequate, relevant and limited to what is

necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (data minimization)”

 

- Article 6.1 .e of the GDPR

"The processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the following conditions is

met: (…) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or falling within the

the exercise of official authority vested in the controller.

 

3. The arguments of the parties

13. The defendant submits that the title of nobility is part of the name, and that it must therefore appear

on identity documents. Any derogation would require a legislative amendment. The

plaintiff considers on the contrary that the title is not part of the name, and that it is not

necessary for its identification.

14. The defendant points out that certain texts relating to civil status documents require the

mention of the title. However, civil status certificates and identity documents must necessarily

use the same information, on the basis of the necessary consistency between the register

national and civil registers. Therefore, according to the defendant, the title must

appear on both civil status certificates and identity documents.

15. The Complainant argues that according to the European Court of Human Rights, the “right to

name" implies the right not to have the integration in his name of mentions

which is not part of it (the title). However, the defendant replies that the title is an integral part

by name.

16. According to the complainant, the mention of the title is a source of discrimination because it creates

prejudices in the collective imagination. The defendant replies that the title is not a criterion

protected constituent of social origin, in the sense of the law of May 10, 2007 tending to fight

against certain forms of discrimination.

 

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 5/15

 

4. Motivation

As a preliminary point, the Chamber notes that although the provisions of the GDPR mentioned below

are not included in the submissions of the parties, the Litigation Division notes that the

complaint is brought before it and, therefore, qualifies the legal arguments invoked and relating

to the disputed facts set out in the complaint with regard to the GDPR, in the context of the dispute brought before

it and in the context of the competences attributed to it.

The Litigation Chamber specifies that this decision focuses on the identity card, and

does not address the passport or other documents issued by the administration (such as the license

driving, for example), insofar as the sole responsibility of the

identity card defendant.

4.1- Regarding the mention of the title next to the name on the identity card

17. In the current state of the law, the Litigation Division finds uncertainty regarding

the obligation or not to show the title next to the name on identity documents 1.

Although the Royal Decree (AR) of 1822 relating to titles of nobility and qualities remains in effect

of application, since it has not been repealed, it seems obsolete. It would seem that the use has

subsequently introduced the insertion of the title on civil status documents. This use is particularly

taken up by the Royal Decree of January 8, 20062 as well as that of February 3, 2019 relating to status documents

civil3, which explicitly mention that the title must be indicated (the other legislative texts

invoked do not comment on the mention of the title).

18. However, the lex specialis, the law of 19 July 1991 relating to population registers, maps

of identity, foreigners' cards and residence documents does not mention the title

as an element that must appear on the identity card. Its article 6 § 2 indeed states:

"§ 2. [8 The identity card and the foreigner's card contain, in addition to the holder's signature,

personal information visible to the naked eye and electronically readable.]8

  Personal information visible to the naked eye and electronically readable

concern:

  1° the name;

  (2) the first two given names;

  (3) the first letter of the third given name;

  4° nationality;

                                                

1 It should be noted at the outset that this question is different from the question of whether the title is an integral part of the name,
discussed below.

2 Royal Decree of 8 January 2006 determining the types of information associated with the information referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1, of the law of
August 8, 1983 organizing a National Register of Natural Persons

3 AR of 3 February 2019 fixing the models of extracts and copies of civil status documents

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 6/15

  5° [8 ...]8 the date of birth;

  6° sex;

  7° the place of issue of the card;

  8° the start and end date of validity of the card;

  9° the name and number of the card;

  10° the photograph of the holder;

  11° (...); <L 2004-07-09/30, art. 95, 011; Effective: 25-07-2004>

  12° the National Registry identification number. »

 

Insofar as this law specific to identity cards constitutes the lex specialis, as well as

that by virtue of the hierarchy of norms, this law must take precedence over the Royal Decree of 1822.

4.2- As to whether the title is an integral part of the name

19. The question of whether the title is an integral part of the name is also debated. In

Indeed, no normative text invoked by the parties takes a position on this subject (the RD

aforementioned of 1822 only indicates that the title should appear next to the name, without

explain that it is part of it). Recent case law4, however, seems to make the distinction

between title and name.

20. Insofar as the argument based on the right to the name (raised by the complainant to reject

the integration in its name of its title) is directly linked to the question of whether the title

is an integral part of the name or not, and that this aspect does not fall within the competence of

the Litigation Division, this issue is not addressed in this decision.

21. The complainant also alleges discrimination related to the mention of her title on her card

of identity, because of the collective imagination frequently associated with titles of nobility. The

Litigation Chamber considers that although this does not fall within its direct competence,

insofar as the "rules governing the protection of natural persons with regard to the

processing of personal data concerning them should (…) respect their

fundamental rights and freedoms", and that, moreover, the right to data protection

is a fundamental right, aiming among other things to "contribute to the creation of an area of

freedom, security and justice”5, this argument regarding discrimination can be taken

considered by the Chamber, a fortiori insofar as the mention of the title is not

                                                

4 See in particular the C. App. Brussels, 2020-6638, 01 October 2020, p17-18

5 Recital 2 of the GDPR: “The principles and rules governing the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data relating to them should, regardless of the nationality or residence of such persons
physical, respect their fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular their right to the protection of personal data
staff. This Regulation aims to contribute to the achievement of an area of freedom, security and justice and of a European Union
economy, to economic and social progress, to the consolidation and convergence of the economies within the internal market,
as well as the well-being of natural persons”.

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 7/15

necessary for the purpose of the processing pursued for an identity card (as set out

below).

4.3- As for the consistency between the national register and the civil status registers

22. The defendant points out that certain texts relating to civil status documents (the RDs

aforementioned of January 8, 2006 “determining the types of information associated with

information referred to in article 3 paragraph 1 of the law of 8 August 1983 organizing a register

of natural persons” and the Royal Decree of 3 February 2019 “setting the models of extracts

and copies of civil status documents”) require mention of the title in civil status documents.

However, the defendant points out that civil status certificates and identity documents must

necessarily use the same information, on the basis of the necessary consistency between

the national register and the civil status registers. It also specifies that the intention of the legislator

to reduce the discrepancies between these registers is all the clearer since the creation of

the Bank of Civil Status Records (BAEC) in 2018, one of the purposes of which is to make

updating the data of the National Register on the basis of the data it contains6. Through

Consequently, according to the defendant, the title must appear both on the civil status certificates and

on identity documents.

23. However, although it is sensitive to the need for consistency between the data appearing in

the BAEC, in the national register and in the population registers, the Chamber

Litigation, in its role as guardian of the GDPR and other laws relating to the protection

data and privacy, recalls the fundamental importance of respecting the right to

the protection of personal data. The GDPR thus enshrines in the same

                                                

6 Art. 72 of the law of 18 June 2018 laying down various provisions in matters of civil law and provisions with a view to promoting
alternative forms of dispute resolution

“BAEC’s mission is:

  1° to assist civil registrars and consular agents in the exercise of their legal missions in matters
establishment and updating of acts and registers of civil status;

  2° to guarantee as an authentic source the storage, preservation and availability of all state documents
listed in the BAEC, without affecting the legal missions of the National Register as the authentic source of
identification data of natural persons;

  (3) to provide a service to citizens, wherever they may be;

  4° to simplify administrative procedures via the obligation to reuse the documents and data available in the
BAEC;

  5° to assist the judiciary in the exercise of its missions;

  6° to provide for central and uniform control at the level of the establishment and keeping of documents, as well as the
issuance of extracts and copies thereof;

  7° to allow the application of international treaties and agreements in matters of civil status;

  (8) to allow the establishment of aggregate and anonymous statistics relating to civil status;

  9° to ensure the conservation of civil status documents until the moment of their transfer to the [1 General Archives of the Kingdom
and State Archives in the Provinces]1;

  10° to provide for simultaneous updating of the data of the National Register on the basis of the data listed in the
BAEC. »

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 8/15

Article 25 (Data protection by design and data protection by default)

than :

“1- Considering the state of knowledge, the costs of implementation and the nature,

scope, context and purposes of the processing as well as the risks, including the degree of probability

and severity varies, that the processing presents for the rights and freedoms of natural persons,

the data controller implements, both at the time of determining the means of the

processing only at the time of the processing itself, the technical and organizational measures

appropriate, such as pseudonymization, which are intended to implement the principles

relating to data protection, for example data minimization, in a way

effective and to provide the processing with the necessary safeguards in order to meet the requirements of the

this Regulation and to protect the rights of the data subject.

2- The controller implements the technical and organizational measures

appropriate to ensure that, by default, only personal data that is

are necessary with regard to each specific purpose of the processing are processed.

This applies to the amount of personal data collected, to the extent of their

processing, their retention period and their accessibility. In particular, these measures

ensure that, by default, personal data is not made accessible

to an indeterminate number of natural persons without the intervention of the natural person

concerned.”

4.3.1- As regards compliance with the principles of minimization and finality (article 5.1.c. and article

5.1.b GDPR)

24. In its capacity as data controller, the defendant is required to comply with the

data protection principles and must be able to demonstrate that these are

respected (principle of responsibility – article 5.2. of the GDPR). Moreover, it must always

in its capacity as data controller, implement all necessary measures

for this purpose (Article 24 of the GDPR). Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR enshrines the principle of finality,

either the requirement that the data be collected for specific, explicit purposes

and legitimate and not further processed in a manner inconsistent with these

purposes. It is in the light of the purpose that other principles may also apply.

devoted to Article 5 of the GDPR, including the principle of minimization, according to which only

adequate, relevant and limited data to what is necessary for the purpose

may be processed (article 5.1.c) of the GDPR).

25. In other words, each processing of personal data pursues its purpose

own. Processing carried out in the context of a family composition document or

election notice does not pursue the same purpose as processing carried out in the context of

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 9/15

of an identity card. The purpose pursued in this context of the identity card is

in the identification of the person concerned.

26. In application of the principle of finality, the Litigation Chamber is of the opinion that the logic

of a concordance between the national register and the civil status documents does not imply that the

The complainant's title must appear on her identity card. Indeed, the fact that the title of the

complainant is included in the BAEC does not imply that each document whose data

are generated on the basis of the BAEC must necessarily include exhaustively the

data present in this database. As indicated above, the data included

of the BAEC should be selected according to the purpose of the generated document (and

also keeping in mind the principle of minimization -see next point-). this

applies a fortiori to the identity card, a document used on a regular basis and for purposes

diverse in everyday life.

27. The notion of necessity is also included in Article 6.1.e of the GDPR7, which provides

that "the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or

of the exercise of official authority vested in the controller" (we

emphasize). This notion of necessity must be read in conjunction with the principle of

minimization of data (5.1.c of the GDPR -see above-), which must be "adequate,

relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they

are processed”. The purpose of the mentions of personal data on the documents

of identity and on civil status documents is the identification of the person concerned. It suits

therefore to question the extent to which the mention of the title is necessary to

identification of the complainant.

28. The CJEU recalled in its judgment Huber8 that the concept of necessity is a “concept

autonomous from Community law which must be interpreted in such a way as to meet

fully to the purpose of this Directive as defined in Article 1(1) thereof.

this. (§52).

29. She also underlined that “(…) it is up to the authority responsible for a register […] to

ensure that the data stored is, where necessary, updated, so that,

on the one hand, they correspond to the actual situation of the persons concerned and, on the other

hand, that superfluous data be deleted from said register. (§60) (emphasis added)

30. This case-law, admittedly formulated in the light of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, is valid

for all the bases of lawfulness which retain this condition of necessity. She remains

relevant today even though Directive 95/46 has been repealed since this

                                                

7 Compliance with this Article of the processing in the present case is examined below in points 36 and following

8 ECHR, Heinz Huber v. Bundesrepublik Deutschland, C-524/06, 16 December 2008

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 10/15

condition of necessity is maintained under the terms of Article 6.1 b) to f) of the GDPR. The article

6.1 of the GDPR replaces article 7 of the directive, without the relevant provisions being

modified.

31. The Article 29 Group has also referred to ECHR case law to

identify the requirement of necessity9 and concludes that the adjective “necessary” does not have the

flexibility of terms such as "admissible", "normal", "useful", "reasonable" or

“timely”.10

32. The Litigation Division considers that the indication of the surname, first name, date and place of

birth, as well as the national register number of the complainant are sufficient to identify her.

The fact that until 2011, the mention of the noble title on the passport was optional

also tends to demonstrate that the title is not necessary to identify the

concerned person.

33. The Litigation Chamber also considers that it is appropriate to distinguish, when assessing

the need to mention the noble title, the identity card, in that it is a

document required and used on a daily basis on a regular basis, civil status documents (such as

family composition, for example). Insofar as the identity card is required to be

used on a regular basis on a daily basis, it is advisable to be all the more vigilant that there is no

appear only the information strictly necessary for identification.

34. The Litigation Chamber considers that the mention of the title of nobility, in any case

cause, on the identity documents, is not a statement strictly necessary for

identification, and is therefore superfluous. Based on the principle of minimization (article

5.1, c) of the GDPR), it is not necessary for the title to appear on the identity card.

35. Overly, and without taking a position as to whether the title is part of

integral to the name or not, the Litigation Chamber finds that the Royal Decree of 1822 relating to

titles of nobility and qualities, requiring that the title be indicated next to the name (which

indicates that the title of nobility is not the name but a complement to it), poses

question with regard to article 5.1, c) of the GDPR (principle of minimization).

4.3.2- As for the basis of lawfulness of the exercise of a mission of public interest (article 6.1.e of the

GDPR)

36. It is not disputed that there is indeed a processing of personal data in

the head of the defendant. Insofar as the processing in question is carried out by the

                                                

9 Article 29 Group, Opinion 06/2014 of 9 April 2014 on the notion of legitimate interest pursued by the controller
data within the meaning of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, WP 217.

10 ECHR, 25 March 1983, Silver and others v. United Kingdom, para 97.

 

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 11/15

defendant in its capacity as an organ of the Belgian State, it is appropriate to question the basis

lawfulness of the processing and its compliance with Article 6.1.e of the GDPR.

37. The Litigation Chamber considers that the assessment by a data controller of the

lawfulness of the processing carried out on the basis of its mission of public interest (which, as a reminder, must be

"necessary for the performance of a mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of

public authority vested in the controller) cannot be detached from the

purpose pursued by the processing concerned, in this case, the identification of the person

concerned.

38. To assert the contrary would be tantamount to exempting the data controller from any examination

the relevance of the data processed, even though the implementation of this principle

founder of the data protection provided for in Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR is his responsibility

quality of data controller.

39. The Litigation Chamber is of the opinion that the only useful interpretation that is likely to

give full effect to the notion of necessity as required by the case law of the ECHR and

of the CJEU is that which consists in qualifying as “necessary for the performance of the mission

of public interest”, the only data necessary for the purpose of identifying the person

concerned. The mention of the title is not necessary for the respect of the execution of the mission

public interest of the defendant. Accordingly, the Litigation Chamber concludes that there is no

basis of lawfulness for the processing on the part of the defendant, and consequently to

a breach of Article 6.1.e of the GDPR.

4.3.3- Regarding the “opt out” system proposed by the complainant

40. The complainant further proposes an “opt-out” system, in which a holder of a

title of nobility could request that the title be removed from their identity documents

and civil status documents. In the absence of a request, the title would be systematically indicated. The

defendant rejects this proposal, arguing in its submissions that it cannot

operate individual processing and that the same regime must be applied to all holders

of a noble title, at the risk of undermining the principles of legality, equality, and therefore

of legal certainty.

41. It is apparent from the reading of the letter of 28 May 2018 from the defendant to the APD (exhibit 8 of

the defendant) that the costs of adapting the defendant's computer system

in order to automatically withdraw the title of nobility, in the event of a request to this effect,

would be too high for an individual application. If the Litigation Chamber is sensitive

to this argument, it nevertheless recalls that the Court of Markets previously considered that

the argument taken by a bank of the technical difficulties and costs of adapting a

computer program by inserting an acute accent on a customer name is not

relevant. The Court also indicates that the computer programs used must meet

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 12/15

GDPR11 requirements. It is reasonable to think that this reasoning would apply

a fortiori in the title of nobility.

42. In any event, the aforementioned letter of May 28, 2018 from the Respondent refers to

also the possibility of a one-time manual modification in the file(s) concerned,

but rejects this way of proceeding because the risk of error and forgetting would be too great. Gold,

particularly in view of the defendant's indication that, as of the date of the letter,

the only holder of a nobiliary title having made a request in this sense is the plaintiff, the

risk of error related to manual manipulation in the computer system seems low.

43. Finally, the Litigation Chamber emphasizes that although it does not consider it necessary in the

case in point that the defendant adapts its computer system to allow a

automated withdrawal of the title of nobility, it recalls that a technological obstacle, according to the

context and to the extent reasonable and proportional, cannot prevent the exercise

of one of his fundamental rights by a data subject.

44. For the sake of completeness and in view of the technical arguments raised by the defendant,

the Litigation Division draws the defendant's attention to the need to respect the

data protection by design and data protection by default, founded in

Article 25 of the GDPR12. These concepts are among the cornerstones of the GDPR and the

responsibility which is the heart of it, in article 5.2 in conjunction with article 24 GDPR. They

are contained in Article 25 of the AVG mentioned above and are explained in more detail in

recital 78 GDPR. The defendant therefore has an obligation to adopt the “measures

appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that, by default, only data

of a personal nature which are necessary with regard to each specific purpose of the

treatment are treated" in addition to having integrated such measures from the design stage.

45. In its Guidelines 4/2019 on data protection by design and

data protection by default, the EDPB specifies that Article 25.1 GDPR implies that the

data controllers must take data protection into account from the

default design and data protection at an early stage when planning a

                                                

11 C.App. Brussels, 2019/7537, 09 October 2019, p15

12 Art. 25 GDPR:

1. Considering the state of knowledge, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and
purposes of the processing as well as the risks, the degree of probability and severity of which varies, that the processing presents for
the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller implements, both at the time of determination
means of processing only at the time of the processing itself, appropriate technical and organizational measures,
such as pseudonymisation, which are intended to implement the principles relating to data protection, for
example the minimization of data, in an effective way and to match the processing with the necessary guarantees in order to respond
the requirements of this Regulation and to protect the rights of the data subject.

2. The controller implements appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that,
by default, only the personal data that is necessary in relation to each specific purpose of the processing
are processed. This applies to the amount of personal data collected, the scope of their processing, their
shelf life and accessibility. In particular, these measures ensure that, by default, personal data
personnel are not made accessible to an indeterminate number of natural persons without the intervention of the person
physics involved.

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 13/15

new treatment. Data controllers must implement the protection

data from design by default before processing, and also continuously at the

duration of treatment, regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the chosen measures and

guarantees. These same principles also apply to existing systems that process

personal data13. In other words, the protection of their data

personal data is inherent (built-in) to the processing.

46. The CJEU has also underlined the importance of these concepts in its case-law and, in

particular in its Digital Rights Ireland ruling that the essence of section 8 of the

Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union requires that technical measures

and organizational measures are taken to ensure that personal data

are effectively protected against any risk of misuse and against any access

and any unauthorized use14.

5.

Corrective measures and sanctions

47. Based on the above analysis, the Litigation Chamber considers that by refusing to

following the plaintiff's request to remove the mention of her title of nobility from her

identity card, the controller has violated Article 5.1.c, 5.1.b and 6.1.e of the GDPR.

48. Under Article 100 LCA, the Litigation Chamber has the power to:

1° dismiss the complaint without follow-up;

2° order the dismissal;

3° order a suspension of the pronouncement;

4° to propose a transaction;

5° issue warnings or reprimands;

6° order to comply with requests from the data subject to exercise these rights;

(7) order that the person concerned be informed of the security problem;

8° order the freezing, limitation or temporary or permanent prohibition of processing;

9° order the processing to be brought into conformity;

10° order the rectification, restriction or erasure of the data and the notification thereof;

ci to data recipients;

                                                

13 EDPB, Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25, Data Protection by Design and by Default, Version 2.0, Adopted on 20 October 2020,
p4

14 CJEU, joined cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights Ireland, para. 40 and 66-67.

Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 14/15

11° order the withdrawal of accreditation from certification bodies;

12° to issue periodic penalty payments;

13° to impose administrative fines;

14° order the suspension of cross-border data flows to another State or an organization

international;

15° forward the file to the public prosecutor's office in Brussels, who informs it of the follow-up

data on file;

16° decide on a case-by-case basis to publish its decisions on the website of the Protection Authority

Datas.

 

49. It is important to contextualize breaches of Articles 5.1.c, 5.1.b and 6.1.e of the GDPR

on the other hand with a view to identifying the most appropriate sanctions and/or corrective measures.

In accordance with Article 83 of the GDPR, administrative fines must be

"effective, proportionate and dissuasive". To this end, it is necessary in particular to take into account

account of “the nature, gravity and duration of the violation”15. As indicated above, the

principles of minimization (article 5.1.c) and finality (article 5.1.b) constitute stones

cornerstones of the GDPR, a fortiori when combined with the principle of lawfulness (article 6 GDPR)

and data protection by design and data protection by default, in

that they fall under the fundamental principles of data protection. Bedroom

Litigation also notes that the complainant has been trying since 2016 to have the

mention of his title of nobility in his administrative documents, without success.

50. Nevertheless, insofar as Article 83 of the GDPR is not applicable to the authorities

public16, the Litigation Chamber considers that a reprimand constitutes the most

more appropriate for the past breaches listed above, and orders for the future the implementation

in compliance of the processing with the principles of purpose and minimization, by withdrawing the

mention of the title of nobility on the identity card of the complainant.

51. Given the importance of transparency with regard to the decision-making process

and the decisions of the Litigation Chamber, this decision will be published on the website

of the Data Protection Authority by deleting the data

                                                

15 GDPR Article 83.2.a)

16 Article 221 § 2 of the law of July 30, 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to data processing
of a personal nature: "Article 83 of the Regulation does not apply to public authorities and their servants or agents
except in the case of legal persons governed by public law which offer goods or services on a market. »

direct identification of the parties and the persons cited, whether physical or

 Decision on the merits 37/2021 - 15/15

morals.

 

FOR THESE REASONS,

THE LITIGATION CHAMBER

Decides, after deliberation:

- To impose a reprimand

- To order the compliance of the processing with the principles of purpose and minimization, in

removing the mention of the title of nobility from the identity card of the complainant, within a period of

30 days from the notification of this decision

-

to order the data controller to inform the Data Protection Authority by e-mail

data (Litigation Chamber) of the result of this decision within the same period via the address

email litigationchamber@apd-gba.be

Pursuant to Article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed to the

Court of Markets (Brussels Court of Appeal) within 30 days of its notification,

with the Data Protection Authority as defendant.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans

President of the Litigation Chamber

