1/17

 File No.: PS/00198/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 29, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against RADIO TELEVISION
MADRID, S.A. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is
transcribe:

<<

File No.: PS/00198/2022

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), dated April 8,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed, among others, against RADIO TELEVISION MADRID, S.A. with CIF
A87645719 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based
are the following:

The complaining party reports that several media outlets published in their
websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a rape victim
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very media. The complaining party provides links to the news published in the
claimed media websites.

On May 10, 2021, a new letter was received from the party
claimant stating that he has been able to verify that currently there is no
none of the claimed publications are available, but they do remain
The publications made in the profiles of these media on Twitter are available.

SECOND: On May 12, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

During the investigative actions, publications were found where it was possible to
hear the victim's voice without distortion. For all data controllers
issued, dated May 13, 2021, a precautionary measure for the urgent withdrawal of
content or distorted the voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible.

These extremes could be verified in relation to RADIO TELEVISION MADRID,
S.A. :
***URL.1

On May 14, 2021, this Agency received a letter sent by this
entity reporting that the indicated tweet had been deleted. They have likewise
proceeded to remove the video of the victim's statement from the channels of
on-demand television where it had been published. The tweet was found to have been
removed.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD) recognizes each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Voice as personal data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

The voice of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is personal data.
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said RGPD:

“«personal data»: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each natural person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, their way of being, their culture, their origin, their hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of expression, idiolect or intonation, are also data of
personal character considered in conjunction with the voice.

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image as well as the voice of a person is a personal data, as it will be
any information that allows to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the Judgment of the National High Court dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes personal data, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
What
<<any information concerning natural persons identified or
identifiable>>, an issue that is not controversial.”

Article 4.2 of the RGPD defines "treatment" as: "any operation or set
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, involves the processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person in charge of the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations that for the person in charge of the treatment are arranged in the RGPD and in
the LOPDGDD.

III

Right to data protection

This proceeding is initiated because the respondent party published, on the website
referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a
multiple rape, to illustrate the news related to the trial in a case

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

which was very media. The voice of the victim was appreciated with all clarity when recounting
with all crude details the multiple violation suffered. All this constitutes a
treatment of personal data of the victim.

Individuals have the power to dispose of their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its dissemination, resulting, without a doubt, worthy of
protection of the person whose personal data is disseminated in violation of the legal
legal.

Thus, the STC 292/2000, of November 30, provides that "the content of the right
fundamental to data protection consists of a power of disposition and control
on the personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what this third party can
collect, and that also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposal and
control over personal data, which constitute part of the content of the right
fundamental to data protection are legally specified in the power to
consent to the collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent
storage and treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the
State or an individual. And that right to consent to knowledge and treatment,
computerized or not, of the personal data, requires as complements
essential, on the one hand, the ability to know at all times who has
that personal data and to what use it is subjecting them, and, on the other hand, the power
oppose such possession and uses”.

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all data controllers must respect the principles of
treatment collected in article 5 of the RGPD. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
RGPD that establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed (“data minimization”);”

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection may
yield to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it case by case.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing informational public interest in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim -without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example) -, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By weighing the
conflicting interests and, taking into account the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the particularly sensitive nature of personal data and the intense

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

affecting the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed to the
intended public interest in its dissemination.

IV

Right of information

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to the Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even
when equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
Ordinarily, the first one tends to be endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, having attended all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, exceed the limits set
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/EC, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of the
RGPD, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
assumptions in which the issue of legitimate interest may arise, asserting that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

v

Limits to the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information.

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the
civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honour, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

Thus, we will cite, for all, the STC 27/2020, of February 24, 2020 (appeal of
amparo 1369-2017) that provides, in relation to the image of a person, and
starting from the uncontroversial fact that makes it identifiable, that “…the question
debated is reduced to considering whether the non-consensual reproduction of the image of a
anonymous person, that is, someone who is not a public figure, but who acquires
suddenly and inadvertently a role in the newsworthy event, in this case as
victim of his brother's failed murder attempt and subsequent suicide
of this, supposed an illegitimate interference in his fundamental right to the own
image (art. 18.1 EC).

[…]

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
independence of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
this data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to transmit (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
december; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20 of
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
of April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a
response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that their condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. For this reason, the present
Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
poses our society, intends, starting from the recognition of the dignity of the
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the crime victim
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
information, in this case the apparent execution of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, 272/2011 of April 11, 2011
(rec. 1747/2008), in which, regarding the data necessary to provide a
information and the limits to the public interest states that “b) Trivial information is not
protects (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing unnecessary data in a case of
violation (the full name, the initials of the surnames, the portal of the street where
the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not respect the reserve, only
seek to satisfy curiosity, produce disturbances or annoyances and reveal
unnecessarily aspects of personal and private life, allowing neighbors,
close people and relatives the full identification of the victim and the knowledge
with great detail of an act that seriously undermined his dignity (STC
185/2002) or about a disease that is not of public interest and affects
direct to the irreducible area of intimacy and that is revealed to the effect of a pure
joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

Likewise, the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, Judgment 661/2016 of 10
November 2016 (rec. 3318/2014), in relation to the capture and disclosure in court
of the image of a victim of gender-based violence provided that “1st) The
interest of the questioned information nor the right of the defendant television channel
to broadcast images recorded during the oral trial of the criminal case, since
There is no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the identification of the applicant
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
plans of his face and the mention of 03/31/2022 his first name and place of
residence, was also included in the fundamental right of the chain of
television demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, it was

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

limited by the applicant's fundamental rights to personal privacy and
your own image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
of July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (sentences
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does fit a complete identification, and not only by his initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of ill-treatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television network should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid the emission of images that represented the
recurrent in the foreground, either refraining from broadcasting the corresponding shots,
either using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning his first name, because this piece of information, insufficient by itself to
constituting illegitimate interference, became relevant when it was pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
place of residence, data all of which are unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published at
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff by means of his
image and personal data indicated and its direct link with an episode of
gender-based violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, assumes that the loss of
anonymity violated both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the
emission of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent
that some reserved data, pertaining to his private life (which went to the Internet
to initiate a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking in
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they came to have it from the moment
that anyone who viewed those news programs and who resided in the
locality of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of the crimes added the moral damage
consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public”. (emphasis ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in view of the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or the name and surnames.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

SAW

8/17

Balance between the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information and the Right

Fundamental to the Protection of Personal Data.

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the party claimed
published, on the website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge
of a victim of a multiple violation, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined in the case law, of endowing
prevalence of one fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.
The conciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European mandates such conciliation in article 85 of the RGPD.

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronted
with other rights and freedoms does not allow in any case and with full extent the same,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually give it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a very young woman who has suffered a multiple violation. In
In the published recording, she is heard recounting, with a great emotional charge, the
sexual assault suffered in all its crudeness, narrating (...).

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the condition of victim of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of the crime foresees a special need of protection to the
victims of crimes against sexual freedom or sexual indemnity, as well as
victims of violent crimes, both circumstances that concur in the alleged
examined.

In this case, the situation of the victim (who is not in the
same level of equality as the accused) and what it means to spread your voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without restricting the provision of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable on the form, the
means in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate effect on the data
personal information and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the evident informative public interest in the news is not denied,
given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not about
to decay the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been solved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, the distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the account of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, by all STC 58/2018 of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of
that their subjective rights of personality are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, their maximum level of legitimating efficacy, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
grant general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures.

The STJUE (Second Chamber) of February 14, 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs
Buivids mentions various criteria to weigh between the right to respect for
privacy and the right to freedom of expression, among which are “the
contribution to a debate of general interest, the notoriety of the person concerned, the
object of the report, the previous behavior of the interested party, the content, the form and
the repercussions of the publication, the form and the circumstances in which it was obtained
information and its veracity (see, in this sense, the judgment of the ECHR of 27
June 2017, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

In such a way, that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be so not only because of the person who intervenes, but also because of the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must be met, resulting, the greater the
abundance of what is meant in the previous section, which in the case examined
the victim is not a public person; quite the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may involve a new penalty
to the one already suffered. The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, so
way that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in the
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
need does not extend to the provision of data that identifies the victim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) ruling 697/2019, of 19
of December 2019, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor does it justify,
that affects the fundamental right to one's own image [in this case, to the protection
of personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not keep the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

7th

All data controllers have conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the RGPD and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, as far as what interests us, the proactive responsibility,
article 5.2 of the RGPD, the assessment of the risks and the implementation of the measures
adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
the case we are examining, this is particularly sensitive.

Such obligations do not decay by finding us before a data controller.
be a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
in identifiable being able to be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that it makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very probable risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases.
dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to
that with the diffusion of the victim's voice, she is once again condemned to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

viii

Processing of excessive data

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, the respondent party is deemed to have processed data that was excessive
as they are not necessary for the purpose for which they were processed.

The known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, with the scope expressed in the
Previous grounds of law, which, if confirmed, could lead to the
commission of the offense typified in article 83.5, section a) of the RGPD, which under
the heading “General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines”
provides that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Infractions considered very serious.

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

IX

Classification of the infraction

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case effective,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In an initial assessment, the graduation criteria are considered concurrent
following:

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the RGPD:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: The Agency considers that the
nature of the infringement is very serious since it entails a loss of
provision and control over personal data to a person who has been a victim of
a violent crime and against sexual integrity and that by disseminating your personal data
the condemnation again to be recognized by third parties, causing serious damage and
damages.

- Article 83.2.b) of the RGPD.

Intentionality or negligence in the infringement: Although the Agency considers that it does not
there was intent on the part of the communication medium, the Agency concludes that
was negligent in failing to ensure a procedure that guaranteed the protection of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

personal data in such sensitive circumstances, especially when in many
Sometimes the voice is distorted in the news so that it is not recognized
to the person speaking.

- Article 83.2.g) of the RGPD.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is a serious detriment to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

The amount of the fine that would correspond, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, is €50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START A SANCTIONING PROCEDURE FOR RADIO TELEVISION
MADRID, S.A. with NIF A87645719, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT B.B.B. and, as secretary, to C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data in the actions prior to the start of this sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be €50,000 (fifty thousand euros), notwithstanding
of what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to RADIO TELEVISION MADRID, S.A. with
NIF A87645719, granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate. In its
Allegation brief must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears
at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the penalty would be established at €40,000 (forty thousand euros),
resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €40,000 (forty thousand euros), and its payment will imply
the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at €30,000 (thirty thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above €40,000 (forty thousand euros), or €30,000 (thirty thousand euros),
You must make it effective by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the
banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number
of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-110422

>>
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

SECOND: On May 10, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 30,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00198/2022, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to RADIO TELEVISION MADRID,
S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-240122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

