1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00309/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 30, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter referred to as the claimant),
through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed in
*** ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the provisions of
the personal data protection regulations.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents provided
by the claimant are as follows:

“He has placed a video camera from the corridor of his warehouse that gives direct access to
our corral, and focused on the back of our family home that belongs
to my mother C.C.C. (...), and focused I say directly to the bathroom and the kitchen, as well as said
corral and my lot [...]”

Attach photographic report of the location of the camera.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD) delivering the notification on
07/17/2020.

No response has been received from the respondent.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 16
September 2020.

FOURTH: On December 10, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of
these data and by which Directive 95/46/CE (hereinafter, RGPD) is repealed,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD).

FIFTH: On December 30, 2020, this Agency received a document
of the claimant in which, in summary, it indicates that it has not placed any camera

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

video on your property, and considers that the complaint is a consequence of the conflict
neighborhood between both parties and whose trial is scheduled for March 2021.
He indicates that he is left defenseless by not having been provided with the documentation
in the file.
For this reason, this Agency sent him a copy of the aforementioned file. What
response to this referral, the respondent confirms its previous allegations
indicating that the photographs do not attest to the date they were taken, being
perfectly compatible with their placement by the claimant when he made the
facts of the complaint filed with the Civil Guard on August 14, 2018.
Likewise, it indicates that an amicable agreement has been reached with the claimant in the
trial against him.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On June 30, 2020, a claim was filed with this Agency
because «He has placed a video camera from the corridor of his warehouse that gives
straight to our corral, and focused on the back of our family home that
belongs to my mother C.C.C. (...), and focused I say directly to the bathroom and the kitchen, like this
like said corral and my lot […]”

SECOND: It is identified as the main person in charge Ms. B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1.

THIRD: The respondent indicates that she has not placed any video camera in her
property, and considers that the complaint is a consequence of the neighborhood conflict between
both parties.

Likewise, it provides a copy of the document addressed to the Court that indicates "(...) that
having reached an agreement in the procedure that was exposed orally in
the act of the view, the content of the text of the same is attached so that it is
embodied in the order homologating the transaction that puts an end to the lawsuit (...)”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

On June 30, 2020, this Agency received a claim from the complainant
through which it is reported that «He has placed a video camera from the
corridor of his warehouse that leads directly to our corral, and focused on the back
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

of our family home that belongs to my mother C.C.C. (...), and focused I say
directly to the bathroom and the kitchen, as well as to said corral and to my lot […]»

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides that personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation.

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding intimidating
neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control transit areas
of them without just cause.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations, as this is
exclusive jurisdiction of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

III

On March 19, 2021, a written statement was received from the party
denounced by means of which he states that he has not put any security camera
video on your property, and considers that the complaint is a consequence of the conflict
neighborhood between both parties.

Likewise, it provides a copy of the document addressed to the Court that indicates "(...) that
having reached an agreement in the procedure that was exposed orally in
the act of the view, the content of the text of the same is attached so that it is
embodied in the order homologating the transaction that puts an end to the lawsuit (...)”.

Examined the file as a whole, it has not been sufficiently accredited
that the claimed party had a video surveillance system installed in its
property and capture images of the adjoining property of the claimant.

IV

Based on the foregoing, it cannot be concluded that there are
video surveillance on the property of the defendant, so that it is not possible to speak of
infringing conduct within the scope of the regulatory framework of protection
data, which is why we proceed to file this procedure.

The parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake and must avoid
instrumentalize institutions in matters beyond their competence,
having to adjust the relationships between them to the minimum requirements of the
good neighbor rules

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. NIF ***NIF.1.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

