

Bonn/Berlin, January 31, 2019


Press release 04/2019


  Ceremony for the change of office at the BfDI
The handover ceremony at the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information took place today in front of more than 200 invited guests. Both the previous incumbent Andrea Voßhoff and her successor Ulrich Kelber emphasized the importance of strong data protection in the age of digitization.

Despite snow flurries and the resulting traffic chaos, more than 200 national and international guests found their way to the Bonn Redoute for the ceremony on the occasion of the handover of office at the BfDI.
In his inaugural speech, Ulrich Kelber looked directly to the future: On the one hand, digitization obliges the data protection supervisory authorities and thus also the BfDI to sensitize people even more to the topic of data protection. On the other hand, the new possibilities of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) must be used consistently in practice in order to protect those affected as best as possible. He specified this in such a way that he thinks less of data processing at the baker on the corner, who is often quoted in connection with the GDPR. Rather, the focus must be placed above all on the large international IT companies that already process more of our data than most people can imagine. We are not far away from the fact that not only every human action, but also inaction is recorded, stored and analyzed. The tasks for data protection will certainly continue to grow.
In her farewell speech, the second guest of honor, Andrea Voßhoff, also warned of the importance of data protection and at the same time criticized the fact that data protection is still often misused as a scapegoat to justify supposed incapacity to act, the causes of which actually lie elsewhere.
Looking back on her term of office, Ms Voßhoff was pleased that on the one hand it had been possible to set up the BfDI as a completely independent supreme federal authority and to further strengthen it in terms of personnel and finances. On the other hand, the entry into force of the GDPR was of course a milestone for data protection in Germany and throughout Europe. Where data flows are global, data protection must also be international!, says Voßhoff. The GDPR is a correct and important step here.
In addition to the speeches by Ms. Voßhoff and Mr. Kelber, the Lord Mayor of Bonn, Ashok Sridharan, and the first Federal Data Protection Commissioner, Prof. Dr. Hans-Peter Bull the word. In his keynote speech, Prof. Bull looked back on the office's more than forty-year history and pointed out that the topic of data protection has always been in conflict with government and economic interests in the most extensive data processing possible.
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information is an independent supreme federal authority with currently 180 employees. He is elected by the German Bundestag for five years.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











