
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    01/18/2022
                                Press conference "Best of Freedom of Information" 2021On January 18, 2022, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) invited to his annual press conference "Best of Freedom of Information - Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate in 2021". Key topics of the year were also out View of freedom of information Corona and the flood on the Ahr, but also a number of cases from the everyday life of the LfDI were presented.The state representative, Prof. Dieter Kugelmann, emphasized: "Maintaining transparency and freedom of information means a lot with small efforts in simple cases to do, but that's exactly what we often do to help the citizens."  Due to the Corona situation, the press conference took place virtually, as it did last year.
The state representative reported on the most exciting and interesting cases from his mediation and consulting work in the area of freedom of information in 2021. Numerous freedom of information applications had a content connection to social events this year as well. As in the previous year, a large number of inquiries related to the corona pandemic. For example, citizens applied for access to the current number of corona cases, existing intensive care bed capacities and information on the Corona Control Ordinance of the State of Rhineland-Palatinate. The flood disaster also created a strong need for information among the population. An applicant asked several municipalities about the siren warning systems installed there, another person wanted to know how and according to what guidelines the evacuation on the Ahufer was carried out.
Prof. Kugelmann makes it clear: “We very much hope that the flood disaster will never repeat itself and that the pandemic will subside. But efforts to ensure administrative transparency in Rhineland-Palatinate are and will remain an ongoing task.
The table template with the most exciting and interesting cases from 2021 can be found at https://s.rlp.de/boif21tvMore information on the rights to access information in connection with the corona pandemic can be found on our website at https://www .datenschutz.rlp.de/de/themenfelder-themen/corona-datenschutz/
                                return
                            



