1/12

 File No.: PS/00445/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 07/07/2020 it had entry in the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data a claim directed against SPHERE CAPITAL AGENCY OF
VALUES, S.A. (in XXXXXXXX), with CIF A04791943 (hereinafter, SPHERE
CAPITAL or claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following:

"1. Being an investment services company, regulated by the legislation of the
Stock Market, should have a Data Protection Officer. this figure already
does not exist in the Entity.

2. No Data Protection Impact Assessment has been carried out.

3. There is no Code of Conduct in accordance with the provisions of article 40 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

4. […]” (At this point the claimant makes a complaint about the alleged
improper communication of your personal data to third parties).

CAPITAL SPHERE A.V. is part of a Business Group, also formed by SPHERE
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT SGIIC S.A.U. and VISUAL CHART GROUP S.L."

With your claim, you only provide emails to document the
improper communication of data referred to in point 4 of your claim.

The claimant, in different writings, has made a claim against the other
entities of the business group, mentioned above, requesting that the
confidentiality of the claims “for fear of retaliation from the company”.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed on 08/12/2020, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 65.4 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). In this
transfer process, the respondent was asked to provide, among other things, the information and/or
or following documentation:

“- If DPD has been appointed and the Spanish Protection Agency has been notified
of data.
- Copy of the impact assessment carried out or, where appropriate, the reasons why
It is not performed".
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

On 09/07/2020, the Data Protection Agency received a letter of
response, submitted by LIBERA DIGITAL CONSULTORÍA TECNOLÓGICA, S.L.
(hereinafter LIBERA DIGITAL) on behalf of the claimed entity.

This document states that the defendant is in the process of closing and without
activity since May 2020, although, despite this, they have decided to dispense with the
person dealing with personal data management and outsourcing the function,
which has been entrusted to LIBERA DIGITAL with the task of evaluating the application
regulations and data security.

Regarding the lack of a data protection delegate, it indicates that the company, due to its
characteristics is not identified with any of the cases regulated in article 34 of
the LOPDGDD. It is, as he indicates, a small company that has created a
finance control program with general and small information
scale. And he ends by noting that, if necessary, he will register a DPD.

To improve the management of personal data, it will be checked every two months by
the external entity, a report has been prepared on compliance with the regulations and
Measures have been taken to improve the deficiencies, as well as the safety of the
data.

Finally, it points out that, as a sign of its commitment, it encloses a report
on the technical structure of the company, an impact assessment and a report
about the data processing it performs. It is concluded that there are no risks in the
Resources used.

In the documentation provided, LIBERA DIGITAL is identified as DPD of the
claimed entity.
 
Attach the following documentation:

1. Protocol of action for the exercise of the rights of the interested party (articles 15
to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, General Data Protection Regulation, in
hereinafter GDPR); and application form for the exercise of rights.
2. Document called "Risk Analysis" (in duplicate).
3. Document called “Regulatory compliance report”.
4. Document called “Technical and organizational structure of the company”.
5. Document called “Basic data processing”.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by agreement of the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection dated 03/11/2020.

FOURTH: On 06/08/2021, the Official State Gazette published the
Resolution of the National Securities Market Commission of 05/14/2021, by which
the publication of the revocation and simultaneously the deregistration of the Registry is arranged
Administrative of the aforementioned Commission to SPHERE CAPITAL, as a consequence of the
request for voluntary resignation to the authorization presented by the administrators
bankruptcy appointed by court order, within the procedure of
ordinary contest

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

FIFTH: On 07/01/2021, by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
access to the information related to the claimed that appears in the RMC. I know
verifies that the entity was established in 2014 and is currently “in
XXXXXXXX”. As corporate purpose is indicated:
 
The Company shall have as its exclusive corporate purpose the development of activities
allowed to Securities Agencies as investment services companies by the
article 143 of Law 4/2015”.

SIXTH: Dated 08/02/2021, by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
the Register of Data Protection Delegates of the AEPD is accessed and
verifies that, as of that date, there is no DPO designated by the entity
claimed.

SEVENTH: On 08/16/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed entity, in accordance with
to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 37.1 of the RGPD in relation to the
article 34.1 of the LOPDGDD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD and article 71
of the LOPDGDD; stating in said agreement that the sanction that could
to correspond would be a warning, without prejudice to what results from the investigation.

In the same agreement to open the procedure, the claimed entity was warned
that if it did not make allegations within the stipulated period, said agreement could be
considered resolution proposal, according to what is established in article 64.2.f) of the
LPACAP.

The notification of the opening agreement sent to SPHERE CAPITAL by the Secretariat
General of the AEPD, through the Electronic Notifications Service and Address
Electronic Enabled, it was expired.

EIGHTH: On 09/23/2021, this Agency received a letter from the entity
claimed in which he states that he could not access the electronic notification of the
agreement to open the procedure due to a problem with the certificate. requested that
said agreement was incorporated again into the “Citizen Mailbox”.

In response to this letter, on the same date of 09/23/2021, the General Secretariat
of the AEPD informed the respondent that the aforementioned agreement was
accessible from the General Access Point (www.060.es) and from the web portal of the
AEPD itself and the corresponding link was inserted, with details of the data that
should be entered to get the document.

There is no record in this Agency of any brief of allegations presented by the respondent
in connection with this proceeding.

NINTH: On 10/22/2021, the instructor of the procedure formulated
resolution proposal in the sense that by the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection is addressed warning against the claimed entity, by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

infringement of article 37.1 of the RGPD in relation to article 34.1 of the LOPDGDD,
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD and article 71 of the LOPDGDD, and qualified
as serious for prescription purposes in article 73, letter v), of the LOPDGDD.

TENTH: Notification of the aforementioned proposed resolution, dated 11/08/2021, received
letter from the Bankruptcy Administrator of the claimed entity in which he informs that
this entity agreed, on 03/30/2019, the appointment of a DPO, who was
duly communicated to this Agency.

With his arguments, he provides a copy of the reception receipt issued by the
General Register of Data Protection, dated 04/12/2019. Through this letter,
This Agency informs the requested entity of its inclusion in the list provided for in the
article 34.4 of the LOPDGDD of the information corresponding to the DPD designated by
the same.

ELEVENTH: The Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection collected
the records corresponding to the registration of the DPD appointed by the entity
claimed, verifying that the registration dated 04/12/2019 is recorded and that, after
request of said entity, caused withdrawal on 06/03/2020.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The company SPHERE CAPITAL was established in 2014 with the following
corporate purpose: “The Company shall have as its exclusive corporate purpose the development of the
Activities permitted to Securities Agencies as brokerage service companies
investment by article 143 of Law 4/2015”.

SECOND: sphere capital has stated before this Agency that it is in the process of
closure and no activity since May 2020. According to the information in the
RMC, this entity is currently “at XXXXXXXX”.

THIRD: On 05/14/2021, SPHERE CAPITAL has terminated as an agency
of securities in the Registry of the National Securities Market Commission, by
voluntary resignation to the authorization presented by the insolvency administrators
of the company, which is located “in XXXXXXXX”.

FOURTH: SPHERE CAPITAL notified this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data the designation of a DPO, who was registered in the corresponding list in
date 04/12/2019, having been removed from said registry on 06/03/2020, to
request of said entity.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP establishes that the agreement to initiate a
The sanctioning procedure will be notified to the interested party, stating in said
notification that, if you do not make allegations about the content, it may be
considered motion for a resolution when it contains a precise pronouncement
about the imputed liability.

“f) Indication of the right to make allegations and to be heard in the procedure and of the
deadlines for its exercise, as well as the indication that in case of not making allegations in
the term established on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered
motion for a resolution when it contains a precise pronouncement on the
imputed responsibility”.

In this case, the agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure referred to
this article, warning the entity claimed about the consequences of not
make claims. Said Agreement contains a precise pronouncement on the
responsibility of the claimed entity: the offending conduct is specified, the type
sanctioning entity in which it was subsumable, the circumstances of the responsibility
described and the sanction that, in the opinion of the AEPD, should be imposed, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
  
Thus, in consideration of the foregoing and in accordance with the provisions of article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the agreement to initiate this proceeding was considered
Resolution Proposal, since said initial agreement was notified to the
claimed and it has not submitted a brief of arguments.

III

In the present case, the claim made questions the actions of the entity
claimed in relation to the following four issues:

. The lack of designation of a data protection delegate.
. Not having carried out an impact assessment.
. Not having a code of conduct.
. An alleged communication to third parties of personal data relating to the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

It should be noted in this regard that the claimant only provided documentation
in relation to the matter mentioned in point 4 above.

That being the case, the claim must be rejected in relation to the fact that the
claimed does not have an impact assessment related to data protection,
because it is not possible to admit generic claims that do not provide any indication of
infringement.

Regarding the provision of a code of conduct, it should be specified that the article
40 of the RGPD does not configure this issue as an obligation of those responsible and
in charge of the treatment, nor the breach of the provisions of this article
classifies as an infringement in article 83 of the RGPD.
  
In relation to the last issue mentioned, on the alleged improper communication
of the personal data referred to by the claimant in his writing, it is not
possible to assess the existence or not of this possible illicit communication of the data,
taking into account the confidentiality requested by the claimant regarding his
claim. The impossibility of communicating to the claimed person the identity of the person and
of the alleged facts would prevent the person responsible from presenting the allegations and using
the means of defense that it deems appropriate. The right to presumption of
innocence, recognized in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, must govern without
exceptions in the sanctioning system and must be respected in the imposition
of any sanctions, since the exercise of the ius puniendi in its various
manifestations is conditioned to the game of the test and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Consequently, it is appropriate to analyze only the question relating to the obligation to
the claim to appoint a data protection officer.

IV

Article 37 of the RGPD, whose rubric is entitled "Appointment of the delegate of
data protection” provides that:

"1. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will designate a delegate of protection of
data provided that:

a) the treatment is carried out by a public authority or body, except the courts that
act in the exercise of their judicial function;

b) the main activities of the person in charge or the person in charge consist of operations of
processing that, due to its nature, scope and/or purposes, require observation
habitual and systematic large-scale data subjects, or

c) the main activities of the person in charge or the person in charge consist of the treatment to
large-scale special categories of data under article 9 or personal data
relating to convictions and criminal offenses referred to in article 10.

2. A business group may appoint a single data protection delegate provided
that is easily accessible from each establishment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

3. When the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment is an authority or organization
public, a single data protection delegate may be appointed for several of these
authorities or bodies, taking into account their organizational structure and size.

4. In cases other than those referred to in section 1, the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment or associations and other bodies representing categories of
Those responsible or in charge may designate a data protection delegate or must
designate it if required by the law of the Union or of the Member States. The delegate of
data protection may act on behalf of these associations and other organizations that
represent managers or managers.

5. The data protection delegate will be appointed according to their qualities
professionals and, in particular, to their specialized knowledge of law and practice in
matters of data protection and their ability to perform the functions indicated in
article 39.

6. The data protection delegate may be part of the staff of the person in charge or of the
in charge of the treatment or perform its functions within the framework of a contract of
services.

7. The person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment will publish the contact details of the delegate
of data protection and will communicate them to the control authority”.

And, by virtue of the authorization conferred by section 4 of the previous precept, the
Article 34 of the LOPDGDD determines, in relation to the appointment of a delegate
of data protection, the following:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment must designate a delegate of
data protection in the cases provided for in article 37.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and, in any case, in the case of the following entities:

[…]

h) Investment services companies, regulated by the Stock Market legislation
Values.

[…]

2. Those responsible or in charge of the treatment not included in the previous paragraph may
voluntarily designate a data protection delegate, who will be subject to the
regime established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and in this organic law.

3. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment will communicate within ten days to the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection or, where appropriate, to the regional authorities of
data protection, designations, appointments and dismissals of the delegates of
data protection both in the cases in which they are obliged to designate
as in the case where it is voluntary.

4. The Spanish Data Protection Agency and the regional protection authorities
of data will maintain, within the scope of their respective competences, an updated list of
data protection delegates that will be accessible by electronic means.

5. In the fulfillment of the obligations of this article, those responsible and in charge of the
treatment may establish the full or part-time dedication of the delegate, between
other criteria, depending on the volume of processing, the special category of data
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

treaties or the risks to the rights or freedoms of the interested parties”.

The aforementioned precepts establish the obligation of those responsible and in charge of
treatment, in certain cases, of designating the figure of the delegate of
Data Protection. In the cases that concern a business group, it is allowed
the possibility of appointing a single data protection delegate, whenever it is
accessible from each establishment. This figure must meet the requirements
determined in article 37.5 of the RGPD and 35 of the LOPDGDD, will hold the
position that is included in article 38 of the RGPD and 36 of the LOPDGDD and
will perform the functions established in article 39 of the RGPD.

The mandatory assumptions will be those listed in article 37.1.a), b) and c) and
when so required by the Law of the Union or of the Member States. In this
sense, the LOPDGDD has established, in its article 34, a list of entities that,
acting as responsible or in charge, they will be obliged to designate a delegate
of data protection.

With regard to the specific case that is the subject of this proceeding, as stated in the
the data held in the Mercantile Registry, the corporate purpose of the company claimed
was the development of the activities allowed to the Securities Agencies, such as
investment services companies, by article 143 of the Consolidated Text of the
Stock Market, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 4/2015, of October 23.

The aforementioned precept provides the following:

“The following are investment services companies:
a) Securities companies.
b) Securities agencies.
c) Portfolio management companies.
d) Financial advisory companies”.

In turn, in the Report included in the last annual accounts presented by the
company, those relating to the 2018 financial year (which are included in the actions),
It was expressly stated that “The Company is governed by its Bylaws, by the Royal
Decree 217/2008, of February 15 on the Legal Regime of the companies of
investment services and other entities that provide investment services and their
successive modifications, by Royal Decree 4/2015 of October 23 (Text
recast of the Securities Markets Law) and by the various circulars of the
National Securities Market Commission that develops it”.

Regarding the activity carried out, the Report itself states:

"The Company's exclusive corporate purpose is the development of the activities permitted to
Securities Agencies as investment services companies established by the Real
Decree 217/2008, of February 15, on the legal regime of service companies
investment.

The activities contemplated in its corporate purpose may be carried out by the Company,
in accordance with the applicable regulations, both nationally and internationally
(according to the regulations in this regard), these being the following:

Investment Services:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

- The reception and transmission of client orders in relation to one or more instruments
financial.
- Execution of said orders on behalf of clients.
- Discretionary and individualized management of investment portfolios in accordance with the mandates
conferred by customers.
- Placement of financial instruments not based on a firm commitment.
- Investment advice.

Auxiliary services:

- Custody and administration on behalf of clients of the instruments provided for in the RD
217/2008, of February 15.
- Advising companies on capital structure, industrial strategy and issues
as well as advice and other services in relation to mergers and acquisitions
of companies.
- The preparation of investment reports and financial analyzes or other forms of
general recommendation regarding operations on financial instruments.
- Foreign exchange services related to the provision of investment services.

Investment/auxiliary services on instruments not contemplated in article 2 of the
TRLMV:

- Reception and transmission of orders on behalf of third parties in pension plans
(Article 4.1. of RDL 1/2002).
- Advice on investments in pension plans (Article 4.1. of RDL 1/2002).
- The promotion of pension plans (Article 4.1. of RDL 1/2002).
- Discretionary management of portfolios with pension plans (Article 4.1. of RDL 1/2002).

Activities that involve extension of the business:

- Training activity: Courses and training sessions on markets and products
as well as the strategies and tools necessary to function in the
world of financial markets.

Therefore, and despite what was stated by the respondent in his letter of 09/07/2020,
of reply to the transfer of the claim, it is clear that the company was a
"Securities Agency" that held the status of investment service company and
would therefore be obliged to appoint a data protection delegate, since
which is included in the assumption included in article 34.1.h) of the LOPDGDD before
transcribed.

This designation of the data protection officer and his contact details must
be published and communicated to this Data Protection Agency in accordance with
article 37.7 of the RGPD and article 34.3 of the LOPDGDD.

In this case, despite the full applicability of the GDPR since 05/25/2018 and the
validity of the LOPDGDD since 12/07/2018, it is stated that the claimed entity does not
fulfilled the obligations indicated above until 04/12/2019,
date on which the DPO designated by it was included in the register
corresponding, whose appointment had been agreed on 03/30/2019.

Consequently, in accordance with the exposed evidence, available in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

moment in which the opening of the procedure takes place, the aforementioned facts
a violation of the provisions of article 37 of the RGPD, in relation to article
34 of the LOPDGDD, which gives rise to the application of the corrective powers that the
Article 58 of the aforementioned Regulation grants the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
data.

v

In the event that there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD, between the
corrective powers available to the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
as a control authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the
following:

“2 Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;”
(...)
d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations be
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a given
manner and within a specified time;
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in letter d)
above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83, the aforementioned GDPR provides for the possibility of
punish with a warning, in relation to what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed constituted a
disproportionate burden for a natural person, instead of sanction by fine can
impose a warning. However, special attention must be paid to the nature,
gravity and duration of the infraction, to its intentional nature, to the measures taken to
mitigate the damages suffered, the degree of responsibility or any infraction
previous pertinent, to the way in which the supervisory authority had knowledge of the
infraction, to the fulfillment of measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, to the
adherence to codes of conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance”.

SAW

Failure to comply with the provisions of articles 37 of the RGPD and 34 of the
LOPDGDD, supposes the commission of an infraction typified in section 4.a) of the
article 84 of the RGPD, which under the heading “General conditions for the imposition
of administrative fines” provides the following:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
43; [...]”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73, letter v), of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years, the infractions that suppose a substantial violation
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

v) Failure to comply with the obligation to appoint a data protection officer when
their appointment is required in accordance with article 37 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the
article 34 of this organic law”.

In the present case, it is considered appropriate to address a warning to the respondent,
in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in relation to the
indicated in Considering 148, cited above.

It is taken into account, in particular, that, according to what appears in the Annual Report and in
the Audit Report that accompanies the annual accounts corresponding to the
financial year 2019, the company responsible was intervened by the CNMV from 20
March 2020 and requested the voluntary bankruptcy, finding
currently “in XXXXXXXX”, according to the information available in the
Central Mercantile Registry; and is deregistered from the Registry of the Commission
National Securities Market, by voluntary waiver of the authorization submitted
by bankruptcy administrators.

On the other hand, the infringement may lead to the imposition of the person responsible for the
obligation to adopt measures to adjust its actions to the aforementioned regulations
in this act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD,
according to which each control authority may "order the person in charge or in charge
of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period […]”.

However, for the same reason stated, that is, considering the cessation of activity
of the claimed, it is not considered appropriate in this case, the application of the provisions of
the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

FIRST: ADDRESS A WARNING to the entity SPHERE CAPITAL AGENCY
OF SECURITIES, S.A. (in XXXXXXXX), with CIF A04791943, for an infraction of the
article 37.1 of the RGPD in relation to article 34.1 of the LOPDGDD, typified in
article 83.4 of the RGPD and article 71 of the LOPDGDD, and classified as serious to
effects of prescription in article 73, letter v), of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity SPHERE CAPITAL
SECURITIES AGENCY, S.A. (in XXXXXXXX).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

