 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, February 1, 2019

 

press release

 

Safe on the Internet - digital services in the data protection check

on Safer Internet Day 2019

The Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) will deal with a special

participate in their testing campaign on Safer Internet Day (SID) on February 5, 2019 and

scrutinize net services. The aim is to determine whether the

Websites that are accessed by millions of German citizens every day

handle user passwords. The results of the investigation will be

subsequently published on the BayLDA website.

 
 

 

Cyber security at Safer Internet Day 2019

Under the motto "Together for a better internet", the Safer Internet Day offers many institutions the

ability to start their own activities and contribute to a secure Internet. As part of the initiative

"Data protection goes to school" by the professional association of data protection officers in Germany (BvD) e.V.

the BayLDA is once again participating in awareness-raising events for schoolchildren at the SID 2019. This is it

in particular to provide information on the topics of password protection, social networks and self-portrayal on the Internet.

The aim is to show young users what to look out for online and how to

protects his various accounts - and thus his digital identity - as well as possible.

The security of a user account with an online service with all the personal information stored there

However, onen does not depend solely on whether a user is aware and chooses a strong password, but

also on whether the company handles the user's data just as responsibly. The BayLDA

will therefore participate in the SID with another, more extensive campaign in addition to the recommendations for users:

Online services, which are called up by millions of German users every day, should be improved in terms of their security

must be examined more closely.

Although the BayLDA normally, due to its responsibility for the non-public area, websites

by Bavarian companies, it also examines online offers outside of the

Bavarian state border. A selection of the Internet services most used in Germany is presented on their

Safety examined, regardless of the location of the responsible company. In the data protection check "Cyber

security” the BayLDA controls how well the respective online service protects the digital identity of its users

protects. At least 20 prominent web services are selected for this, which have a top position in the ranking

of the most visited or top-selling websites in Germany.

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 27
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

In addition to the cyber security campaign, the BayLDA checks other websites to see whether users are transparent

the integration of third-party providers, in particular tracking tools, on the website and whether a

effective consent is obtained. The focus is on so-called cookie banners, which are usually

neither block scripts from tracking tools nor the requirements for an admissible consent according to the

comply with GDPR. At least 30 of the top websites of Bavarian companies are examined.

With the two data protection checks "cyber security" and "information", the BayLDA would like to

whether the "big" websites in particular meet the requirements of the GDPR for the protection of user data

implement accordingly. On February 5, 2019, once the investigations have been completed, the BayLDA will provide the most important information

Information on the results of these tests is available on its website:

 

www.lda.bayern.de

President of the BayLDA, Thomas Kranig, comments on the scheduled action as follows: "Reports on the publication

The publication of password lists on the Internet is no longer a rarity. Various websites have

reit specialized in offering services where users can check themselves whether their own login data

circulate on the net. So the legitimate question arises as to how well the security of online

offers is ordered. With our special campaign on Safer Internet Day we want to strengthen our cyber security

offensive and emphasize that cyber security is not only important, but also a legal requirement

tion from the data protection world. However, our test is intended to serve more than just gaining knowledge as to whether a

Online service adequately protects the access data of the users. Rather, we come to our obligation as

According to the data protection supervisory authority, compliance with data protection law by those responsible also specifically

check. For Bavarian websites where we identify violations of the GDPR through this check,

we will approach the responsible companies directly. If a violation is serious, threatens

fine proceedings against those responsible. For the other web services that are outside our responsibility

move, we will carry out the test including a report of the results in the event of violations to the responsible data protection authority

pass it on so that measures can be taken there.”

 

Thomas Kranig

president

