

Bonn/Berlin, January 08, 2020


Press release 01/2020


After a year in office, the BfDI draws its first interim balance - not data, but trust are the raw materials of the 21st century
Ulrich Kelber has been the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) for a year. He draws an overall positive balance of his first year in office and announces positions on important data protection issues for 2020.

Together with its employees, the BfDI has campaigned on various topics over the past year to preserve the informational self-determination of citizens:
Data protection is a basic legal protection that must be protected. As attractive as the new possibilities of big data, artificial intelligence and new data-driven business models may be: the focus must always be on people. Not as an object, but as a self-determined individual who always retains control over his data. We data protection officers will continue to work to ensure that this control and thus also trust in data processing is regained.
In 2019, the BfDI worked on important milestones such as the "Hambach Declaration of the Data Protection Conference on Artificial Intelligence" or the final declaration of the Data Ethics Commission. In addition, the implementation and enforcement of the GDPR was a focus of the BfDI. For example, he imposed the first fines on telecommunications providers.
In 2020, the BfDI wants to achieve, above all, that the GDPR is enforced more strongly at European level compared to the large IT companies. Important decisions by the European Court of Justice on international data transfers are expected here.
The BfDI also wants to set standards in the area of freedom of information and sets a constructive example:
My authority should exemplify what we demand of other federal authorities. That is why we have created a separate “Transparency” section on our website. The information already available here is to be expanded in the coming year to include additional categories, such as statements on legislative procedures.
Ulrich Kelber has been the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information since January 7, 2019. He is elected for a term of five years.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











