press release

Berlin, September 9, 2019

Data protection officers strengthen companies
BvD autumn conference discusses the effects of the changed naming
rules
Appeal after the easing of the appointment obligation for data protection officers (DPO).
Supervisory authorities and the professional association of data protection officers in Germany (BvD)
e.V. to the companies concerned, not to the data protection know-how of the DPOs
waive. Applications from the fields of artificial intelligence (AI), data tracking and
Scoring not only made the digital world highly complex in terms of data protection law
Field of work, said BvD CEO Thomas Spaeing. “Who through the relaxed
There is a risk that waiving the specialist knowledge of the data protection officer is not required to be named
To make mistakes."

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Baden-
Wuerttemberg, Dr. Stefan Brink, underlined after the first year data protection
Basic Regulation that the supervisory authorities intensified their control activities. "Data-
Protection officers are important contacts for us and the companies. you under-
support companies in positioning themselves in accordance with the law and thus save time and money
to save – not to mention any fines for violations.”

The President of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision, Thomas Kranig,
stated, “the federal legislature will unite the economy with the numerical easing
do a disservice. Would have been better to clarify what in a world where everyone with
Tablet and smartphone acts with constant employment is really meant. "

And the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection, Professor Thomas Petri,
te, “Reliable data protection has now become a trademark. Under-
who are now doing without a DPO are giving up an important part of their customer
trusty price."

Before the summer break, the federal government had initiated the amendment of the BDSG
directs, whereby the naming obligation for companies is to be "relaxed": After that
Private companies must then appoint a DPO if there are more than 20 people there at all times
are engaged in the processing of personal data. So far the border was closed
10 employees.

According to a survey by the specialist magazine “Datenschutz-Praxis”, those affected want
Companies 19 percent will no longer name a DPO in the future. 20 percent of the companies that
do not have to appoint a DPO under the new rule, but want their data protection organi-
do not change.

"Every second company affected by the new regulation has recognized how important it is
professional advice from a DPO," said Spaeing. Especially young companies
and start-ups that develop new technologies or offer internet services
he to appoint a DPO. “Young companies develop their ideas and products in
often in what appears to be a legal vacuum when it comes to data protection. But who the requirement

 1


 
 
press release
 
cannot meet the requirements of international partners or customers, quickly gets caught up in a
advertising disadvantage."
 
The core competencies of the data protection officers will also be the approximately 200 participants
employ, which on October 23rd and 24th under the motto "Economy meets supervision" at the mid-
the third BvD autumn conference, which is being held this year in Nuremberg
takes place. The BvD invites to the conference together with the data protection supervisory authorities
those of Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria. Other topics include: Connect
ted car, pre-employment screenings, binding corporate rules, cross-border data
traffic to non-EU countries, tracking, big data, fines, scoring, data breaches as well
lots of tips and tricks from everyday dealings with data protection
Basic Regulation (GDPR).
 
Speakers include the journalist and columnist Heribert Prantl from the Süddeutsche
schen Zeitung, the group data protection officer of Deutsche Bahn, Chris Newiger,
as well as the book author Stephan Orth. In a separate slot, the state authorities
assigned daily questions from the participants.
 
Bavaria's Minister of the Interior, Joachim Herrmann (CSU), will open the authorities' day on October 25th.
In addition to many topics from the everyday life of the authorities, it is also about the possibilities of the
technical data protection, the tasks of the DPOs, and data breaches in public
rich. The Youtuber and journalist Rayk Anders will be the day of the authorities with a keynote
close the other way.
 
 
 
Note for journalists:
You will receive a separate invitation to the BvD autumn conference and the authorities' day in Nuremberg.
The current program overview can be found at:
https://www.bvdnet.de/termin/bvd-herbstkonferenz-datenschutz-2019/
https://www.bvdnet.de/termin/behoerdentag-2019/
 
Your contact person:
BvD Press Office, Tel: 030 26 36 77 60, Budapester Strasse 31, 10787 Berlin
Email: pressestelle@bvdnet.de, Internet: https://www.bvdnet.de
Press Office Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision, Tel.: 0981/180093-0, Promenade
18, 91522 Ansbach, email: presse@lda.bayern.de, Internet: https://www.lda.bayern.de
Press Office LfDI Baden-Württemberg, Tel: 0711/615541-716, Königstraße 10 a, 70173 Stuttgart
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de, Internet: https://www.lfdi.bwl.de
Press Office BayLfD, Tel.: 089/2126720, Wagmüllerstraße 18, 80538 Munich, E-Mail: Posttel-
le@datenschutz-bayern.de, Internet: https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de
 
 
 
 
The BvD: The representation of interests of the data protection officers
The Professional Association of Data Protection Officers in Germany (BvD) e.V. promotes the professional interests of data
protection officers in authorities and companies and is actively involved in the further development and acceptance of the profession
"Data Protection Officer" - as the only professional association for data protection officers in Germany.

                                                                    2

