1/6

 File No.: EXP202102132

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated February 15, 2021, had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant), through which he makes a claim against the CITY COUNCIL OF
OPENING, with NIF P1000200D (hereinafter, the claimed part).

SECOND: In view of the foregoing, there are indications of a possible
breach of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation
of Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), which has motivated the opening of the
procedure with reference E/02978/2021.

In accordance with the provisions of article 65 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(LOPDGDD hereinafter), the claim was transferred to the person in charge or to the Delegate
of Data Protection that in his case would have designated, requiring him to send
to this Agency the requested information and documentation. This requirement
of information was not answered in time. The claim was admitted for processing
date May 28, 2021.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of the RGPD, and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the aforementioned LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: Within the framework of investigation actions E/06376/2021, it was sent to
the party claimed a request for information, regarding the claim
outlined in the first section, so that within a period of ten business days
before this Agency the information and documentation indicated therein. The
The request was registered as output on June 15, 2021 with number
O00007128s2100042495.

The request for information, which was carried out in accordance with the rules established
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected by the person in charge
dated June 15, 2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificate that works in
The file.

FIFTH: Regarding the required information, the respondent did not submit
any response to this Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

SIXTH: On September 21, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged
violation of Article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter
GDPR).

The aforementioned initial agreement was collected by the person in charge on September 22
of 2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificate that is in the file.

SEVENTH: Dated October 6, 2021 and entry registration number
O00007128e2100041303, the respondent files a brief with allegations and
attached documentation that is completed on October 7, 2021, with other
registered documents with entry registration number O00007128e2100041567.

With regard to this sanctioning procedure, which is followed by the lack
response to the information requirements made by this Agency in the
terms granted for this, states the following: "(...) the City Council, due to lack of
internal lawyer, did not respond to the request for information, which is a
pardonable fact given its lack of infrastructure and personnel, (...).”

In relation to the rest of the documents presented in the aforementioned entries to give
response to the request for information referred to in the fourth antecedent, will be
incorporated to be analyzed within the framework of the investigation actions of the
procedure E/06376/2021.

EIGHTH: On October 20, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
imposed on the CITY COUNCIL OF OPENING, with NIF P1000200D, for an infraction
of Article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of
warning.

Likewise, the procedure was revealed so that within a period of ten days
could allege whatever he considered in his defense and present the documents and
information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with article 89.2 of the
LPACAP.

NINTH: The motion for a resolution, which was registered as output on the 20th of
October 2021 with registration number O00007128s2100070685, was collected by the
responsible on October 22, 2021, as stated in the certificate of
Notific@ that works in the file.

After the period of ten business days granted in the resolution proposal for
the presentation of pleadings, the respondent party has not presented pleadings.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

FIRST: The information requirements indicated in the second background
and fourth were notified electronically, in accordance with the provisions of article
43 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: The respondent has not responded to the requests for information
carried out by the Agency within the periods granted for it, within the framework of the
actions referenced with code E/02978/2021, in which the deadline for
to respond was one month, and with the code E/06376/2021, in which the deadline for
reply was ten business days.

THIRD: The notification of the agreement to initiate this disciplinary proceeding
was carried out electronically through the Notific@ system, being collected by the
responsible on September 22, 2021.

FOURTH: The party complained against has presented the arguments to the agreement to initiate
this sanctioning file collected in the seventh antecedent.

FIFTH: The notification of the proposed resolution was sent electronically to
through the Notific@ system, being collected by the person in charge on the 22nd of
October 2021. No arguments were presented to the proposed resolution.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and solve this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for not having tried to
the Spanish Data Protection Agency the information it requested.

With the aforementioned conduct of the defendant, the power of investigation that the
Article 58.1 of the RGPD confers on the control authorities, in this case, the AEPD,
has been hampered.

Therefore, the events described in the "Events" section are deemed to constitute
an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 58.1 of the
RGPD, which provides that each control authority will have, among its powers of
research:

“a) order the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the person in charge or the person in charge, who provide any information
that it requires for the performance of its functions; b) carry out investigations in
form of data protection audits; c) carry out a review of the
certificates issued under article 42, paragraph 7; d) notify the
responsible or in charge of the treatment the presumed infractions of the present

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

Regulation; e) obtain from the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment access to
all personal data and all the information necessary for the exercise of their
functions; f) obtain access to all the premises of the person in charge and of the person in charge of the
processing, including any data processing equipment and means, of
in accordance with the procedural law of the Union or of the Member States.”

III

This infringement is typified in article 83.5.e) of the RGPD, which considers as such: "no
facilitate access in breach of article 58, section 1”.

In the same article it is established that this infraction can be sanctioned with a fine.
twenty million euros (€20,000,000) maximum or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to four percent (4%) as a maximum of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following conduct:

“ñ) Not facilitating the access of the personnel of the data protection authority
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the
exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the authority
of competent data protection.”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD provides the following:

IV

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, the aforementioned Regulation provides in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of directing a
warning. In this sense, article 77.1 c), 77.2 and 77.5 of the LOPGDD establishes
that:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article."

v

As regards the arguments presented by the respondent, collected
in the seventh antecedent, it is considered that it would not be justified to assess as
extenuating reasons alleged.

In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the fact that the respondent party has not
responded to the requests made cannot be excused for the lack of
alleged infrastructure and personnel, given the time elapsed since the application
effective of the RGPD and the consequent obligation to provide this Agency with the
information required for the performance of its functions. Also, the LPACAP
offers interested parties instruments such as the request to extend the deadlines
established, which could have been requested by the interested party before the expiration
of the term if it considered that the circumstances advised it and should be
studied by this Agency.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the OPENING CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P1000200D, by
an infringement of Article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the OPENING CITY COUNCIL.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

