 
 
 
 
 
 

711.437.1

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

February 5, 2021

 

 

 

Data protection officers from Berlin and Rhineland-Palatinate are showing unfounded attacks
the informational right of self-determination back - Smoltczyk and Kugelmann: Der
Data protection is a European success story
 
In an opinion piece, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, and the Rhineland-Palatinate State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, against the youngest
Attacks on privacy. “The pandemic shows how privacy is a scapegoat
to be used when things go wrong. Not a day goes by without it being said
that the pandemic is easy to get under control if we only protect data protection
trimmed down," said the data protection officers of Berlin and Rhineland-Palatinate.
The direction and undertone of a series of contributions to the social debate would give cause to
great concern and important facts were not sufficiently recognized.
“It is not a problem that the health authorities are still not all digital
infrastructure are connected. The problem is not that US services
want to reserve the right to use children's data for their own, mostly commercial, purposes
process. Instead, it is claimed that the data protection officers make learning easier for the children
want to ban.”
 
Data protection does not stand in the way of social challenges, say Smoltczyk
and Kugelman. It's about the achievements of digitization and the civic
Fundamental rights, which are the basis of our free and democratic society
protection. "Data protection is not a super fundamental right that stands above other fundamental rights,
but it is a fundamental right. And as a fundamental right, it is in a state of constant rebalancing
Interaction with the other fundamental rights. That the decision-makers are not concerned with that
making it easy is a good thing, because a free state based on the rule of law makes this a requirement, also and
especially in times of crisis."
 
Smoltczyk and Kugelmann emphasize: "Adequate data protection must not prevent the virus
fall victim. Data protection is not an obstacle, but an important regulator and
control factor. It contributes to acceptance and trust in the population. The
Data protection standard in the European Union, which is being imitated worldwide, must be considered a success
to be celebrated. You can be proud of this success.”
 
The full opinion piece can be downloaded here.

 
Responsible: Nadine Baumann

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

   