 
 
 
 
 
 

 
711.437.2

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P o u t t

 
By Maja Smoltczyk, Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and
Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
Rhineland-Palatinate
 
Stop the attacks on data protection!
 
It's an old familiar song. In difficult times, such as after a terrorist attack, when
dophile crimes are uncovered or now in the midst of the corona pandemic that is affecting our whole
turns the world upside down, the same tones are heard again and again: data protection must be relaxed
will! Data protection is criminal protection! Data protection endangers human life! And consistent
parts of the economy agree: Data protection is destroying the Internet! privacy
slow down digitization! Data protection prevents innovation! None of this is correct.
 
If you take a closer look at all this, it becomes clear that the knee-jerk blame on the
protection is nothing more than the cheap attempt to find a simple solution for complex problems.
to find solution. But this usually only distracts from the real problems. So ver-
The authorities responsible for averting danger and criminal prosecution certainly do not overdo it
too few monitoring tools or even too little data. It's often the opposite of that
fall and they are often no longer able, in terms of personnel and technology, to process the mass of information
to be evaluated in a timely manner and used in a meaningful way
to use.
 
Data protection does not break the Internet, but tries to do so throughout history
hard-fought basic human rights even in a time of all-encompassing digitization
to save in the future. The endless collection of personal data, tracking and data mining
are the order of the day. Where technical innovations are supposed to serve people,
it gives the impression that people - their data and profiles - serve the investors
and companies. Here things have to be brought together that threaten to fall apart
so that both can be saved - the achievements of digitization and the
fundamental rights that are the basis of our free and democratic society.
 
Blanket finger-pointing distracts from the real problems and converts
white around. Fundamental rights do not stand alone, but in an interrelationship with others
fundamental rights. With every restriction of fundamental rights, care must be taken to ensure that
this only happens to the extent absolutely necessary and only to the extent that the protection of others
fundamental rights it requires. So those who are in a certain situation must have the fundamental right to
want to restrict informational self-determination, provide convincing arguments for it,
so that such a consideration can take place. It may be tempting to
again and again as the actual problem, which criticizes data protection officials
and compulsion to justify. Adequate problem solving, however, is
prevents.
 

 
Internet: https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de

Email: mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: (030) 13889-0
Fax: (030) 13889 201

 



- 2 -

The pandemic has shown once again how data protection must serve as a scapegoat,
when things got out of control. Not a day goes by without it being said
that the pandemic is easy to get a grip on if we just fix data protection
would clip.
 
The fact that the health authorities are still not all connected to the digital infrastructure is not a problem.
structure are connected, which is a prerequisite for the Corona app to have a
has real added value for the offices. It is also not a problem that the offices with the
Data from Corona contact lists are already overwhelmed when the app
would have to collect much more data.
 
It is not a problem that hardly any commercial provider offers data protection-compliant solutions
offers and authorities are unable to create such solutions themselves or not
manage to demand appropriate solutions in tenders. is being problematized
nor that US services want to reserve the right to use data from children for
own, mostly commercial, purposes. Instead, it is claimed that the data
protectors want to forbid children to learn.
 
No matter how often it is claimed, it remains false: data protection is a social
not stand in the way of challenges. The Corona warning app was more than 25 years old in Germany
Downloaded millions of times and that's the only reason why it has such a high level of acceptance among the population
found because people can rely on their data not being too unpredictable
be misused for foreseeable purposes. In addition, it can be further developed in accordance with data protection
the. In other European countries where this is not the case, the situation is very different.
In France e.g. B. only a fraction of the people took part, which also contributed to the missing
trust and the lack of acceptance of the central technical solution used there. with his
n a data protection-compliant way, a distribution has succeeded in Germany, which is a significant
che prerequisite for achieving the goals of the Corona-Warnapp.
 
When data protectionists demand that the digitization of schools be carried out in accordance with data
must follow, this does not serve to prevent the digitization of schools, but rather
more of a sustainable development that achieves much more than digitization at any price:
The aim here is to give both the pupils and the teachers a
to create a protected space in which they can be sure that their data will not
needs and will eventually be used against them. And that's a major difference
which aims to convert our fundamental rights and thus our free society into a digital
save future.
 
No, data protection is not a super fundamental right that stands above other fundamental rights, but it is
a fundamental right. And as a fundamental right, it stands in an interplay that has to be constantly rebalanced.
relationship with the other fundamental rights. This is exactly why he will be there, especially in times of the pandemic,
where it is necessary, restricted again and again - be it in the collection of contact data by
drives or when exchanging data between health authorities and medical institutions
ments.
 
The debate about the right measures to take against the virus, especially with regard to data
protection must be managed more rationally and objectively again. So far it has been successful in Germany
not to throw fundamental rights overboard, even in the crisis, and to have a balanced
to determine whether and in which cases it is necessary to exercise a fundamental right in favor of another
limit theirs. It's a good thing that the decision-makers don't make it easy for themselves,

 



- 3 -

because this is a requirement that a free state based on the rule of law makes, even and especially in times of crisis.
We should always be aware of this.
 
Adequate data protection must not fall victim to the virus. We need the data
inoculate protection with confidence and protect it from baseless attacks. Instead of stepping
ranting about data protection, we should recognize its vital importance-
n: Data protection is not a hindrance, but an important regulator and control factor.
gate. People are more likely to engage with new technologies when they have confidence that their
rights and freedoms are preserved. If there is a risk of a loss of informational control,
People tend to withdraw into private life or give false information.
 
The European Union has recognized the potential of strong data protection and with a
radezu unbelievable effort, above all by the European Parliament
Data protection law created for all of Europe. With that she has a powerful sign for the
interpretation of one of the fundamental European fundamental rights, to which the rest of the
world no longer passes. Because she has recognized that the right to privacy in
The future of global digitization can only be maintained if the European states themselves
together and, as a common economic area, also share their ethical convictions
dig. Data protection is part of European values. With the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
GMO) a standard-setting law was passed. In quite a few parts of the world
is now being adopted in whole or in part. The GDPR has brought Europe forward:
The EU has proven itself here as a bastion of freedom and the rule of law and as a protective wall
gen attacks on privacy. We should be proud of that!

 

