DATA PROTECTION  ACT  2018  AND UK  GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION  REGULATION  

TO: Executive Office 

 

REPRIMAND 

OF: Castle Buildings 
 
Stormont Estate 
 
Belfast 
 
BT4 3SR 

 

 

 

 
 

 
The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
 
the Executive Office in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK General 
 
Data Protection Regulation in respect of certain infringements of the UK 
GDPR. 

   
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
In summary, on 22 May 2020 the Interim Advocate’s Office (IAO) sent a 
newsletter by email to 251 subscribers on its mailing list. The email 
 
addresses of the recipients were visible to all who received the email. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
The IAO was established following the findings and report of the Historical 
 
Institutional Abuse (HIA) Inquiry, which investigated abuse of children 
 
under 18 who were living in an institution in Northern Ireland between 
 
 
1922 and 1995. One of the overarching recommendations made from the 
 
Inquiry was the appointment of a statutory Commissioner for Survivors of 
 
Institutional Childhood Abuse (COSICA). The Head of the Civil Service 
tasked the Executive Office officials to draft primary legislation predicated 
 
on the Inquiry recommendations for a COSICA. Separately, officials were 
 
tasked with appointing an Interim Advocate for victims and survivors of 
 
HIA, as a precursor to the appointment of the statutory Commissioner. 
 
 
 
The Interim Advocate was subsequently appointed on 2 July 2019 and the 
 
IAO was established on 12 August 2019. 

 
 
   

 
 
 
 

 
   

 
 
 

   

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
At the time of reporting the breach the IAO described itself as an arm’s 
 
length organisation, sponsored by but otherwise independent of, the 
 
Executive Office. However, on 11 December 2020 the IAO ceased to exist 
as the COSICA was established. Following this and subsequent legal 
advice, the Executive Office clarified that the IAO was a constituent part 
 
of the Executive Office with no separate legal basis. Therefore, the 
 
Executive Office is the relevant Data Controller in relation to data 
processed by the IAO 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The reprimand 

 

 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to the Executive 
Office in respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 
 

 

 
  Article 5 (1)(f) which states: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
“Personal data shall be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate 
 
 
security of the personal data, including protection against unauthorised or 
 
unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, 
 
 
using appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
 
confidentiality’).”. 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  Article 24 (1) and (2) which states: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
“1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of 
 
 
processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood and severity for the 
 
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller shall implement 
 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure and to be 
 
able to demonstrate that processing is performed in accordance with this 
 
 
Regulation. Those measures shall be reviewed and updated where 
 
necessary. 
 
 
2. Where proportionate in relation to processing activities, the measures 
 
 
referred to in paragraph 1 shall include the implementation of appropriate 
 
data protection policies by the controller.”. 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  Article 32 (1) and (2) which states: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
“1. Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation 
 
and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the 
 
 
risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of 
 
natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement 
 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of 
 
security appropriate to the risk..”. 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
“2. In assessing the appropriate level of security account shall be taken in 
 
particular of the risks that are presented by processing, in particular from 
 
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised 
 
disclosure of, or access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise 
 
processed.”. 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  Article 5 (1) (f): 
 

 

 

 

 

 
The Commissioner considers that the IAO has failed to ensure appropriate 
 
security, resulting in the inappropriate disclosure of email addresses 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
relating to 209 individuals. Of those 209 email addresses, 110 email 
addresses contained the individuals’ full name and the remainder of the 
 
 
email addresses contained a mixture of formulations of names, such as 
 
 
 
 
initials or first and last name only. It is noted that the individuals may not 
 
be identifiable from the email addresses alone, however the email 
 
addresses could be used to identify individuals in combination with other 
 
information. 
  

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Commissioner considers that the IAO should have had a more secure 
 
process in place for the sending of group emails than inputting email 
 
addresses into the ‘To’ field and then copying them into the ‘bcc’ (blind 
 
 
carbon copy) field. 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  Article 24 (1) and (2): 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

The Commissioner considers that the IAO has failed to implement 
 
 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the security 
 
of personal data. There was no technical solution in place for the sending 
 
 
of group emails, such as mail merge. There was no documented process 
 
 
 
 
in place for the sending of the newsletter by group email and no training 
was provided to staff on the process. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Further to this, the IAO did not have appropriate data protection policies 
 
and procedures in place. The only data protection guidance available to 
 
staff was contained within an induction pack under the heading 
 
‘Procedures for Answering the Telephone’. The Commissioner considers 
 
that this guidance was inadequate in ensuring that staff were aware of 
 
 
their data protection responsibilities. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  Article 32 (1) and (2): 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

The Commissioner considers that the IAO has failed to implement 
 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of 
 
security appropriate to the risks associated with the processing in this 
 
context. The IAO was working within a highly sensitive sector involving 
 
HIA and therefore confidentiality was of the utmost importance. The lack 
 
of appropriate measures indicates that the IAO did not have sufficient 
 
consideration of the security of personal data and the risks to the rights 
 
 
and freedoms of data subjects. 
   

   
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that the IAO took 
 
immediate steps to inform all of those affected and to update them on the 
 
 
investigation into the breach. The IAO also issued an apology to all of 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
those affected and put emotional support arrangements in place to help 
 
those affected. 
 
 
 
Remedial steps taken by the IAO 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
 
taken by the IAO following this incident. The IAO reviewed its process for 
 
sending the newsletter by group email and Newsletter Desk Instructions 
 
were created and issued to staff on 8 July 2020 to provide guidance on 
 
   
issuing the newsletter by group email. 
  
 
A full review of the information management arrangements in place within 
 
the IAO was also carried out and on 1 July 2020, the Executive Office’s 
 
 
Data Protection Officer took responsibility for the IAO. Data protection 
 
and information management policies and procedures were developed as 
 
 
 
a matter of urgency and existing policies and procedures were reviewed. 
As part of this review, the IAOs Data Protection Impact Assessment was 
 
reviewed and updated in July 2020, to clarify that the Executive Office 
 
was the relevant Data Controller. 
  
 
Further to this, on 20 July 2020 the Executive Office circulated a report to 
 
 
 
the Northern Ireland Civil Service (NICS) Data Protection Officers’ Forum 
 
to ensure lessons learned are shared across the wider NICS. 
 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
 
issue a reprimand to the Executive Office in relation to the infringements 
  
of Article 5 (1)(f), Article 24 (1) and (2), and Article 32 (1) and (2) 
 
of the UK GDPR as set out above. 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

   

   

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

