

Bonn/Berlin, October 16, 2020


Press release 26/2020


BfDI elected to Executive Committee of Global Privacy Assembly
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, was yesterday elected to the steering committee of the international conference of data protection officers, the Global Privacy Assembly (GPA). Professor Kelber is pleased about the trust of his almost 140 international colleagues: In today's networked world we have to find common solutions. The election gives us the opportunity to contribute our European positions and perspectives. I will work to ensure that the GPA becomes an even more important voice in the global debate about data protection in the future.

Appropriately, the participants of the 42nd meeting agreed to publish joint statements on important global data protection issues outside of the conference in the future. In another resolution, the GPA calls for data protection-friendly solutions in connection with the Covid-19 pandemic, for example in contact tracing. Together with Hong Kong, Colombia and Great Britain, the BfDI launched a resolution that makes the use of artificial intelligence (AI) subject to conditions. If personal data is processed by an AI system, this should be transparent and non-discriminatory, among other things. In cases of doubt, an additional human check should be carried out.
Professor Kelber is the first German data protection officer to be a member of the Executive Committee since it was formally established. He was elected unanimously. The members are appointed for two years and can be re-elected once.
For more information, see the Global Privacy Assembly page
You can also find the resolutions of the 42nd GPA there.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











