1/55

 File No.: PS/00193/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), dated ***DATE.1,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter,
AEPD). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party reported that several media outlets published in
their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a rape
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very mediatic The complaining party provided links to the news published in
the claimed media websites.

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: Dated ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, being aware of the
following extremes:

During the investigation actions, publications were found, more than
those initially denounced by the complaining party, where the voice of the complainant could be heard
undistorted victim. Among them, the following publication by DIARIO ABC, S.L., with
NIF B82824194 (hereinafter, the claimed party or ABC):

- ***URL.1

On ***DATE.4, the defendant was notified of a precautionary withdrawal measure
urgent content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that
will be unidentifiable in the web address from which this was accessible
content.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/55

On ***DATE.5, a letter sent by this entity was received by the AEPD
reporting:

- That the video object of the requirement "has been provided by the Atlas Agency,
within the framework of an agreement for the provision of news content drawn up by the
own Atlas Agency, which includes both text and audiovisual material, and on the
that Diario ABC does not hold transformation rights.”

- That as soon as it has become aware of the AEPD's requirement, it has
proceeded to the immediate withdrawal of the video both on the web page indicated in the
requirement, as well as in the reply made on the website of the edition of
Seville from Diario ABC (***URL.2). It has also requested Google deindexation
of the url in which the video appeared.

- That it has informed the Atlas Agency of the requirement of the AEPD to act
consequently.

- That it keeps a copy of such content "for the purpose of safeguarding the evidence that
may become accurate in the course of the police or administrative investigation or the
judicial process that could be instructed.”

- That it has notified Vocento (the communication group to which ABC belongs) of the
requirement of the AEPD.

It was found that the news had been removed.

FOURTH: On April 27, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, classified as
in article 83.5.a).

The aforementioned initiation agreement was notified to the claimed party, in accordance with the rules
established in the LPACAP, on May 3, 2022.

FIFTH: With the registration date of May 6, 2022, the claimed party
requested a copy of the file, as well as an extension of the term to present
allegations.

On May 9, 2022, the file was forwarded to the defendant, granting the
At the same time, a new term to present allegations.

SIXTH: The claimed party submitted a brief of allegations on May 19, 2022,
in which, in summary, he stated:

1.- Its immediate action once it receives the request from the AEPD for
removal or distortion of the victim's voice in audiovisual content published on
its web page, since the notification was received on ***DATE.4 and the withdrawal of the video was
made that same day before 7:00 p.m.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/55

It also shows that the news item in which the video "was
incardinado was an "agency news" provided by the Atlas Agency, belonging to
Mediaset España Comunicación, S.A., within the framework of a contract for the supply of
informative content of your property. (…).

The publication of agency news on the ABC website is done
automatic; i.e. the newsfeed is produced via a dump
automated, without ABC being able to decide what news and materials are published and
which ones are not, and without being able to alter their content either, since ABC does not hold
transformation rights over said contents. In this sense, the authorship and
third party news ownership is specifically mentioned in the
headings of each of the publications. (…).”

2.- The difficulty that the voice by itself allows the identification of the victim.
He considers that "a voice only acquires identity when it is associated with some other data
(an image, a name, a specific profile...), and therefore only allows the
identification in the company of additional information that, in the case at hand, does not
was facilitated, since the image of the victim was not shown, nor did he indicate his identity.
name or any other identifying feature. For this reason, and even if someone could
having heard the voice of the victim in that audio, that does not mean in the least
that he was able to identify her."

He criticizes the various judgments invoked by the initiation agreement, since none of them
does not refer specifically to the voice, but to other personal data, either
independently or jointly.

It maintains that the sound recording has a lighter interference in the rights to the
honor and personal and family privacy that the publication of the image of a
victim, invoking the Constitutional Court Judgment No. 57/2004, of 19
of April.

3.- There has not been an intense impact on the privacy of the victim for various
reasons:

- No damage or harm has been proven, nor is there even evidence that the
victim is aware of the dissemination of the video by ABC, since there is no record
any statement about the victim.

- Unlike other media outlets, the defendant posted the video on
a single point of its web page, without disseminating it through networks
social or some other channel.

- There was little viewing of the video published on the party's website
claimed, being, therefore, its repercussion little and practically nil
chances that someone who had seen the video that ABC posted would have
ascertained the identity of the victim.

 

4.- It was the Provincial Court of
 , body in charge of
prosecution of the case, who distributed the video of the trial session held on

 ***LOCATION.1
 

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/55

day ***DATE.6, on which the victim's statement was made, among the media
communication and news agencies.

The defendant considers that when the courts share
content with the media can do so in three ways: "(i)
complete form, as they were obtained, (ii) with the distorted voice and the image
diffused, in those cases in which they consider that the adoption of
such measures; or (iii) with express indications to the media to
to carry out, by their own means, the application of these measures that have
in order to protect the integrity of the victims.”

It indicates that in this case "the video was provided by the Atlas Agency, which in turn
received the material provided directly by the Provincial Court of
***LOCATION.1. And as the Atlas Agency has confirmed to ABC, the Hearing
Provincial of ***LOCALIDAD.1 distributed the video with the voice of the victim in clear and
without distorting. Additionally, neither in the aforementioned diffusion did it include
no express indication, on the part of the Hearing, that it would be necessary
distort the victim's voice."

Therefore, it considers that there is no violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since the
diffusion of the audio with the victim's statement without distorting it did so "from the
full understanding that: (i) the Provincial Court had released the video of the
declaration of the victim with all the necessary guarantees aimed at their protection,
and (ii) the Atlas Agency, prior to the publication of the news item, had made
in turn a filtering of the contents to verify that the news would be published
respecting all legal guarantees, as part of the supply agreement of
informative content subscribed with ABC.”

5.- He considers the amount of the sanction excessive because, in his opinion, the
circumstances to apply the aggravating factors used by the AEPD in its
initiation agreement, while considering that it has forgotten a series of
extenuating.
 
SEVENTH: On May 30, 2022, it is agreed to open a practice phase of
proof. It is also agreed to incorporate into the file, for evidence purposes, the
claim that gave rise to the disciplinary procedure and its attached documentation;
the documents obtained and generated during the phase of admission to processing of the
claim, the report of previous investigation actions and the allegations to the
initiation agreement of PS/00193/2022 submitted by the claimed party together with its
attached documentation.

The following test procedures are carried out:

to. Before the claimed:

1. In the same letter dated May 30, 2022 in which the
opening of the test phase, you are required to submit the following information and
documentation:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/55

- Copy of the contract for the supply of informative content that you have signed

with the Atlas Agency.

- Copy of all the documentation on your relationship, in terms of

protection of personal data, with the Atlas Agency.

- In its allegations to the initiation agreement, the defendant indicated that "the
publication of agency news on the ABC website is done
automatic; i.e. the newsfeed is produced via a dump
automated, without ABC being able to decide what news and materials are published and
which are not, and without being able to alter their content either”. To this end, report that
indicate:

a) How the automated dumping of news from the Atlas Agency is carried out
on its website, from a technical point of view, with specific mention of
eventual access of the aforementioned agency to the ABC website.

b) What is the system of access profiles, users and authorizations of
access to its web page established for this purpose so that the Atlas Agency can carry out
the automated dumping of news. Also, report whether there is any
type of authorization by the claimed party, and its form of
operation, in relation to the automated dumping of news from the
Atlas Agency.

c) How the publication is made on your website, from the point of view of

technical view, of the news dumped automatically by the Atlas Agency.

d) If, in relation to the publication and automated dumping of news from
different agencies on their website, have carried out an evaluation of
impact of data protection, expressly mentioning the one carried out
regarding the Atlas Agency. Referral, if applicable, of such evaluation of
impact, with express indication of the date of its realization.

e) If, in relation to the automated dumping of news from different
agencies on their website, have implemented a system of analysis of
risks in terms of data protection, prior to such dumping,
with express indication of whether they carry out checks in relation to the data
of a personal nature contained in the news. Remission, if applicable, of the
analysis of risks carried out in relation to the treatment examined in the
this disciplinary proceeding, expressly indicating the date of its
realization.

- Copy of the Record of Treatment Activities.

- Technical or organizational security measures implemented to
guarantee that only personal data that is
necessary for each of the specific purposes of the treatment.

2. On June 14, 2022, a response was received from the claimed party to the
evidence requested, in which:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/55

- It states that the commercial relationship with the Atlas Agency "has not been
formalized in writing through a contract signed by both parties, but it is
product of the subscription by ABC to the service provided by ATLAS (...). HE
It is therefore an adhesion contract subject to the clauses marked by ATLAS in
their website."

- It states that "ATLAS provides a news supply service to which
accesses by prior unconditional adherence to the clauses included in the
General Conditions that appear published on its website, without such
accession is open to the inclusion or negotiation of specific clauses on
Personal data protection."

- Regarding the automated news dump process of the Atlas Agency

On the ABC website, he states:

a) That, from a technical point of view, the automated dump "is
occurs using a file transfer protocol, also known as
FTP, which allows ABC, through the implementation of a mechanism of
monitoring, download ATLAS videos in an automated way
that are being uploaded by it. In this sense, ATLAS uploads its contents to its
FTP, and the system keeps track of said FTP in order to detect if it exists
new content, in order to dump it and publish it directly on the website.”

b) That, in accordance with the automated dumping procedure
explained, "it is not necessary for ABC to issue a permit in favor of ATLAS to
that it accesses the ABC website.”

c) Regarding how the publication is made on its website, from
the technical point of view, of the news dumped automatically by the Agency
Atlas, reiterates what was said in section a).

d) That "the publication of news from agencies is
considers a variation in the origin of the data with respect to the treatment of
journalistic information made from the ABC Newsroom itself, not having
differences in terms of the treatment itself, and thus addressing its review of
jointly through risk analysis of information processing
information that is contributed to this writing", which is the risk analysis on the
treatment of journalistic information that he carried out in October 2020. Indicates the part
claimed that from said analysis it is inferred that "the treatment of publication of
journalistic information does not entail a high risk for the rights and freedoms of
interested parties whose data is published given that, following the internal methodology of the
analysis, two or more of the parameters that would determine such a circumstance are not given and
would make it necessary to prepare an impact evaluation.”

e) That "As stated in the previous section, ABC does not
considers that the treatment of publication of journalistic information entails a high
risk to the rights and freedoms of those involved in the published news
by ABC, which is why an Impact Assessment has not been carried out.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/55

- Provide a copy of the record of information processing activities

journalistic

- Regarding the request for a report on technical security measures or
organizational measures implemented to guarantee that only those
personal data that is necessary for each of the specific purposes of the
treatment, the claimed party indicates that in the present case "the measures that are
to implement are those dictated by the court that has recorded the
content and that it has proceeded to disseminate it to the media, since it cannot be assumed that
ABC may have better judgment than someone who has known the facts first hand,
He has prosecuted them and has considered their dissemination legitimate (...).

In addition to the measures originally adopted by the Provincial Court of
***LOCATION.1, there is a second filter, which is the one carried out by ATLAS when
prepare the contents that it distributes through its service to verify that the
The news is published respecting all legal guarantees, (…).”

3. Second request for evidence to the defendant:

On June 20, 2022, the procedure instructor agreed to practice a new
diligence of evidence before the claimed party.

Since in the brief of the defendant party of June 14, 2022, it indicated,
Regarding the requirement to provide a copy of the content supply contract
notices that it has signed with the Atlas Agency, that "This commercial relationship does not
has been formalized in writing in a contract signed by both parties, but it is
product of the subscription by ABC to the service provided by ATLAS and whose
General Conditions are published on its website (www.atlas-news.com),
being a necessary requirement for such subscription the full and unconditional acceptance of
said General Conditions by the client, to whom the condition is attributed
of "user" of the service. It is therefore an adhesion contract subject to the
clause marked by ATLAS on its website.", she was required to submit:

- Document certifying that ABC has subscribed to the electricity supply service.

information provided by the Atlas Agency, indicating the date of subscription.

- Copy of the General and Particular Conditions of the commercial relationship
between Atlas Agency and the claimed party existing at the time of publication
of the news now examined.

4. On June 27, 2022, a response was received from the claimed party to the
second test request, in which you provide:

- Written, dated June 24, 2022, from the Sole Administrator of the company
Comunica Mediatrader, S.L.U. (owner of the Atlas Agency) in which it is indicated
that the contract for the transfer of images to ABC dates from April 16, 2007,
referring to various aspects of such a contract.

- Copy of the General Conditions of the Atlas Agency as well as the

General Conditions of Internet Service of the Atlas Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/55

b. Proceedings regarding the ownership of the domain of the web page ***URL.1 and the
Ownership of the content of the web page ***URL.1.

For this purpose, on June 2, 2022, the instructor of the procedure carried out a procedure in
the one that considers reproduced the legal notice of the web page ***URL.1, by which the owner
of it is DIARIO ABC, S.L., with CIF B-82824194, this entity being
responsible for all content that is published under that domain.

EIGHTH: On October 3, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize DIARIO ABC, S.L., with NIF B82824194, for a violation of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, with a fine of €50,000
(fifty thousand euros).

As well as that by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
confirm the following provisional measures imposed on SOCIEDAD ESPAÑOLA
OF RADIODIFUSION, S.L.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

NINTH: With the registration date of October 14, 2022, the party
The defendant requested an extension of the term to present allegations.

On October 17, 2022, the defendant was notified of the granting of a new term
to present claims.

TENTH: The claimed party submitted a brief of allegations on October 27,
2022, in which, in summary, he states the following:

1.- It is reiterated that the news object of this sanctioning procedure is a
notice provided by the Atlas Agency to the claimed party about which the latter did not
holds content transformation rights.

Likewise, it criticizes that the proposed resolution indicates that it has not accredited
irrefutably "that after the date of the supply contract there has been
opted for the automation of the publication process, nor that this modality has
been the one used with respect to the publication of the news object of the present
procedure.”, alleging in this regard that:

- "The AEPD was already informed in the response to the request for
information dated June 14, 2022 that the automated dump of the
ATLAS content is produced using a file transfer protocol.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/55

- There is no record of having opted for the automation of the
news publication "because (i) it is not the usual practice in relations
formalized between the News Agencies and the media, nor, more
Importantly, (ii) there is a legal obligation to leave a written record through a
formal document for the purpose of the dumping method chosen.”

2.- It reiterates that it has acted diligently once it received the request from the AEPD
removal of content or distortion of the victim's voice, alleging to the elderly that,
Although it is true that such action is mandatory, it understands that "the
extremely fast and diligent attitude that ABC had when serving you is not
mandatory nor is it derived as such from article 58.2 of the GDPR and 69 of the LOPDGDD
mentioned by this AEPD, but it is a voluntary attitude of ABC that is not
but one more sample of his predisposition and diligent attitude regarding the
privacy of the victim and with respect to the AEPD itself, and that it has not been taken into
taken into account by this AEPD when graduating the sanction proposal in this
procedure."

3.- It reiterates the difficulty that the voice by itself allows the identification of the
victim, criticizing that the proposed resolution indicates "that the voice of any
person is personal data and identifies or makes it uniquely identifiable,
regardless of the additional data that is in the assumption.”

He does not share this "affirmation, since despite the fact that the voice can make
identifiable to a person:

I. It does not do it by itself in an unequivocal way, since the confusion about the
identity of people's voices is a recurring and common mistake, even with
familiar voices that people are accustomed to hearing day after day.

II. For there to be a unique and seamless identification, data is required
additions that did not accompany, in this case, the news object of the present
procedure."

He also criticizes the proposed resolution when it states that "the voice of the
The victim identifies her directly in her environment (understood in a broad sense,
encompassing the family and the social), (...) it is clear that the voice of any person can
ensure that it is identified at least by those who are part of the circle
closest to the victim.

It considers in this regard that "The AEPD is not taking into consideration that this
identification of the victim who alleges as direct within that environment,
probably not necessary since it is practically impossible for the
the victim's closest circle, as we have mentioned, was not aware of
of this unpleasant situation prior to the publication of the news",
subsequently stating that it is not possible to "claim non-compliance for the mere
fact that ABC publishes a voice that recounts already known facts”, invoking
to this effect the Judgment of the National Court of September 9, 2022.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/55

For this reason, he understands that "the object of discussion and analysis should be, not the possibility of
recognition of the victim within an environment that, predictably, is already
aware of such circumstances, but the possibility of recognition beyond
that nearby environment. And for this, as the AEPD asserts, the
combination of voice with other data. In the case at hand, no
public more data than the voice of the victim”.

4.- It is reiterated that there has not been an intense impact on the privacy of the victim
for the reasons stated in his pleadings to the initiation agreement.

Likewise, it criticizes the fact that the proposed resolution states that "the treatment now
debated is characterized by:

- Its durability (...) as soon as the request from the AEPD was received on the date
***DATE.4, the news was not edited, but directly deleted. thus having
withdrawn it, any access and/or disposition by third parties to the copy of
this content controlled by ABC is absolutely impossible.

- Its amplifying effect as ABC is a means of communication. Nevertheless,
The mere fact of being a means of communication does not imply, under any circumstances,
concept, the disclosure to the public of this information in a manner
exponential and ubiquitous as the AEPD points out. (...), the repercussion of the news during
the brief time it was published was minimal. This shows that, although
As a means of communication, ABC can have an amplifying effect
of the information that it transmits, of course that was not the case in the news object of
sanction."

5.- He doubts that "the indications that the judicial bodies give to the media
communication on certain occasions in relation to the contents that
share are warnings or mere recommendations, and not a mandate as such.
(...) Well, as we have indicated, the courts are guarantors of the
protection of victims in the framework of procedures in which they are
part, and it must be understood that such indications have been issued with a criterion
founded. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and if in the eyes of the AEPD the indications of the
effectively judged were mere warnings or recommendations of the body
court, then it should be noted that ABC is being sanctioned for not carrying out
carry out an act -such as the distortion of the voice- which, if requested
expressly by the Provincial Court, would have been classified by the AEPD as
a mere warning or recommendation.”

6.- Considers that the matter at trial was of general interest and public relevance,
since “the condition of “public” also falls on private persons considered
newsworthy due to supervening circumstances, in events of public interest in which
are protagonists regardless of their own will, as, unfortunately, is
the case."

Therefore, he understands that in the present case the Fundamental Right to
Freedom of Information on the Fundamental Right to Data Protection
Personal whenever:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/55

“- The voice by itself has a low degree of connection with the victim.

- Being such a media case, as the AEPD insists on pointing out, it is easy to deduce that
the people in the victim's environment who would be able to recognize his voice
are aware of these facts, and that therefore the damage presumed by the AEPD does not
would exist.”

Likewise, and in relation to "this struggle between Fundamental Rights in conflict",
criticizes that both the start-up agreement and the proposed resolution invoke
judicial pronouncements that are not comparable to the present case,
referring specifically to the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 27/2020, of 24
February (recurso de amparo 1369-2017) and the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of its
First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014).

7.- It is reiterated that it has not violated article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since "the
The publication of the victim's statement was made with the full understanding of
its legitimacy, insofar as it had been disseminated directly by the
judicial body in charge of prosecuting the case, without distortion of the voice of the
itself or any guideline for news agencies and the media to
this respect.”

8.- It is reiterated that the sanction is excessive because it improperly applies a series of
aggravating factors and forgets to apply a series of mitigating factors.

Regarding the argument of the proposed resolution that indicates that "with the dissemination
from her voice she is identified, putting her at a certain risk of being identified
by people who were unaware of their status as victims," says the defendant
that:

- "So that the voice could have identified the victim clearly and unequivocally
Additional data would have been necessary, which in the present case was not provided.”

- "The AEPD is basing its thesis on the certain risk that the victim could be
identified by people who were unaware of their status as victims, which is no more
that a conjecture of the AEPD not based on proven facts.”

He criticizes the proposed resolution when it indicates that "The damage or harm that is
has caused the victim is, as previously stated, the certain risk of being
identified by people who were unaware of their status as victims (...)", since "the
alleged harm: (i) it has not been stated by the victim herself; and (ii) has not been
investigated since the victim has never been part of this
procedure."

Regarding the argument of the proposed resolution that indicates that "the withdrawal of
content would not have derived from a spontaneous action on the part
claimed, which is when there really would have been a more diligent expedited practice
by the media.", understands that "the diligent attitude is not only
derives from acts carried out on their own initiative, but is based
also in the speed in the elimination of the news as soon as it had
knowledge that an illegal act could potentially be committed, as well as in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/55

the predisposition and collaboration that characterize ABC's attitude throughout the
process, and that the AEPD does not seem to have taken into account.”

With regard to the argument in the motion for a resolution that there has been no
acted with the due diligence as it is a means of communication, which
habitually distort the voice so that the voice is not recognized
person speaking, it is reiterated that "he acted with the full understanding that: (i) the
Provincial Court had broadcast the video of the victim's statement with all
the necessary guarantees aimed at their protection, and (ii) the Atlas Agency, in a manner
prior to the publication of the news, had in turn filtered the
contents to verify that the news would be published respecting all the guarantees
legal (…).”

Regarding the aggravating circumstance of the personal data affected by the infringement (article
83.2.g) of the GDPR) criticizes the resolution proposal for considering the voice as data
staff that identifies the victim or makes it univocally identifiable, then,
understands that in order for the victim to be unequivocally identified
additional data would have been needed. Likewise, it understands that "it is not considered
proven that the publication object of this requirement has caused a
actual harm to the victim.”

Finally, it mentions the decision to file the actions of the AEPD in the
file EXP202100646, related to a "case of circumstances similar to those
today they are tried, but whose result differs greatly from the proposal of
disciplinary resolution against ABC”.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1, the claimant filed a claim with the
AEPD denouncing that various media outlets published on their websites
the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of multiple rape, to
illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was highly mediated,
providing links to news published on media websites
claimed.

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: The General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection, in the exercise of its
investigative activities, found a publication of the Respondent where
could hear the victim's voice undistorted at the following address:

- ***URL.1

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/55

THIRD: Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, with the date of
***DATE.4, the party claimed was notified of an urgent precautionary measure to withdraw
content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible, in
concrete of:

- ***URL.1

FOURTH: On ***DATE.5, the AEPD received a letter sent by this
reporting entity:

- That the video object of the requirement "has been provided by the Atlas Agency,
within the framework of an agreement for the provision of news content drawn up by the
own Atlas Agency, which includes both text and audiovisual material, and on the
that Diario ABC does not hold transformation rights.”

- That as soon as it has become aware of the AEPD's requirement, it has
proceeded to the immediate withdrawal of the video both on the web page indicated in the
requirement, as well as in the reply made on the website of the edition of
Seville from Diario ABC (***URL.2). It has also requested Google deindexation
of the url in which the video appeared.

- That it has informed the Atlas Agency of the requirement of the AEPD to act
consequently.

- That it keeps a copy of such content "for the purpose of safeguarding the evidence that
may become accurate in the course of the police or administrative investigation or the
judicial process that could be instructed.”

- That it has notified Vocento (the communication group to which ABC belongs) of the
requirement of the AEPD.

FIFTH: It is proven in the report of previous actions of investigation of
dated January 24, 2022, which verified what was stated by the party claimed in
his writing ***DATE.5, that is, it was verified that the news is no longer available in
this address:

- ***URL.1

SIXTH: Work in the file diligence of the instructor of the date procedure
June 2, 2022, by which the notice of the website is reproduced
***URL.1, by which the owner of the same is DIARIO ABC, S.L., with CIF B-82824194,
being this entity responsible for all the content that is published under that
domain.

SEVENTH: The claimed party, in response to the evidence that has been requested, has
manifested, regarding the request for a report on the technical security measures or
organizational measures implemented to guarantee that only those
personal data that is necessary for each of the specific purposes of the
treatment, that in the present case "the measures that must be implemented are the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/55

that the court that has recorded the content and that has proceeded
to its dissemination to the media, since it cannot be assumed that ABC can have a better
criterion that whoever has known the facts first hand, has judged them and has
its dissemination is considered legitimate, (…).

In addition to the measures originally adopted by the Provincial Court of
***LOCATION.1, there is a second filter, which is the one carried out by ATLAS when
prepare the contents that it distributes through its service to verify that the
The news is published respecting all legal guarantees, (…).”

EIGHTH: It appears in the written file, dated June 24, 2022, of the
Sole Administrator of the company Conmunica Mediatrader, S.L.U. (owner of the
Atlas Agency) in which he exposes:

“That the image assignment contract (to ABC) dates from April 16, 2007. This
The contract was formalized with Vocento Madiatrader (VMT), a company that at that time
was formed 100% by the capital of Vocento.

The contract says the following:

Atlas undertakes to provide ABC (as set out in Annex II of the
mentioned contract) the basic modality of the e-news service consisting of the
supply of 900 monthly video news 80% produced by Atlas and 20%
Reuters production, at a rate of 30 daily video news on average to be selected from
all available offer

Procedure. Through the Atlas or Mediaset website. Where Atlas places the
contents available to ABC so that it selects those that are of its
interest (point 2).

Ownership of images and information. Atlas will respond and hold harmless
ABC against any demand or similar claim related to the property
intellectual (point 6).

Legality and responsibility for the contents. Atlas are responsible for the
service update and warranty.”

NINTH: The file contains a copy of the General Conditions of the Agency
Atlas, which are indicated in section 4, regarding the responsibility for the use of
the contents on the internet, the following:

"MEDIASET ESPAÑA does not guarantee the quality, accuracy, reliability, correctness or
morality of the data, programs, information or opinions, whatever their
origin, that could circulate through its network or through the networks to which the Client can
access through the portal www.atlas-news.com. The Client expressly accepts
exempt MEDIASET ESPAÑA from any claim derived from the
mentioned in this section. The Client assumes under his sole responsibility the
consequences, damages or actions that may derive from access to said
contents, as well as its unauthorized reproduction or dissemination expressly and
documented by MEDIASET ESPAÑA. This limited warranty and the limitation of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/55

responsibility mentioned in the previous paragraphs will not affect or harm
the mandatory rights that assist you according to your place of residence.”

TENTH: The file contains a copy of the General Conditions of the Service of
Internet Agency Atlas.

The General Conditions of Internet Service of the Atlas Agency indicate
regarding the distribution the following:

“The contents are published within the distribution channel www.atlas-news.com. In
the professional access section are enabled the functions that allow the
customers quickly and easily download video, photo and text files for
proceed to its publication on its pages.

For subscribers to all production it is possible to automate the process of
publication, so that the news is automatically published on your website.”

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD, is competent
to initiate and resolve this procedure, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The claimed party states that, once ***DATE.4 was received, the
requirement of the AEPD regarding the withdrawal or distortion of the voice of the victim in the
audiovisual content published on its website, immediately proceeded to the
Withdrawal of the video, specifically, it was made that same day at 7:00 p.m.

Beforehand, we must clarify that through this procedure
disciplinary action, the data processing consisting of the dissemination of the voice of
the victim of a multiple violation that has been carried out by the claimed party.

For these purposes, the GDPR defines in its article 4.2 the processing of personal data:
“any operation or set of operations carried out on personal data or
sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not, such as
the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation,
suppression or destruction”. (underlining is ours).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/55

It is the diffusion of the voice of the victim that has been carried out by the claimed party that is
object of this procedure, not its subsequent action, no matter how quickly and
diligent that has been, with respect to the order to remove content from the AEPD, the
which is mandatory in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 of the
GDPR and article 69 of the LOPDGDD.

Furthermore, it should be noted that the withdrawal of the content did not derive from a
spontaneous action of the claimed party based on the performance of an analysis of
risks. Rather, it proceeded to such action when required by the AEPD and, therefore,
therefore, being obliged to comply with such measure, to the point that its non-compliance
implies the commission of an administrative offense under the terms of article 83.6
of the GDPR.

II

The claimed party indicates in its pleadings to the initiation agreement that the
news in which the video "was embedded was an "agency news"
provided by the Atlas Agency, belonging to Mediaset España Comunicación, S.A.,
within the framework of a contract for the supply of information content owned by you.
(…).

The publication of agency news on the ABC website is done
automatic; i.e. the newsfeed is produced via a dump
automated, without ABC being able to decide what news and materials are published and
which ones are not, and without being able to alter their content either, since ABC does not hold
transformation rights over said contents. In this sense, the authorship and
third party news ownership is specifically mentioned in the
headings of each of the publications. (…).”

Therefore, next, we must identify who is responsible for the treatment
object of this file.

Article 4.7) of the GDPR establishes that it is ""responsible for the treatment" or
"responsible": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of processing; Yeah
the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the aims and means of the
treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by law of the Union or of the States
members;".

As established in Directives 07/2020 of the European Protection Committee
of Data on the concepts of data controller and manager in the
GDPR, the concept has five main components: "the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body”, “determines”, “alone or together with
others”, “the purposes and means” and “of the treatment”.

In addition, the concept of data controller is a broad concept, which deals with
to ensure effective and complete protection for the interested parties. It has determined so
the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For all we will quote the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/55

Judgment of the CJEU in the Google-Spain case of May 13, 2014, C-131/12, the
which considers in a broad sense the person responsible for the treatment to guarantee
“an effective and complete protection of the interested parties”.

Thus, Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of data controller and
in charge in the RGPD specify that "the person in charge of the treatment is the party that
determines why the processing is taking place (i.e. “for what purpose” or “what for”) and
how this objective will be achieved (that is, what means will be used to achieve it)”.

Whenever it is clear that the claimed party decides on the purposes of the processing,
that is, it determines that the purpose of the treatment is informative, we have to
focus on whether he also has the power to decide on the means of treatment, which
which the claimed party denies since the news under discussion is news
which comes from the Atlas Agency.
 
In the letter of the Sole Administrator of the company Conmunica Mediatrader, S.L.U.
(owner of the Atlas Agency) dated June 24, 2022, it is indicated that the
contract for the transfer of images to ABC, dated April 16, 2007, reads as follows:

"Atlas undertakes to provide ABC (...) the basic modality of the e-news service
consisting of the supply of 900 monthly news videos 80% own production
of Atlas and 20% Reuters production, at a rate of 30 daily news videos from media to
select from all the available offer (point 1.2)

Procedure. Through the Atlas or Mediaset website. Where Atlas places the
contents available to ABC so that it selects those that are of its
interest. (Point 2)."

On the other hand, in the General Conditions of the Internet service of the Agency
Atlas, we find, in the section related to distribution, the following:

“The contents are published within the distribution channel www.atlas-news.com. In
the professional access section are enabled the functions that allow the
customers quickly and easily download video, photo and text files for
proceed to its publication on its pages.

For subscribers to all production it is possible to automate the process of
publication, so that the news is automatically published on your website.”

Although the claimed party indicates that the publication process on its website is
automated, in the aforementioned supply contract of April 16, 2007,
indicates that the supply procedure will be carried out "Through the Atlas website or
Mediaset. Where Atlas makes the content available to ABC so that it
select those that are of interest to you.", without the claimed party having
reliably accredited that after the date of the supply contract
has opted for the automation of the publication process, nor that this modality
has been the one used with respect to the publication of the news object of the present
procedure.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/55

However, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, criticizes that it is considered that there is no reliable proof that the
news item was produced by an automated dump because:

- "The AEPD was already informed in the response to the request for
information dated June 14, 2022 that the automated dump of the
ATLAS content is produced using a file transfer protocol.

- There is no record of having opted for the automation of the
news publication "because (i) it is not the usual practice in relations
formalized between the News Agencies and the media, nor, more
Importantly, (ii) there is a legal obligation to leave a written record through a
formal document for the purpose of the dumping method chosen.”

In this regard, it should be noted that, although the defendant says that the procedure
that was used to publish the news was the automated dump, and that there is no
legal obligation to record in writing that the provision of content
is done automatically, the truth is that it is duly proven that
between the claimed party and the news agency a contract was signed by which the
content supply is carried out “Through the Atlas or Mediaset website. Where
Atlas makes the contents available to ABC so that it selects those that
be of interest to you." This implies that in order to take into account the manifestations
made by the claimed party, it is necessary for the defendant to present proof, for any
means admitted by law, that ratifies them, since they are contrary to what
signed in the supply contract. And since no such proof has been presented,
the allegations made in this regard cannot be taken into account.

So, in accordance with the above, Atlas makes available to ABC a series of
news, from which the latter selects those that it considers in view of them,
He downloads them and includes them on his website.

In short, the claimed party has decision-making power regarding what contents of
the Atlas Agency publishes and which does not.

Furthermore, the respondent party has the power to decide how
obtain the information, therefore, instead of having opted for it to be supplied by
a news agency, could have chosen to have the event covered by one
of its journalists. Although this would not change the commission of the offense.

For all the above, it is clear that the claimed party is responsible for the treatment
being analyzed, since it holds the power to decide on the ends and means of the
treatment.

IV.

Indicates the claimed party in its brief of allegations to the initiation agreement that is
difficult for the voice by itself to allow the identification of the victim, understanding that
“A voice only acquires identity when it is associated with some other data (an image, a
name, a specific profile...), and therefore only enables identification in
company of additional information that, in the case at hand, was not provided, given

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/55

that the image of the victim was not shown, nor was his name indicated or any other
identifying trait. For this reason, and even if someone could have heard the voice of
the victim in that audio, that does not mean that he could have been
identify."

Notwithstanding its more detailed examination in Law Basis X of
this resolution, it should be noted that the voice of any person is personal data and
identifies it or makes it univocally identifiable, regardless of the data
additional to the assumption.

Thus, the voice fits perfectly into the definition of what is a character data
personnel of article 4.1) of the GDPR, verifying that the four
components indicated in Opinion 4/2007 of the Article 29 Working Group
on the concept of personal data: all information about a natural person
identified or identifiable. The reference to all information refers to the concept
broad definition of what constitutes personal data, which requires a
broad interpretation.

However, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, does not share such "affirmation, since despite the fact that the voice can make
identifiable to a person:

I. It does not do it by itself in an unequivocal way, since the confusion about the
identity of people's voices is a recurring and common mistake, even with
familiar voices that people are accustomed to hearing day after day.”

In this regard, it should be noted that the voice is a personal and individual attribute of
each natural person that is defined by its height, intensity and timbre. endowed with traits
unique and singular hallmarks that individualize it directly, associating it with
a concrete individual, is molded when speaking, being able to know, through it, the
age, sex, state of health of the individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin,
their hormonal, emotional and psychic state. Elements of expression, idiolect or
intonation, are also personal data considered together with
the voice.

Voice is produced when air passes from the lungs through the airways.
(windpipe) and through the larynx, causing the vocal cords to vibrate, creating
Sound. Sound that becomes words thanks to the muscles that control the
soft palate, tongue and lips, without forgetting the cavity where
find these muscles, which acts as a sounding board. How can
appreciate, there are various organs involved in speech, different in each
of people, in fact, and by way of example, the vocal cords of the
Men are longer and thicker than those of women and children, which is why the
voice of those is deeper than that of these, like the sound of a double bass
It is deeper than that of a violin.

But even so, not all men's vocal cords are equally long, which is why
for which there are men with a more or less serious voice, as happens with those of
women, which is why there are women with more or less high-pitched voices.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/55

In addition, we have already seen that not only the
vocal cords, but many more organs that, depending on their strength and
structure will make each voice unique and different. Therefore, we can identify the
people we know by voice without having to see them (for example, when
we have a telephone conversation with someone close to us or
we heard someone acquaintance on the radio). Therefore, anyone who knows
the victim can be identified by hearing his voice.

In the present case examined, the victim's voice identifies her directly
in their environment (understood in a broad sense, encompassing the family and the social),
that, as determined in the aforementioned Opinion 4/2007, "it can be
consider a natural person "identified" when, within a group of
persons, it is "distinguished" from all other members of the group. And there is a
clear treatment if the voice has spread through the media
claimed, under the terms of art. 4.2) of the GDPR.

And it is clear that the voice of any person can make it be identified
at least by those who are part of the circle closest to the victim or may
meet her anyway. Let's imagine relatives or co-workers or
studies, social activities, etc. For this reason, the diffusion of the voice of the victim has
assumed the certain risk that it could have been identified by persons
who were unaware of their status as victims. Which is a particularly serious fact
in an event like the one that gives rise to the news.

The foregoing is criticized by the claimed party in its pleadings to the
resolution proposal, understanding that "The AEPD is not taking into consideration
that the identification of the victim that he alleges as direct within that environment,
probably not necessary since it is practically impossible for the
the victim's closest circle, as we have mentioned, was not aware of
of this unpleasant situation prior to the publication of the news",
subsequently stating that it is not possible to "claim non-compliance for the mere
fact that ABC publishes a voice that recounts already known facts”, invoking
to this effect the Judgment of the National Court of September 9, 2022.

Regardless of whether the statement of the defendant regarding that it is
practically impossible that the circle closest to the victim was not aware of
of such circumstance is a mere speculation, with it it is observed that the part
The defendant has forgotten that the motion for a resolution not only referred to such
circle close to the victim, but also, as we have explained previously, to
all those people who "can know it in any way", which implies,
in the end, that there really was a risk that it could have been identified
by people who were unaware of their status as victims.

On the other hand, it must be indicated that the claimed party, when stating that it is not possible to
“claim a breach merely because ABC publishes a voice recounting
facts already known", is confusing what is the object of debate in the
present proceeding: At no time has it been considered that the publication of the
content of the victim's statement before the judge constituted a violation of the
regulations on data protection, since the narrative of the facts
It is not personal data in accordance with the definition established by the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/55

Article 4 of the GDPR, in addition to being protected by the Fundamental Right to
the Freedom of Information of the media. What is being resolved in the
present procedure is whether the victim's voice without distorting, once we have
determined that it is a personal data that identifies or makes it
unequivocally identifiable, it was necessary to publish it so that the means of
communication was able to fulfill its informative purpose, an aspect that
will develop in the Foundation of Law VIII of this resolution.

In view of the foregoing, the aforementioned Judgment is not applicable to this case either.
of the National Court of September 9, 2022, in which case it is not
prosecuted whether there had been a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, which is the
that is the object of study in the present procedure, but if there had been a
violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR.

In short, it has become clear that the voice of any person can make the
itself is identified at least by those who make up its closest circle or
they can meet her anyway.

But it is also that the voice also makes the victim identifiable indirectly
for a larger segment of the population if combined with other data, even with
additional information, depending on the context in question. Again the Opinion
4/2007 clarifies that "In cases where, at first sight, the identifiers
available do not make it possible to single out a specific person, this person can still be
"identifiable", because that information combined with other data (whether the
responsible for their treatment is aware of them as if not) will allow
distinguish that person from others. (The underlining is ours).

In this regard, the defendant party points out in its pleadings to the proposal for
resolution that "In the case at hand, no more information was made public than the
victim's voice.

However, and in view of the aforementioned Opinion 4/2007, it is irrelevant if the
additional information has not been disclosed by the requested party or is unknown to it. to such
effect, the Judgment of the CJUE of October 19, 2016 is brought up, in the
case C-582/14, procedure between Patrick Breyer and Bundesrepublik Deutschland, the
which states that "for data to be classified as" personal data ", in the
meaning of Article 2(a) of that Directive, it is not necessary that the entire
information that allows the interested party to be identified must be in the possession of a
single person.” (underlining is ours).

Let us also bear in mind that, in the case examined, there is a
easier to make the victim identifiable through his voice in response to the
circumstances of the event and the context in which it is made public: within the framework of
a highly publicized judicial procedure, continuously followed by various
media that provide information about the victim, his
environment, the violators, and the violation suffered (which makes up information
additional).

In this sense, recital 26 of the GDPR determines that "...To determine if
a natural person is identifiable, all means must be taken into account, such as the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/55

singularization, which can reasonably be used by the data controller or
any other person to directly or indirectly identify the natural person.
To determine whether there is a reasonable probability that means will be used to
identify a natural person, all objective factors must be taken into account,
as well as the costs and time required for identification, taking into account both
the technology available at the time of treatment such as advances
technological…”

On the other hand, the criticisms made by the claimed party cannot be shared.
relating to the fact that the judgments invoked by both the initiation agreement and the proposal
resolution do not refer to voice specifically, but to other data
personal, either independently or jointly. Well, obviously the
claimed party that the invocations to such judgments were made to
justify that the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not absolute,
not to determine what data or identifiers are sufficient to identify a
person, as claimed by the defendant.

Nor can the invocation made by the claimed party to the
Ruling of the Constitutional Court no. 57/2004, of April 19, which indicates that "the
rights to honor and personal and family privacy that can be seen
compromised by the taking and dissemination of images of those who act in hearings
public judicial proceedings in a more serious way than for the information that is produced through
of the written report or the sound recording.”

In this disciplinary proceeding, it is not being determined whether the reproduction of
the voice implies a greater or lesser interference in the Fundamental Right to Honor and to
Personal Privacy, but if said reproduction involves the risk that the victim of
a crime can be identified. Risk, which as previously indicated, is
occurs in a certain way with the publication and dissemination of the voice of the victim, which
constitutes a clear interference in the Fundamental Right to Data Protection
Personal, without adjectives.

For this purpose, it is necessary to bring up the STC 292/2000, of November 30, which
states that "This fundamental right to data protection, unlike the
right to privacy of art. 18.1 C.E., with whom it shares the objective of offering a
effective constitutional protection of personal and family private life, attributes to his
holder of a bundle of powers consisting for the most part of the legal power of
impose on third parties the performance or omission of certain behaviors whose
specific regulation must be established by law, the one that according to art. 18.4 C.E.
must limit the use of information technology, either developing the fundamental right to information
data protection (art. 81.1 C.E.), or regulating its exercise (art. 53.1 C.E.). The
peculiarity of this fundamental right to data protection with respect to that
fundamental right as related as that of privacy lies, then, in its different
function, which entails, therefore, that also its object and content differ."

In the case of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, the purpose
it is to protect people without ambiguity and without exception. Especially in this case,
given that what has occurred is the dissemination of the story of a victim of a
multiple violation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/55

In conclusion, a person can be identified by their voice. The publication of the data
the victim's voice alone and undistorted put her at risk
certain of being identified by people who were unaware of her status as a victim.

V

The claimed party considers in its pleadings to the start-up agreement that it did not
there has been an intense impact on the privacy of the victim for various reasons:

- No damage or harm has been proven, nor is there even evidence that the
victim is aware of the dissemination of the video by ABC, since there is no record
any statement about the victim.

- Unlike other media outlets, the defendant posted the video on
a single point of its web page, without disseminating it through networks
social or some other channel.

- There was little viewing of the video published on the party's website
claimed, being, therefore, its repercussion little and practically nil
chances that someone who had seen the video that ABC posted would have
ascertained the identity of the victim.

As already indicated in the previous Basis of Law, the purpose of the Law
Fundamental to the Protection of Personal Data is to protect people without
ambiguity and without exception, the statements being irrelevant in this case
that the respondent party performs because:

- It must be remembered that the claimed party has in any case the obligation to respect
the principles related to the treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR, among which
that the principle of data minimization is found, even without there being
statement in this regard by the victim.

- The treatment carried out by the claimed party is characterized by its durability in
time, because once the news is published, it remains on the network, making it possible to
access its content (and, in this case, the voice of the victim) both through the
newspaper archives and through search engines, as many times as desired
and without time limitation.

- Such treatment is also characterized by its amplifying effect: as it is a
means of communication that facilitates information through the Internet, making
accessible knowledge of that information exponentially and ubiquitously.

In this sense, the STJUE of August 1, 2022 in case C-184/20 (OT and
Vyriausioji tarnybinės etikos komisija) exposes the amplifying effect of the internet
indicating that "102 On the other hand, it is clear that this treatment leads to those
personal data are freely accessible on the Internet by the public as a whole
general and, as a result, by a potentially unlimited number of people.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/55

The information, including the voice of the victim, has been made available to a large
number of people, allowing access to it through any type of
electronic device, twenty-four hours a day and for an unlimited time. In
Consequently, the risk that the victim runs of being able to be recognized has been
increased exponentially.

However, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, criticizes that "the treatment now debated" is characterized by its durability
and its amplifying effect, then:

- "as soon as the request from the AEPD was received on ***DATE.4, the
news was, not edited, but directly deleted.

- "the repercussion of the news during the brief time in which it was published
it was minimal.”

It should be noted in this regard that when the motion for a resolution referred to such
characteristics did not refer to the “treatment now debated”, but to any
treatment carried out by the communication medium as data controller
when you publish personal data.

- That the scarce display of the video published on the web page supposes that they are
the chances that someone who had seen it would have
found out the identity of the victim is a mere speculation of the claimed party.
It depends on who it is, on their degree of connection with it, on the
how often you interact with that person, etc. It would suffice for a nucleus
small number of people, or even a single person, to recognize the victim through
the news so that their identity would be compromised and even spread to other
people.

- With the diffusion of the victim's voice, the victim is made identifiable, putting her in
a certain risk of being identified by people who did not know their status
victim, a risk that should have been assessed by the media and of which
it's responsible.

SAW

Indicates the claimed party in its brief of allegations to the initiation agreement that was the
Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.1, body in charge of prosecuting
case, who distributed the video of the trial session held on ***DATE.6, in
which the victim's statement was made, between the media and the
news agencies.

And that in the specific case of ABC, "the video was supplied by the Atlas Agency,
who in turn received the material provided directly by the Audiencia
Provincial of ***LOCATION.1. And as the Atlas Agency has confirmed to ABC, the
Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.1 distributed the video with the voice of the victim
clear and undistorted. Additionally, neither in the aforementioned diffusion
included no express indication, by the Court, that it would be
necessary to distort the voice of the victim.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/55

It has already been pointed out in Fundamentals of Law II that it is the diffusion of the voice of the
victim who has carried out the claimed party which is the object of this procedure,
while in Fundamentals of Law III it has been indicated that this is the
responsible for such treatment.

The distribution of the video of the sight with the undistorted voice of the victim by
from the Provincial Court to the media and news agencies is another
treatment of data different from the one being analysed. Therefore, the origin of the
information has been the Provincial Court is not enough to exempt the party
claimed from its responsibility, because what is being prosecuted is not the
provision of information by the Provincial Court to the media
communication and news agencies, but the treatment for which the
claimed party, such as the dissemination of personal data such as the voice of the victim.

As soon as the information reaches the media, the latter, as the person responsible for the
treatment, is responsible for complying with the data protection regulations, without
be able to cover the breach of the same in the fact that the Hearing
The Provincial Council thus sent the information to the media and news agencies.
news, assuming that such forecast allows you to publish it without paying attention to the
requirements of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

The distribution of the video by the Provincial Court does not imply that it has to
be the court that indicates to the media and news agencies
how they should proceed with the information material supplied, a fact that the party
The defendant acknowledges both in its pleadings to the start-up agreement and in
his pleadings to the resolution proposal, when he indicates that when
spread the news, it did so with the full understanding that “(ii) the Atlas Agency, of
Prior to the publication of the news, it had filtered the contents
to verify that the news would be published respecting all legal guarantees”.

Regarding the allegation made by the defendant in its pleadings brief to the
initiation agreement regarding the fact that there was no express indication, by the Hearing,
that it was necessary to distort the voice of the victim, it should be noted that what
the Court can do, in accordance with the Communication Protocol of the
Justice 2020 is a warning, a mere recommendation, not a mandate.

And as has been indicated, it corresponds to the media, as
responsible for the treatment, decide what and how public. I might decide to post the
information despite the warning received, choose not to publish or decide
distort the victim's voice in order to prevent it from being recognized, even in the case of
not having received any warning in this regard.

It can be concluded that the warning that the Court can make does not prevent the publication
of personal data, in the same way that the absence of it does not legitimize
publish all personal data. Nor does it exempt the media from the
obligation to carry out a risk analysis prior to the publication of the news.

However, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution, doubts that the indications that the judicial bodies give to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/55

media on certain occasions in relation to the contents
they share are warnings or mere recommendations, and not a mandate like
such. (...) Well, as we have indicated, the courts are guarantors of the
protection of victims in the framework of procedures in which they are
part, and it must be understood that such indications have been issued with a criterion
founded. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and if in the eyes of the AEPD the indications of the
effectively judged were mere warnings or recommendations of the body
court, then it should be noted that ABC is being sanctioned for not carrying out
carry out an act -such as the distortion of the voice- which, if requested
expressly by the Provincial Court, would have been classified by the AEPD as
a mere warning or recommendation.”

In this regard, a distinction must be made between the adoption of measures by the body
jurisdiction within the development of judicial proceedings, on the one hand, and the
warnings or recommendations made by said body when it provides information to
the media, on the other hand. Bearing in any case clear that both a
treatment like the other are not the subject of this disciplinary file.

In the first case, that is, when the court adopts measures within the
development of the judicial procedure, it performs a weighting of the rights and
liberties at stake that seeks to protect the identity of the victim of a crime
violent, without violating the right to effective judicial protection of the defendants.

On the other hand, as we have already explained, the indications made by the
court to the media when it provides them with information, they are
mere warnings or recommendations.

It is not possible to understand what the defendant means when he states that if
“the indications of the court were indeed mere warnings or
recommendations of the judicial body, then it should be noted that ABC is being
penalized for not carrying out an act -such as the distortion of the voice- that, in
had been expressly requested by the Provincial Court, it would have been qualified
by the AEPD as a mere warning or recommendation.”

In any case, if the interpretation defended by the defendant is followed, the
treatment carried out by the media would be totally subordinate
or conditioned by the indications received from the judicial body, this not being the
case.

Therefore, the motion for a resolution indicated that this last line of argument of the
claimed party, is not consistent with section 6 of the Communication Protocol
of Justice 2020, regarding the protection of personal data, which makes
reference to the transmission, by the Communication Offices, of the text of the
court decision to social media.

This section contains the text of a warning about the responsibility of the
means of communication in the dissemination of personal data contained in the text of the
judicial resolution, which must be included in all shipments to
media:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/55

“This communication cannot be considered as the official publication of a
public document. The communication of personal data contained in
the attached judicial resolution, not previously dissociated, is carried out in compliance
of the institutional function that article 54.3 of Regulation 1/2000, of July 26,
of the governing bodies of the courts, attributes to this Office of Communication,
for the exclusive purposes of their eventual treatment for journalistic purposes in the
terms provided for in article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European Union and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of persons
physical with regard to the processing of personal data.

In any case, the provisions of the data protection regulations will apply.
of a personal nature to the treatment that the recipients of this information carry out
out of the personal data contained in the attached judicial resolution, which does not
may be transferred or communicated for purposes contrary to the law.” (underlining is
our).

On the other hand, neither can the claimed party be exempted from its responsibility for the
action of the Atlas Agency, since section 4 of the General Conditions of the
said news agency indicates that "MEDIASET ESPAÑA does not guarantee the quality,
accuracy, reliability, correctness or morality of the data, programs, information or
opinions, whatever their origin, that may circulate through its network or through the
networks that the Client can access through the portal www.atlas-news.com. He
Customer expressly agrees to exempt MEDIASET ESPAÑA from any
claim derived from what is mentioned in this section.”

And it is that the RGPD has supposed a transcendental change in the way of understanding the
right to the protection of personal data, being one of the novelties
most relevant proactive responsibility, contemplated in article 5.2 of said
Regulation:

"2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility")."

Proactive liability implies that the data controller is
responsible for the data processing that it carries out. You not only have to meet the
principles enshrined in article 5.1, but must be able to prove it.
That responsibility implies the need to make decisions -determination
of the purposes and means of the treatment that is going to be carried out-, as well as to render
accounts for the decisions made.

In this sense, recital 74 of the GDPR provides for the following:

"The responsibility of the data controller must be established for
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” (underlining is
our).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/55

In those cases in which there is a "treatment chain", that is,
different and subsequent treatments carried out by different managers of the
treatment, each person in charge will be responsible for the decisions that they adopt in their field
regarding your treatment. Not being able to protect himself to exempt himself from
its responsibility in what the person responsible for the previous treatment did, as well as
You will not be held responsible for the decisions adopted by the person in charge of the
treatment that is next in the chain.

In this sense, it is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union
in Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, which rules on a case in
which an e-commerce company inserted the module on its website
social "likes" of the social network Facebook, which implied that they were transmitted to it
personal data of visitors to the trading company's website
email regardless of whether the visitors were members of the aforementioned
social network or if they clicked on the "like" button on Facebook. In its section 74
establishes that "On the other hand, and without prejudice to a possible civil liability
provided for in national law in this regard, that natural or legal person cannot
be held liable, within the meaning of that provision, for operations
before or after the chain of treatment with respect to which it does not determine
the ends nor the means.

In other words, any processing operation carried out within the scope of the part
claimed (in this case the dissemination of personal data on the occasion of the news)
must be attributed only to him, regardless of processing operations that are
previously carried out by other subjects and that, in no case, exempt you from your
responsibility. The media, as data controllers
multiple data that they know within the exercise of their journalistic work, they must
know and comply with the regulations on data protection, applying, among
them, the principle of data minimization enshrined in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

VII

It considers the claimed party in its brief of allegations to the proposal of
resolution that the matter at trial was of general interest and public relevance, since
“the condition of “public” also falls on private persons considered
newsworthy due to supervening circumstances, in events of public interest in which
are protagonists regardless of their own will, as, unfortunately, is
the case."

For this reason, the defendant understands that in the present case the
Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information on the Fundamental Right to
Protection of Personal Data whenever:

“- The voice by itself has a low degree of connection with the victim.

- Being such a media case, as the AEPD insists on pointing out, it is easy to deduce that
the people in the victim's environment who would be able to recognize his voice
are aware of these facts, and that therefore the damage presumed by the AEPD does not
would exist.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/55

Without prejudice to its more detailed examination in the Fundament of Law XIV of
this resolution, it must be remembered that for a matter to be considered of
public relevance, it will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting in the
assumption examined the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is
great interest that is not recognized by third parties, so it can mean
a new penalty to the one already suffered. The victim is an anonymous person and must follow
being so, in such a way that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed,
because the victims of crimes are not on the same level of equality as the
people who have committed them, as stated in the V Law Foundation of the
startup agreement.

Among the judgments referred to in the aforementioned legal basis,
We will highlight the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of its First Civil Chamber,
661/2016, of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014), which in relation to the recruitment and
disclosure in court of the image of a victim of gender violence provided that
"3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20). (underlining is ours).

Victims of sexual assaults, such as gang rape, have to face
the challenge of resuming his life once the trial is over, trying to overcome the
physical and psychological sequelae derived from the traumatic experience they have suffered.
In this sense, your environment plays a decisive role. Unfortunately, even today
produce situations in which they are stigmatized despite having been the
victims, sometimes even being forced to change their place of residence.

For this reason, it is essential to treat with the greatest care any personal data that
allows you to reveal your identity, prevent you from being recognized as a victim in your environment,
understood in a broad sense. Here the medium plays a decisive role.
communication, since the analysis of risks for the rights and freedoms that
carried out prior to publication is the last guarantee that the company has.
victim.

In any case, it is not a matter of giving precedence to a fundamental right over
another, nor of a "fight between conflicting Fundamental Rights", as
expresses the claimed party in its brief of allegations to the proposed resolution.
It is treated, rather, as indicated in the Legal Basis VI of the agreement
start, to find a balance between both rights to achieve the achievement
of the purpose of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information without distorting the
Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/55

Furthermore, the argument of the party cannot be shared
claimed that in this case the Fundamental Law should prevail
to Freedom of Information on the Fundamental Right to Data Protection
Personal because, in the opinion of the claimed party, (i) "The voice by itself has a
low degree of connection with the victim.", and because (ii) "it is easy to deduce that the
people in the victim's environment who would be able to recognize his voice are already
aware of these facts, and that therefore the damage presumed by the AEPD does not
would exist.”

And it cannot be shared because, as already stated in the Fundamentals of Law IV
of this resolution, the voice of any person is personal data and the
identifies or makes it univocally identifiable, at least by the persons
who are part of her closest circle or who may know her in any way.

On the other hand, the defendant criticizes in its statement of allegations the proposal for
resolution that both the start-up agreement and the proposed resolution invoke
judicial pronouncements that are not comparable to the present case,
referring specifically to the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 27/2020, of 24
February (recurso de amparo 1369-2017) and the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of its
First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014).

The defendant indicates that the Judgment of the
Constitutional Court 27/2020, of February 24 (amparo appeal 1369-2017)
because this "is about the incompatibility of the publication of an image in
Facebook published by the owner of the data with the publication of the image
in a communication medium, while, in the case prosecuted through this
disciplinary process, the purpose of making available by the Hearing
Provincial of ***LOCALIDAD.1 in favor of news agencies and mass media
communication itself was specifically its publication in such media.”

It seems that the claimed party has forgotten that the appointment that has been made, both in the
initiation agreement as in the resolution proposal, to the aforementioned judgment of the
Constitutional Court is within the Foundation of Law V of such
judicial pronouncement, called "The non-consensual use of the image
alien”. And that with such an invocation it was a question of delimiting if "someone who is not a character
public, but which suddenly and involuntarily acquires a role in the fact
newsworthy, in this case as a victim" has the nature of public interest,
regardless of where the image comes from, reaching such a legal basis
to indicate that "In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide".

Likewise, from the reading of the aforementioned sentence, it is observed that the argumentation
relative to the extreme related to the right to the image is carried out independently
to the one related to the unauthorized use of an image derived from a social network,
aspect on which the Constitutional Court pronounces both in the Fundamento
of Law III (“The digital society and the unauthorized use of the image of others”),

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/55

as in Fundamentals of Law IV (“The need for express authorization to
the authorization by third parties of the image of others in the digital environment") of the aforementioned
judicial pronouncement.

For these reasons, we cannot share the thesis of the defendant regarding the fact that in
STC 27/2020, of February 24, cannot be taken into account in this case
(amparo appeal 1369/2017).

It also indicates the party claimed in its pleadings to the proposal of
resolution, that the Judgment of the Court is not applicable to the present case
Supreme Court, of its First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec.
3318/2014), in relation to the capture and dissemination in court of the image of a
victim of gender violence since in that case "data are made public
such as first name, place of residence, close-up images that clearly
imply a complete and unequivocal identification of the victim, which has not happened
in the present case.”

We cannot share the opinion of the claimed party. To this end, let us examine the
mentioned sentence:

"1st) The interest of the questioned information is not discussed nor the right of the chain
television company sued to broadcast images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the
criminal case, since there is no limitation in this regard agreed by the body
judicial."

The same could be applied to the present case, that is to say, the interest of the
disputed information or the right of the media to disseminate the
statement of the victim during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since it did not
There is no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

"2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the identification of the applicant
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image."

In the case that has given rise to this disciplinary procedure, point
controversial is whether the identification of the intervener as a victim of a crime against
sexual integrity by broadcasting the undistorted voice, is also
included in the fundamental right of the requested party to transmit information
truthful or, on the contrary, was limited by the Fundamental Right to Protection
of Personal Data.

"3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/55

defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media.

In the case that we are analyzing, the claimed party should have acted prudently
of the diligent professional, identify the risk, assess it and adopt security measures
measures, avoiding the diffusion of the voice of the victim using procedures
technicians to distort the voice and prevent its recognition, as responsible for the
treatment, within the framework of the Fundamental Right to Data Protection of
Personal character.

Furthermore, in this case there is also additional information, as
as stated in the Fundamentals of Law IV, which further facilitates the
identification of the victim through his voice, since we are referring to a
highly mediated judicial procedure, continuously followed by various
media that provide information about the victim, his
environment, the violators and the violation suffered.

"7th) The identification of the plaintiff through her image and personal data
indicated and its direct link to an episode of gender violence and other
serious crimes, when the simultaneous or subsequent disclosure of data was foreseeable
referring to how the victim and her aggressor met and how they happened
criminal acts, assumes that the loss of anonymity violates both the right
of the plaintiff in her own image, by issuing her physical features, such as her
personal and family privacy, to the extent that some reserved data,
pertaining to his private life (who went to the Internet to start a relationship or the
intimate content of some of his talks), devoid of offensive entity in a
situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment in which any
person who watched those news programs and who resided in the locality of the
victim could know who they were referring to, so that the psychological damage inherent in
his status as a victim of crimes was added to the non-material damage consisting of the fact that
knew information about his private life that he had not consented to make public.

In the present case, the identification of the victim by broadcasting his voice without
distort, the additional information previously exposed and its direct link

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/55

with a crime against sexual integrity, supposes the loss of the victim's anonymity
to the extent that such data make it possible to identify it from the moment it
anyone who knows her, listen to the video released by the claimed party. AND
This is based on the undoubted fact that the voice, by itself, already identifies it.

VIII

The claimed party indicates in its pleadings to the proposed resolution
that it has not violated article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since "the publication of the
The victim's statement was made with full understanding of the legitimacy of
the same, since it had been disseminated directly by the judicial body
in charge of prosecuting the case, without distortion of the voice of the same or directive
any for news agencies and media in this regard.”

We have already indicated in the Legal Basis VI of this resolution that
any processing operation carried out within the scope of the claimed party
must be attributed only to him, regardless of processing operations that are
previously carried out by other subjects and that, in no case, exempt you from your
responsibility.
.
In addition, as already anticipated in the Fundamentals of Law IV of the
present resolution, it should be noted that "the statement of the victim" is not a
personal data in accordance with the definition established in article 4
of the GDPR. The personal data that is the subject of this procedure
sanctioner is the voice of the victim, regardless of the content of his statement
before the judicial body, a voice that is not necessary to know the content of the
narration and, therefore, for the medium to achieve its informative purpose.

Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR does not limit the excess of data, but the need. That is to say,
personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to the need" for the
that were collected, in such a way that, if the objective pursued can be achieved
without carrying out excessive data processing, this must be done in any case.

Similarly, recital 39 of the GDPR indicates that: "Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other media." Therefore, only the data that is "adequate,
relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose for which they are obtained or processed”.

If the claimed party had carried out a risk analysis prior to the
publication of the information, would have concluded:

- That there was a risk that someone who heard the victim's voice without distorting,
I could identify her.

- That hearing the victim's voice clearly is not necessary for the purpose
informative.

In short, the claimed party has not acted with the required diligence, that of
a professional, since the media are responsible for the treatment of
data of a personal nature, which habitually distort the voice with the purpose of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/55

that the person speaking is not recognized. In the exercise of his responsibility
proactively, they must know and comply with the regulations on the protection of
data, applying, among them, the principle of data minimization enshrined in the
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, which has not been contemplated by the claimed party in the
subject matter of this file.

IX

Finally, the claimed party considers that the amount of the penalty is excessive.
because, in his opinion, the circumstances do not exist for the application of the
aggravating factors used by the AEPD in its initial agreement, while considering
that he has forgotten a series of extenuating factors.

Regarding the aggravating circumstances:

- In relation to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
(article 83.2.a) of the GDPR), the defendant states that the precept that regulates it
states that it will take into account "the nature, scope or purpose of the operation of
treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of
the damages they have suffered."

Whenever (i) the treatment has a clear informative intention, (ii) the number of
affected is one, (iii) no damage or harm has been proven that has been
produced on the start date of the agreement of the disciplinary procedure, (iv) the
complainant did not address ABC at any time, which would have prevented the delay
at the time of exposure of the victim's voice and (v) the published video had a
virtually zero impact, the claimed party considers that there should not have been
applied this aggravating factor.

In this regard it should be noted:

(i) It is irrelevant that the purpose of the means of communication when publishing the video with the
victim's voice without distorting the information, because the truth is that with the
diffusion of the voice of that one without distorting, it has been put in certain risk of being
identified by people who were unaware of their status as victims, a risk that should
have been valued by the media and for which it is responsible.

The foregoing is criticized by the claimed party in its pleadings to the
motion for a resolution because:

- "So that the voice could have identified the victim clearly and unequivocally
Additional data would have been necessary, which in the present case was not provided.”

- "The AEPD is basing its thesis on the certain risk that the victim could be
identified by people who were unaware of their status as victims, which is no more
that a conjecture of the AEPD not based on proven facts.”

We have already indicated in the Fundament of Law IV of this resolution that the
The voice of any person is personal data and identifies or makes it identifiable
unequivocally, at least by the people who make up their closest circle or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/55

can know it in any way, as well as that it is irrelevant if the
additional information has not been disclosed by the requested party or is unknown to it.

On the other hand, it is not possible to share the thesis of the defendant regarding that it is
a conjecture that there is a certain risk that the victim could be identified by
people who were unaware of such a condition, since "certain risk" is one that is "certain,
sure and indubitable”, that which exists, regardless of whether it has finally
caused damage or not. Which means, in the present case, that it is indifferent that
whether or not someone has identified the victim through his voice, because the truth is that
there was a risk that someone would identify her.

In any case, it must be remembered that the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not, per se, absolute, but is limited by other rights
and public liberties. As stated in the Fundamentals of Law VI and
will be exposed in the Fundament of Law XIV, it is not about giving prevalence to a
fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more weight in a case
specific. If not, rather, to find a balance between the Fundamental Right to
Freedom of Information and the Fundamental Right to Data Protection
Personal, to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the
second, requiring that the communication medium carry out, in any case, a
weighting, which does not appear.

(ii) It is true that the number of victims is one. But the circumstance regulated in
Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR as an aggravating factor has not considered the number of
affected, but the rest of the aspects contained in the mentioned precept, the
which are important enough in themselves because of the serious intrusion that
has produced in the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data of a
person who has been the victim of a violent crime and crime against sexual integrity.

(iii) The damage or loss that has been caused to the victim is, as has been said
above, the certain risk of being identified by people who did not know their
condition of victim as a result of the loss of disposition and control over said data
personnel, as indicated in the initiation agreement.

This is criticized by the defendant in its statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution because “the alleged damage: (i) has not been stated by the victim herself; and
(ii) it has not been investigated since the victim has not at any time been part of
this procedure."

With such an argument it seems that the defendant is meaning that the damage
that must be produced to the victim, for there to be an infraction of the regulations of
protection of personal data, is that it has been identified to
through his voice. And if it is what is intended to be expressed, such thesis cannot be shared
because, as indicated previously, what is important is not whether the risk that
the victim is recognized has materialized or not, but whether there is a risk that
someone listening to the victim's voice without distortion, identify it. That is, it is
regardless of whether or not someone has identified the victim through her voice, because it
The important thing is that there was a certain risk that someone would identify her, which, as
We have already pointed out, it is a particularly serious fact in an event like the one that gives
place for the news

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/55

On the other hand, as indicated in the Legal Foundation V of the present
resolution, it must be remembered that, even without a manifestation of disagreement on the part of
of the victim, the claimed party has the obligation to respect the relative principles
to the processing of personal data contemplated in article 5 of the GDPR, among the
that the principle of data minimization is found, and be able to prove it in
based on the principle of proactive responsibility (article 5.2 of the GDPR).

(iv) It could be that the exposure time of the video with the voice of the victim without
distort would have been less if the complainant had addressed the party
claimed and it would have decided to withdraw the video. However, even in that case, the
removal of content would not have resulted from a spontaneous action of the
claimed party, which is when there really would have been a faster practice more
diligent by the media. And, in any case, the performance would have
always been after the publication of the video with the voice of the victim.

The video was posted on ***DATE.6, acknowledging the removal of the
same on ***DATE.4, the day on which she was notified of the urgent removal order of
content. That is, the video with the undistorted voice of the victim was available
for a little over a month.

That is, the video with the undistorted voice of the victim was published on the same day that
the newsworthy event took place, being available until the AEPD notified the party
claimed the aforementioned requirement, which shows that if there had not been
had the AEPD intervened, the video would have been available for longer.

For this purpose, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines 04/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines with
according to the RGPD, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation,
which state that "The measures adopted must be evaluated, in particular, in
relation to the element of opportunity, that is, the moment in which they are applied
by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, and its effectiveness. In this sense, it is more
It is likely that measures applied spontaneously before the start of the
investigation of the control authority are known by the person in charge or the
in charge of the treatment that the measures that have been applied after that
moment."

In this regard, the defendant, in its pleadings to the proposal for
resolution, understands that "the diligent attitude is not only derived from the acts performed
on their own initiative, but is also based on speed in the
removal of the news as soon as it became known that it was potentially
could be committing an illegal act, as well as in the predisposition and collaboration that
characterize ABC's attitude throughout the process, and that the AEPD does not seem to have
Keeping in mind."

It must be remembered that in this section we are referring to the duration of the
infraction, not to the degree of compliance with a requirement of the AEPD, an aspect that
will be developed later, since such an argument is also used by the party
claimed so that the proposed sanction is mitigated. So it is indifferent,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/55

regarding the circumstance regulated in article 83.2.a) of the GDPR as an aggravating circumstance,
the degree of diligence in responding to requests.

(v) Regarding the practically null impact of the published video, we have already referred to
such aspect in the Foundation of Law V.

- In relation to intentionality or negligence in the infringement (article 83.2.b) of the
GDPR) indicates the claimed party in its pleadings to the initiation agreement
that "Given the different burden of responsibility that weighs on a modality of
action or other, it would be imperative to attribute, in a logical interpretation of the text, to the
intentional action the character of "aggravating", and negligence the character, in its
case, of "mitigating"", concluding that, being the action of ABC negligent, it must
considered the same as a mitigation.

The Guidelines 04/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection on the calculation
of administrative fines in accordance with the GDPR, in its version of May 12,
2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "the absence of intention does not equate
necessarily to a decrease in severity. In fact, gross negligence
constitutes an increase in perceived seriousness, and in other cases negligence
could, at best, be considered neutral. On the other hand, in this regard,
It should be clear that even if the infringement is unintentional, it can
considered a serious infringement, depending on the other circumstances of the case of
cars.”

In this regard, it is necessary to cite the Judgment of the National Court of October 17,
2007 (rec. 63/2006), which indicates, in relation to entities whose activity carries out
coupled with continuous processing of customer data, that: "(...) the Supreme Court
has understood that imprudence exists whenever a legal duty is neglected
of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. AND
In assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined,
when the activity of the appellant is constant and abundant handling of data from
personal character must be insisted on the rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
legal provisions in this regard.

In relation to the aforementioned ruling, the defendant, in its pleadings brief to
resolution proposal, reiterates that it acted with the full understanding of
that: (i) the Provincial Court had released the video of the victim's statement
with all the necessary guarantees aimed at their protection, and (ii) the Atlas Agency, in
prior to the publication of the news, had in turn filtered the
contents to verify that the news would be published respecting all the guarantees
legal (…).”

We have already stated in the VI Law Basis that any operation of
treatment that is carried out within the scope of the claimed party must be attributed only to him,
regardless of treatment operations that have been previously carried out
by other subjects and that, in no case, exempt you from your responsibility. The media
of communication, as managers of the treatment of multiple data that know
within the exercise of their journalistic work, they must know and comply with the regulations

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/55

regarding data protection, applying, among them, the principle of minimization
of data enshrined in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

In the present case, the claimed party has not acted with the required diligence, the
characteristic of a professional, since the media are responsible for the
processing of personal data that habitually distorts the voice
so that the person speaking is not recognized, which is why in
In the present case, the claim of the claimed party of
consider his negligent conduct as an extenuating circumstance.

- In relation to the categories of data affected by the infringement (article 83.2.g)
of the GDPR, the claimed party, in its statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution, rejects the voice as a category of data liable to aggravate the sanction,
since the voice cannot be equated to other categories of personal data more
determining factors for the purpose of identifying the victim. It also considers that the
AEPD focuses on the seriousness of the crime committed against the victim and not on the
category of personal data processed in that context.

Since in the Fundamentals of Law IV it has already been indicated that the voice of
any person is personal data and identifies or makes them identifiable in a way
unequivocal, now we are going to focus on the justification of applying the circumstance
regulated in article 83.2.g) of the GDPR as an aggravating circumstance.

The initiation agreement states that such application is motivated by "The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious,
violent and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental
for the affected, since what happened is linked to her sexual life.” This does not mean
that the AEPD focuses on the seriousness of the crime committed, as interpreted by the part
claimed, but in the data relative to the fact that the person has been the victim of a violation
multiple, which is sensitive data.

A systematic and teleological interpretation of article 83.2.g) of the GDPR connects this
precept with other classifications offered by the text of the GDPR that, in addition,
respond better to the purpose pursued by the standard: graduating in the individual case the
administrative fine that must be imposed respecting in any case the principles of
proportionality and efficiency.

In this sense, recitals 51 and 75 of the GDPR distinguish a group of data
personal data that, by their nature, are particularly sensitive because of the
significant risk that they may entail, in the context of their treatment, for
fundamental rights and freedoms. The common denominator of all of them is that their
treatment involves a significant risk to the rights and freedoms
fundamental, as it can cause physical, material or
immaterial. This group or category of particularly sensitive data includes
the categories of specially protected data regulated by article 9 of the GDPR
-recital 51 of the GDPR- and, in addition, many other data not regulated in that
precept. Recital 75 of the GDPR mentions personal data in detail
whose treatment may entail a risk, of variable severity and probability, to
the rights and freedoms of natural persons as a consequence of the fact that they can
cause physical, material or immaterial damages. Among them he mentions

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/55

those whose treatment “could give rise to problems of discrimination, usurpation
identity fraud or fraud, financial loss, damage to reputation, loss of
confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of the
pseudonymization or any other significant economic or social harm; (…) data
relating to health or data on sexual life, (...), in the cases in which they are processed
personal data of vulnerable people, (…)”.

In fact, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection on the
calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the RGPD, in its version of 12
May 2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "Regarding the requirement of
take into account the categories of personal data affected (article 83, paragraph 2,
letter g) of the GDPR), the GDPR clearly outlines the types of data that deserve a
special protection and therefore a stricter response in terms of fines.
This refers, as a minimum, to the types of data referred to in articles 9 and
10 of the GDPR, and to data that does not fall within the scope of these articles
whose dissemination causes immediate damage or difficulties to the interested party.” immediate damage
that, in the present case, it is the certain possibility of recognizing the victim of a crime
violent and against sexual integrity (multiple rape).

But the claimed party, in its pleadings to the proposed resolution,
states that "it is not considered proven that the publication object of the present
requirement has caused real harm to the victim.”

As we have already said, the damage that has been caused to the victim is the
certain risk that someone hearing the victim's voice without distorting, the
identify. Risk that occurs in a certain way with the publication and dissemination of the
victim's voice

Regarding the mitigating factors, the defendant points out that they should be taken into
account the following:

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR, taking into account the lack of intentionality of
cause any harm with his action.

It has already been indicated above that what has really occurred is a lack of
due diligence, so such mitigation cannot be applied.

- Article 83.2.d) of the GDPR, "because their degree of responsibility must be understood in
the context of the chain responsibility that derives from the communication of the
personal data of the victim by the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.1, who
first collected the data and distributed it to the media, as well
as by the Atlas Agency, both responsible for the treatment and subject to the
data protection regulations.”

The precept whose mitigation the defendant intends to apply, refers to the
"degree of responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account
of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/55

Since the claimed party is responsible for the content that is published on
your web page, your assertion that an automated dumping is produced by
of a news agency on such a web page, without the claimed party being able to decide
which news and which materials are published and which are not, reveals a
total absence of adoption of technical and organizational measures in order to comply with
the principles of data protection, which also result in a lack of design
of the treatment, which is regulated in article 25 of the GDPR.

For this reason, it was agreed to practice as evidence to request the defendant to
indicate, among other things, what technical or organizational security measures
had implemented to guarantee that only data
personal data that are necessary for each of the specific purposes of the
treatment.

The respondent party in its brief of June 14, 2022 stated in this regard that "the
Logic says that the measures to be implemented are those dictated by the body
jurisdiction that has recorded the content and has disseminated it to
means, since it cannot be assumed that someone who has known the facts first hand,
has prosecuted them and has considered their dissemination legitimate, especially in the case of a
a special ascending entity such as a court, to which
presupposes diligence and care in all its performance.

In addition to the measures originally adopted by the Provincial Court of
***LOCATION.1, there is a second filter, which is the one carried out by ATLAS when
prepare the contents that it distributes through its service to verify that the
The news is published respecting all legal guarantees, as part of the agreement of
provision of informative content subscribed with its clients.”

It has already been indicated in the Foundation of Law VI that the actions carried out
both by the Provincial Court and by the news agency respond to other
treatments, with their own risks and security measures, not exempting
liability to the claimed party. But neither can they be considered mitigating
in the present case, because what is clear is that the defendant has not
implemented any technical or organizational measures to prevent the spread of the word
of the victim on its website, and therefore, comply with the principle of
data minimization of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

- Article 83.2.e) of the GDPR, "while ABC has always demonstrated a
due diligence in the processing of personal data that it processes as
responsible, not having been previously sanctioned by the AEPD.”

In this regard, the Judgment of the National Court, of May 5, 2021, rec.
1437/2020, provides us with the answer: "It considers, on the other hand, that it should
The non-commission of a previous infraction can be appreciated as mitigating. well, the
Article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that it must be taken into account for the imposition of the
administrative fine, among others, the circumstance "e) any previous offense committed
by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment". It is a circumstance
aggravating, the fact that the budget for its application does not meet entails
that cannot be taken into consideration, but does not imply or allow, as it claims
the plaintiff, its application as mitigation”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/55

- Article 83.2.f) of the GDPR, "due to ABC's prompt action before the
requirement to adopt provisional measures, as well as the absolute and total
ABC's cooperation with the AEPD throughout the procedure."

The degree of cooperation with the Agency cannot be considered as a mitigation either.
since the withdrawal orders that it issues are mandatory
in accordance with the provisions of article 69 of the LOPDGDD. The consideration of the
cooperation with the Agency as mitigation, as claimed by the claimed party,
is not linked to any of the cases in which there may be a collaboration or
cooperation or requirement by reason of a legal mandate, when the actions are
due and required by law, as in the case at hand, being indifferent to the
degree of diligence in responding to requests.

For this purpose, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines 04/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines with
according to the RGPD, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation,
which state that "it must be considered that the ordinary duty of cooperation is
mandatory and therefore should be considered neutral (and not a mitigating factor).”

This is confirmed in the CEPD Guidelines on the application and
setting of administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 3
of October 2017, in which it is stated that "That said, it would not be appropriate to have
In addition, take into account the cooperation that the law requires; For example, in any case
requires the entity to allow the control authority access to the facilities to
conduct audits or inspections.

Therefore, we can conclude that "cooperation" cannot be understood as that which
is required or mandatory by law for the person responsible for the
treatment, as in this case.

The claimed party ends its pleadings to the proposed resolution
mentioning the resolution to archive the actions of the AEPD in the file
EXP202100646, related to a "case of circumstances similar to those that are being
prosecute, but whose result differs greatly from the proposed resolution
disciplinary action against ABC”.

The claimed party indicates that "In the indicated file, the
the AEPD the publication of data that identifies the victim of a crime of rape
in various web spaces, including the digital newspaper Ediciones y Publicaciones el
Good Air, S.A. The AEPD carries out, among other actions, a request to said newspaper
requesting the withdrawal of the article published on its website or, failing that, the
anonymization of the data in such a way that the victim could not be identified
direct or indirect way. Having made the request, without specifying
the date of such action, the AEPD verified on March 28 that "it no longer appears
the identification of the victim in this article", proceeding, thus, to the file of the
performances.”

Article 47 of the LOPDGDD states that "It corresponds to the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection supervise the application of this organic law and the Regulation

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/55

(EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, exercise the functions established in article 57 and the
powers provided for in article 58 of the same regulation, in this law
organic and in its development provisions.”

Within the powers of article 58 of the GDPR is, in section 2.i), the
to “impose an administrative fine pursuant to article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this paragraph, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;".

If we turn to the aforementioned article 83 of the GDPR, we note that its section 1
indicates that "Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.” (underlining is ours).

The Guidelines 04/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection on the calculation
of administrative fines in accordance with the GDPR, in its version of May 12,
2022, submitted to public consultation, state that "a dissuasive fine is one that
it has a genuine deterrent effect. In this respect, a distinction can be made between
general deterrence (dissuading others from committing the same offense in the future) and the
specific deterrence (dissuade the recipient of the fine from committing the same offense again)
infringement). When imposing a fine, the supervisory authority takes deterrence into account
both general and specific.

(…) Whoever commits an infraction must fear that they will be fined.”

In the same sense, the CJEU Judgment in the Versalis Spa case, of June 13
of 2013, C-511/11, indicates that the "dissuasive nature may have as its objective not only
a "general deterrence", defined as an action to discourage all
companies, in general, that commit the infringement in question, but also a
'specific deterrence', consisting of dissuading the specific defendant from
break the rules again in the future.”

In the case of file EXP202100646, the AEPD decided to file the proceedings
since, as indicated in the Judgment of the Supreme Court, Third Chamber, of what
Administrative Litigation, 708/2017, of April 25 (rec. 606/2016), "Indeed,
The Administration enjoys a margin of discretion when deciding whether to initiate
or not a disciplinary procedure (...)”.

But it is clear that such an archive of actions has not had a dissuasive character, since
Subsequently, the claimed party has published in its digital newspaper the content of the
statement of the victim before the judge without distorting his voice, which is a
violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.

In such a way, that the imposition of a sanction on the party claimed for violation of the
article 5.1.c) of the GDPR is not only in accordance with the aforementioned article 83.1
of the GDPR, but also with article 29.2 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on
Legal Regime of the Public Sector, which, in relation to the principle of
proportionality of the sanctioning power, indicates that "The establishment of
pecuniary sanctions must provide that the commission of the typified offenses does not

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/55

is more beneficial to the offender than compliance with the rules
infringed.”

Sense in which the Third Chamber, of Contentious-
Administrative Court, of the Supreme Court in its judgment of May 11, 2006 (appeal
of appeal 7133/2003): "It must also be taken into account that one of the criteria
governing the application of said principle administrative penalty regime (criterion
collected under the rubric of "principle of proportionality" in section 2 of the
Article 131 of the aforementioned Law 30/1992) is that the imposition of pecuniary sanctions
It should not be assumed that the commission of the typified offenses is more
beneficial to the offender than compliance with the rules violated”.

For all the foregoing, all the allegations made by the party are dismissed.
claimed to the initiation agreement.

X

The voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is personal data
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said GDPR:

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image, as well as the voice of a person is personal data, as will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
"any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons",
This question is not controversial."

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as: "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/55

whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, implies a processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person responsible for the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations for the data controller set forth in the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

eleventh

This procedure is initiated because the claimed party published, on the website
referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a
multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case
that was very mediatic. The victim's voice was clearly appreciated when recounting
with all the crudeness of details the multiple rape suffered. All this constitutes a
processing of personal data of the victim.

People have the power of disposal over their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its diffusion, resulting, without a doubt, deserving of
protection of the person whose personal data is disclosed in violation of the law
legal.

Thus, STC 292/2000, of November 30, provides that "the content of the right
Fundamental to data protection consists of a power of disposal and control
on personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which can this third party
collect, and which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposition and
control over personal data, which constitute part of the content of the right
fundamental to data protection are legally specified in the power to
consent to the collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent
storage and treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the
state or an individual. And that right to consent to knowledge and treatment,
computerized or not, of personal data, requires as complements
essential, on the one hand, the ability to know at all times who has
these personal data and to what use you are submitting them, and, on the other hand, the power
oppose such possession and uses”.

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all controllers must respect the principles of
treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR which establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");"

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/55

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection can
give in to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it on a case-by-case basis.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
affectation of the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.

twelfth

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even
when an equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
ordinarily the first is usually endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, after all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, the limits set are exceeded
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of
GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
cases in which the question of legitimate interest may arise, stating that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

XIII

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the
civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/55

Thus, we will cite, for all, STC 27/2020, of February 24 (amparo appeal 1369-
2017) that it has, in relation to the image of a person, and based on the fact
uncontroversial that it makes it identifiable, that “…the debated question is reduced to
consider whether the non-consensual reproduction of the image of an anonymous person is
that is, of someone who is not a public figure, but who suddenly and
involuntarily a role in the newsworthy event, in this case as a victim of
failed attempted murder by his brother and his subsequent suicide,
implied an illegitimate interference in their fundamental right to their own image (art.
18.1 CE).

[…]

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
regardless of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
This data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to be transmitted (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
December; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a
response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that his condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. Therefore, the present
Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
raises our society, claims, based on the recognition of the dignity of
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the STS, from its First Civil Chamber, 272/2011, of April 11 (rec.
1747/2008), in which, regarding the data necessary to provide a
information and limits to the public interest states that "b) Trivial information is not
protects (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing unnecessary data in a case of
rape (full name, last name initials, street portal where
the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not respect the reservation, only
seek to satisfy curiosity, produce disturbances or annoyances, and reveal
aspects of personal and private life unnecessarily, allowing neighbors,
close people and relatives full identification of the victim and knowledge
in great detail about an act that seriously violated his dignity (STC
185/2002) or about a disease that has no public interest and affects
direct to the irreducible field of intimacy and that reveals itself to the effect of a pure
joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/55

Likewise, the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec.
3318/2014), in relation to the capture and dissemination in court of the image of a
victim of gender violence provided that "1.) The interest of the
disputed information or the right of the defendant television station to broadcast
images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since there is no record
no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the applicant's identification
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff through his
image and personal data indicated and its direct link to an episode of
gender violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, supposes that the loss of the
anonymity would violate both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the
broadcast of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent that
that some reserved data, belonging to his private life (who went to the Internet
to start a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment
in which any person who watched those news programs and who resided in the
location of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of crimes was added to the moral damage

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/55

consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public." (underlining is ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in attention to the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
For example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or name and surname.

fourteenth

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the claimed party
published, on the website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge
of a victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined by jurisprudence, of endowing
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.
The reconciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European Union mandates such reconciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronting it
with other rights and freedoms does not allow the same in any case and with all breadth,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually endow it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a woman (...) who has suffered a multiple rape. In the
published recording, she is heard recounting, with great emotional charge, the aggression
sexuality suffered in all crudeness, narrating (...).

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the victim status of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of crime, as well as the recent Organic Law 10/2022, of 6
of September, of integral guarantee of sexual freedom, foresee a special
need to protect victims of crimes against sexual freedom or
sexual indemnity. In addition, the aforementioned Statute of the victim of crime
it also provides special protection for victims of violent crimes. and in the
case examined both circumstances concur.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/55

In this case, the situation of the victim must be considered (who is not in the
same level of equality as the defendants) and what the diffusion of their voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without constraining the supply of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable to the form, the
medium in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate affectation of the data
personnel and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the obvious informative public interest in the news is not denied,
Given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not a question of
to diminish the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of
make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, for all the STC 58/2018, of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or those dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of
that their subjective personality rights are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, its maximum level of legitimizing effectiveness, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
granting general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures".

The STJUE (Second Chamber) of February 14, 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs
Buivids, mentions various criteria to ponder between the right to respect
of privacy and the right to freedom of expression, among which are
“the contribution to a debate of general interest, the notoriety of the affected person,
the object of the report, the previous behavior of the interested party, the content, the
form and the repercussions of the publication, the form and the circumstances in which it is
obtained information and its veracity (see, in this regard, the judgment of the ECtHR of
June 27, 2017, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

In such a way that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting, at greater
abundance of what was meant in the previous section, that in the case examined

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/55

the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may entail a new penalty
to the already suffered The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, in such a way that
so that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) judgment 697/2019, of 19
December, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor does it justify, the
affects the fundamental right to one's own image [in this case to the protection of
personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not save the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

It is worth mentioning the breach of point 1 of the Digital Pact for the
protection of persons, signed by the entity involved, which establishes that "The
signatories to the Charter will refrain from identifying in any way the victims of
assaults, acts of violence or sexual content in their information or
publish information from which, in general, your identity can be inferred
in the case of people of no public relevance. All this without prejudice to the fact that the
non-public persons may be involved in newsworthy events, in which case
the informative coverage will be the necessary one to give adequate fulfillment to the right
information, taking into account the peculiarities of each case".

fifteenth

Every person responsible for the treatment has conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, in terms of what interests us, proactive responsibility,
article 5.2 of the GDPR, the assessment of risks and the implementation of measures
of adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
In the case we are examining, this one is particularly sensitive.

Such obligations do not decline because we are before a data controller
that it is a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
identifiable and can be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very likely risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases
of dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to
that with the diffusion of the voice of the victim she is being sentenced again to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16th

51/55

The claimed party has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the
purpose for which they were processed, which constitutes an infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The infringement attributed to the claimed party is typified in article
83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines" provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

seventeenth

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are effective in each individual case,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

"Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/55

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/55

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In this case, the following graduation criteria are considered concurrent:

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
the personal data of your voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

Intentional or negligent infringement: Although it is considered that there was no
intentionality on the part of the media, it is concluded that it was
especially negligent in not ensuring a procedure that guaranteed the
protection of personal data in such sensitive circumstances, especially
when on many occasions the voice in the news is distorted in order to
that the person speaking is not recognized.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

XVIII

The text of the resolution establishes the offense committed and the
facts that have given rise to the violation of data protection regulations, of
which clearly infers what are the measures to adopt, notwithstanding that the
type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments to implement them
corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/55

He fully knows his organization and has to decide, based on the responsibility
proactive and risk-focused, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE DIARIO ABC, S.L., with NIF B82824194, for an infraction
of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, defined in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of
50,000.00 euros (FIFTY THOUSAND euros).

SECOND: Confirm the following provisional measures imposed on DIARIO ABC,
S.L.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to DIARIO ABC, S.L..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/55

Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

