1/5

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00137/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the sanctioned procedure PS/00137/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection before the entity TITU S.C.P. (BLOMSBURY Nightclub) with NIF
0J55708713 (hereinafter, "the entity claimed"), by virtue of complaints filed
by Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, “claimant 1”), by D. B.B.B. (hereinafter, “the
claimant 2”) and by Dª C.C.C. (hereinafter, "claimant 3") and based on
the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 02/20/19, you had entry into this Agency in writing submitted by
claimant 1, in which she states, among others, that: “On 11/17/18 a
inspection at the BLOOMSBURY nightclub, in the town of Tarragona, by the
Guardia Urbana, verifying that there are three security cameras installed in
the doors of the premises. For this reason, as a neighbor of the premises I am affected in privacy.
A report from the Guàrdia Urbana XXXXXXXXXX is provided”.

In the report made by the Urban Guard of Tarragona on 11/17/18, it is indicated,
among others: “At the request of the Guardia Urbana radio station motivated by
some complaints about noise nuisance from the commercially named establishment
"BLOOMSBURY", located at 24 Mayor Street, the cape with Tip 878 and the agents
with UPA Tips 603, 957 and 986, we inform that: That at 11:50 p.m. on the 17th
November 2018, the agents move in Riudecols street no. 6, where
An interview was conducted with the complainant, informing the agents of the
nuisance noise and vibrations of music that are perceived at home, the
which could be verified how they were noticed when listening to the music from the
road, coming from the BLOOMSBURY establishment. checked the
resulting positive inconvenience, the agents meet with the person in charge of the
establishment, communicating the agents the reason for the inspection, by the
nuisances verified, so a function check was carried out
of the limiting device (...)
 
It is reported that the agents observed the installation of some cameras, 3
specifically, two on the main façade focusing on the main sidewalk of the
establishment, calle Mayor 24 and another in calle Riudecols on the rear façade of the
establishment focusing on the emergency exit door. At the same time as in
Inside this there are some recording cameras. that the establishment does not
It has information posters of the existence of the video surveillance system. The
The person in charge of the establishment is unaware of the regulations on this type of system.
The agents informed him of the aspects established by the LOPD. The person in charge of
establishment indicates that the placement of the cameras is to be able to protect
acts of violent access controller of some people who are not allowed
the entrance. The agents have observed the following infractions: (…) the cartels
information about the existence of the video surveillance system and the lack of
documentation of the installation company of the video surveillance system where it is stated
registration in the general data protection register.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
actions for its clarification, under the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, RGPD). Thus, on 03/12/19,
directs an information request to the claimed company so that it proves that the
installation of the cameras is in accordance with data protection regulations.

THIRD: On 03/13/19, you had entry into this Agency in writing submitted by
claimant 2, in which he states, among others, that: “The BLOOMSBRRY nightclub
has several video surveillance cameras installed on its exterior facades without
billboards". Photos are attached.
 
FOURTH: On 03/27/19, this Agency received a new document
filed by claimant 1, in which she states, among others, that: "It is my
knowledge, as I have been informed by delivery of a photocopy of the report
inspection of the Urban Guard of Tarragona on 02/12/19, which from the
month of October 2017 “TITU S.C.P.” as owner of the Discotheque
Bloomsbury, located on Calle Mayor 24 in Tarragona, has installed three security cameras
video surveillance irregularly and illegally, in breach of current regulations in the
current legislation. As indicated in the Urban Guard Report.

On 02/12/19 there was explicit knowledge of this situation of illegality
of long-term in the framework of a meeting held in the premises of the Guard
Urbana where I am informed that said Inspection Report was transferred to the
Department of Opening of Establishments of the Tarragona City Council for
that was part of File 841/17, which the City Council itself opened against the
Bloomsbury Nightclub (TITU SCP), in November 2017, for the reception of
countless complaints due to its operation; Also, I am informed that the
Tarragona Urban Guard has officially notified the infractions
administrative observed in its Inspection Report for the month of November
2018 before the AEPD.

As of the date this communication is written, 03/22/19, there is no record
visual or documentary of the existence of the corresponding authorization for the
installation and operation of the cameras as well as the posters
information about the existence of the cameras or the registration in the General Registry
Data Protection. In order to document the above. is provided
the following documentation: a) Notification from the Tarragona City Council dated
February 16, 2019. b) Photographs of the illegal cameras installed and in
Operation since November 2017.

FIFTH: On 04/16/19 a letter is received at this Agency from claimant 3,
indicating, among others, that: “In the Bloomsbury nightclub, both in the main entrance,
how in the back where it has the emergency exit, it has cameras placed
video surveillance without signaling and focusing on public roads. I know there are reports
of the municipal police warning the property that the captured images are
Personal data. On the other hand, they do not have the company documentation
video surveillance system installer.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

SIXTH: According to the certificate issued by the State Post Office and
Telegraphs, the requirement indicated in point "SECOND" was attempted to notify
at calle Joan Fuster i Ortells, 14, 4,4,3; 43007 Tarragona, being returned
to the origin with the review of “unknown”, on 03/19/19.

SEVENTH: Consulted on 04/19/19, the Central Mercantile Registry, does NOT exist
any data referring to the entity TITU S.C.P.; neither to the denomination “Bloomsbury”, nor
to NIF 0J55708713.

EIGHTH: On 05/12/19, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed entity, for alleged
infringement of article 5 RGPD. Infraction typified in article 83.5 a) and
considered very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.a) of the
LOPDGDD, granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate.

NINTH: According to a certificate issued by the Postal Service, the notification of the
opening of disciplinary proceedings, addressed to the BLOOMSBURY DISCOTHEQUE (TITU,
SCP) at the address: C/ Mayor 24; 43003 of Tarragona, has been returned to
origin, with the annotation of, “Unknown”, on 05/20/19. Thus the things, with date
06/11/19, the publication, in the Single Edictal Board of the BOE, of the
notification of the agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure PS/00137/2019, before
the impossibility of notification at home.

According to a certificate issued by the Postal Service, the notification addressed to the entity
TITU, SCP (BLOOMSBURY DISCOTHEQUE) at c/ Joan Fuster i Ortells, 14,
4,4,3; 43007 Tarragona, has been returned to origin, with the annotation of,
“Unknown”, on 06/03/19. Thus, on 06/11/19, the
publication, on the BOE's Single Edictal Board, of the notification of the start-up agreement
of the sanctioning procedure PS/00137/2019, given the impossibility of notification in
the domicile.

TENTH: The entity claimed has not submitted to this Agency any written or
allegation, within the period granted for this purpose.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, a sanctioning procedure is initiated due to the existence of 3
video surveillance cameras installed, two on the main facade of the establishment
BLOOMSBURY nightclub, in the town of Tarragona, focusing on the sidewalk
main street, calle Mayor 24, and another on calle Riudecols, on the rear façade of the
establishment focusing on the emergency exit door. According to a report from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

Urban Guard of Tarragona, there are also several security cameras inside
security. The establishment does not have the informative posters of the existence
of the video surveillance system or the documentation of the installation company of the
cameras.

The installation of this type of device must obey some cause/reason
plausible, which allows this Agency to assess the proportionality of the
extent, especially if it comes into play with the rights/freedoms of third parties, in areas
where it can travel freely.

As a general rule, capturing images for security purposes, by the
public thoroughfare must be carried out by the Security FFCC, since they are responsible for
prevention of criminal acts and the guarantee of safety in the aforementioned public thoroughfare,
in accordance with what is regulated by Organic Law 4/1997, of 4/08, and its Regulation of
developing. This rule admits some exceptions, since, on some occasions, for the
protection of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or in
inside, it may be necessary to ensure the purpose of security recording
of a portion of the public highway. That is, cameras and camcorders installed with
security purposes may not obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture a portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

The art. 4 section 2 of Instruction 1/2006 (AEPD) provides the following: “Only
shall consider the installation of cameras or video cameras admissible when the purpose
monitoring cannot be obtained through other means that, without requiring efforts
disproportionate, are less intrusive to people's privacy and to
your right to personal data protection.

The facts described above suppose a violation of art. 5.1.c) RGPD, given
that the cameras exercise excessive control over an area of free transit.

III

Article 83.5 of the RGPD provides that: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount: a) the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9.

The sanction to be imposed must be graded according to the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with recital 148 of the RGPD itself, which provides for the
possibility of punishing with a warning in certain circumstances.

In the present case, it has been taken into account for the application of the warning that
These are company facilities that require security and there is legitimacy
for the installation and collection of images in these cases.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity DISCOTECA BLOOMSBURY (TITU, SCP) by
infringement of Article 5 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction
of warning.

SECOND: REQUEST the entity DISCOTECA BLOOMSBURY (TITU, SCP), to
that, within a period of one month from this act of notification, proceed to modify the
orientation of the cameras, ceasing to record the public thoroughfare, thus adjusting to the
regulations in force. In addition, you must provide a photograph that you have on the poster
approved video surveillance.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the DISCOTECA entity
BLOOMSBURY (TITU, SCP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

