1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00148/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated August 15, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (*hereinafter, the claimed one). The
reasons on which the claim is based are installation of a video surveillance camera
at the top of the door facing the common space, without informing the community of
owners.

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

presence of the camera in question.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD: On June 23, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 07/13/20 allegations are received from the accused party
succinctly stating the following:

-the claim is unjustified because the camera is placed in the third
plant in the background above my door and partially focusing on the two floors of
face that they thank me for the deterrent protection of the camera.

This Lord's apartment located on the ground floor does not receive the slightest
uptake …nor the other lower floors. However, we have followed
recommendations and redirected it to the corner of our door.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

-The placement is justified due to the robbery suffered in the apartment several years ago,

reported to the Civil Guard.

-This Lord's claim is due to revenge for the installation of the

elevator judicially obtained by having three disabled people (...).

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 08/15/19, this AEPD received a claim from the complainant,
transferring as main fact the following:

“installation of a video-surveillance camera at the top of the door oriented

towards common space, without informing the community of owners” (folio nº 1).

Second. The neighbor is identified as the main person responsible for the installation.
Don B.B.B., which wields various thefts in the property for the installation of the
same for dissuasive reasons.

Third. It has been proven that the device is not operational, as it does not carry out treatment
of any personal data.

Fourth. According to the defendant's statement, he has proceeded to reorient the
same in order to avoid any inconvenience to the denouncing neighbor.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of date of entry into
this AEPD 08/15/19 through which the following is transferred as the main event:
tea:

“They are installing a video-surveillance camera at the top of the door

oriented towards common space, without informing the community of owners”.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras should preferably be oriented towards the space
particular, avoiding intimidating neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well
how to control their transit areas without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, that they are inti-
measured by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

So that a community of owners can install surveillance cameras
in its common areas, it is necessary that said installation be agreed by the Board
of owners, taking into account, for this, what is established in article 17 of the Law
of Horizontal Property on the votes necessary for the approval of said agreement.
do (favorable vote of three-fifths of the total number of owners who, in turn,
represent three-fifths of the participation quotas).

III

On 07/13/20, a response was received in this AEPD from the party denounced manifestly
festing various "disagreements" with the complaining party, claiming to be responsible
responsible for the installation of the device that is the subject of the complaint, for dissuasive reasons, ca-
receiving the same operability.

Likewise, it states that it has reoriented it to avoid any type of
"annoyance" to the denouncing neighbor, without it having been his intention to annoy him
some with the same

For an administrative infraction to occur in the matter at hand
pa, there must be a "data processing" duly proven by the Administration
acting administration, an issue that has been clarified with the brief of allegations to the
the device not be operational, fulfilling a merely dissuasive function.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

In a recent Judgment of the Supreme Court (STS 3505/2019, of November 7), it was
has determined that no one has the obligation to endure a permanent uncertainty.
about whether or not the camera is operational.

Therefore, it is recommended that in the future this type of device be installed
felled in the private area, avoiding the intimidation of third parties or agreeing on the
measure in the Board of owners, the community members being informed about it.

Property owners may agree to install cameras of the type described
tas, complying with the regulations in force or obtaining free guidance in the
telephone numbers for Citizen Services of this Agency, briefly explaining the subject.

IV

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal
or administrative (TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in
any of its manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
contradictory procedure in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that the reported device lacks
operability, so it does not "process personal data" to date, which is why
that it is appropriate to order the Archive of this administrative procedure.

The rest of the issues are not subject to the competence of this Agency, since
being resolved in the Community of owners, in accordance with the regulations
is specific in the matter (eg Horizontal Property Law).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction in the framework of the protection
of data.
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B. and REPORT the
result of the actions to the complainant Mr. A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

