Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
to the draft law on the recognition of qualifications
professionals in the field of inland navigation and bearing
modification of the amended law of 28 July 1973 creating a
navigation service

Deliberation n°29/2020 of December 17, 2020

 

 
In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General on Data Protection) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which Article 7 of the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.
 
By letter dated August 18, 2020, Minister of Mobility and Public Works
invited the National Commission to comment on the preliminary draft law on the
recognition of professional qualifications in the field of inland navigation and
amending the amended law of 28 July 1973 creating a service of the
navigation (hereinafter the “draft law”).
 
The purpose of the draft law is in particular to transpose into national law the directive (EU)
2017/2397 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 relating to the
recognition of professional qualifications in the field of inland navigation and
repealing Council Directives 91/672/EEC and 96/50/EC (hereinafter the "Directive"). The
directive aims to establish a common framework for the recognition of
minimum professional qualifications in the field of inland navigation.
 
The Directive is complemented by Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2020/12 of 2 August
2019 regarding standards for skills and knowledge and
corresponding skills, practical tests, approval of simulators and the ability
Medical, by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/182 of 14 January 2020 on
the models relating to professional qualifications in the field of inland navigation
and by Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/473 of 20 January 2020 as regards

 

 
 

 

concerns the standards applicable to the databases relating to certificates of qualification
of the Union, service books and logbooks.
 
Insofar as the draft bill under opinion transposes the directive into national law, the
National Commission will limit its observations to the legal provisions concerning the
concrete implementation of this directive in Luxembourg.
 
This Notice will address issues relating to the data protection aspects to be
personal character raised by the articles of Chapters 3 and 4 of the draft law.
 

I.

On the processing of data carried out by the Minister

 
It appears from reading the draft bill that the minister having transport in his
powers (hereinafter the "Minister") will collect and process data (i) when issuing,
renewal and suspension, respectively the withdrawal of the certificates of qualification of
the Union and specific authorisations1, (ii) when accessing state files2 and (iii) when
the keeping of registers as referred to in Article 20 of the draft law.
 
Before examining in more detail the processing carried out on these occasions (points B to D), the
National Commission makes a few general observations (point A below).
 

A. General Considerations

 
First of all, it should be noted that Article 19 entitled “Protection of personal data
personnel” indicates in particular that the GDPR applies to the processing of personal data
personnel provided for by law3, specifies the purposes for which the data will be processed4,
refers to the rights of the persons concerned5 and specifies that the Minister is responsible
treatment6.
 

1. On the reference to the GDPR (Article 19 paragraphs (1) and (3) of the draft law)

 
Although paragraph (1) of Article 19 is a literal repetition of paragraph (1) of Article
24 of the directive, the CNPD wonders whether it is necessary, or even appropriate, to provide that the
GDPR applies to the processing of personal data provided for by the preliminary draft of

                                                           
1 Articles 8 et seq.
2 Article 19 paragraph (5)
3 Article 19 paragraph (1)
4 Article 19 paragraph (2)
5 Article 19 paragraph (3)
6 Article 19 paragraph (4)
 

 

 
 

law while the GDPR is, as a European regulation, mandatory in all its elements
and directly applicable in Luxembourg.
 
In addition, paragraph (3) of Article 19 of the draft law reproduces the wording of Article 24
paragraph (4) of the Directive by providing that the persons whose data are processed are
previously informed of this processing and that they have the right to access their data
personal information and to have a copy of this data, on request, at any time.
 
The CNPD wonders whether this provision would not be superfluous in relation to the provisions
which are already provided for by the GDPR with regard to the right to information of individuals
concerned7 as well as the right of access of the persons concerned8.
 
For all intents and purposes, the National Commission takes the liberty of drawing the attention of the authors of the preliminary
draft law on the problem linked to the fact of partially or fully reproducing the text
of a European regulation in the internal legal order. Indeed, the Council of State recalls
regularly in its opinions the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union according to
which the Member States must not hinder the direct applicability of the regulations nor
hide the European nature9.
 

2. On the purposes of the processing (Article 19 paragraph (2) of the draft law)

 
The authors of the draft law are to be congratulated on the fact that they have specified the purposes
processing of personal data.
 
However, and although these provisions are a repetition of the wording of Article 24 paragraph
(3) of the directive, the National Commission regrets that these are not more detailed,
in particular according to the various treatments carried out by the Minister. This is worth everything
particularly for access by the Minister to data from files held by other
state administrations.
 
The CNPD will return to this point later.
 

3. On the designation of the controller

 
Finally, with regard to Article 19 paragraph (4), which is an addition to the Directive, the
CNPD wonders the reason for this provision when it is already apparent

                                                           
7 Articles 13 and 14 GDPR
8 Article 15 GDPR
9 See par. ex. the opinion of the Council of State of July 17, 2020 on draft law no. 7537 relating to certain methods of application and the
sanction of Regulation (EU) No 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 promoting fairness and
transparency for companies using online intermediation services
 

 

 
 

sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 23 of the draft bill that the Minister has the quality of
controller for the processing of personal data arising from
of said items.
 
In addition, the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to
processing of personal data to which reference is made has been repealed by the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime. It is therefore appropriate to refer
to the legislation currently in force, namely Article 4, point 7) of the GDPR.
 

B. On the processing implemented in the context of the delivery,
renewal, suspension and withdrawal of certificates of qualification
of the Union and specific authorizations
 

Pursuant to Articles 8 and following of the draft law, the CNPD understands that the Minister
collection of personal data in the context of the issue, renewal,
the suspension and withdrawal of Union qualification certificates and authorizations
specific.
 

1. On the condition of good repute (Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law)

 
Even if article 8 of the draft law constitutes a quasi-faithful reproduction of article 11 of the
directive, it should be noted that an additional condition has been provided for in paragraph (1)
letter d). Indeed, the draft bill indicates that applicants must provide the Minister with the
"supporting documents" satisfactorily establishing that they meet the criteria
of good repute.
 
Thus, the applicant, in order to establish his good repute, will have to provide a "criminal record extract
recent or an equivalent document from the place of usual residence that does not provide a
criminal conviction cast as res judicata pronouncing a prison sentence
at least six months for theft, fraud, breach of trust, willful attack on the integrity of
the person, sexual assault or offense against the laws on narcotics or conduct in
drunk or under the influence of alcohol. However, this condition is not a required condition.
by the directive.
 
The authors of the draft bill specify that the provision under notice was added "because
of the equivalent approach in the Rhine regime and in order to maintain a high level of quality”.
However, the Rhine regime applicable to Rhine navigation personnel, to which the
authors of the draft bill refer10, is a separate regime from the directive and is not

                                                           
10 The regulations relating to navigation personnel on the Rhine adopted by the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine
 

 

 
 

governed by it. Therefore, the CNPD wonders whether it is relevant to provide for this condition
supplement provided by an international organization. By adding such a condition,
wouldn't the draft law under opinion result in an incorrect transposition of the directive?
 
Furthermore, the National Commission is not in a position to assess, on the basis of the comments
of the authors of the aforementioned draft law, if the collection of such data respects the principle
minimization of data provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the GDPR. The authors of
the draft bill should, indeed, explain the reasons why they believe that the
collection of such data is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the
with regard to the purposes for which they are processed.
 
Furthermore, the authors of the draft law should be aware that in
the Luxembourg legal order, the communication of information relating to decisions of
justice is done by issuing extracts from the criminal record in accordance with the amended law of 29
March 2013 relating to the organization of criminal records (hereinafter the “Law of March 29, 2013”). This
law creates several bulletins with a breakdown of the entries found on the
respective bulletins. The National Commission therefore recommends specifying in the preliminary
bill which bulletin the applicants will have to provide to the Minister11. Furthermore, it would be useful
to specify what is meant by a “recent” extract from the criminal record, providing by
example that the extract must date from less than 1 month.
 
In the event that bulletin No. 2 is covered by Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law,
it should be noted that this bulletin is not issued to the data subject himself but, under
certain conditions, to the public authorities listed in article 8 of the law of March 29, 2013,
respectively in article 1 of the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016 establishing the list
administrations and legal persons governed by public law who may request a bulletin N°2 or
No. 3 of the criminal record with the written or electronic agreement of the person concerned (hereinafter the
“Grand-ducal regulation of 23 July 2016”).
 
Thus, it follows from Article 1, point 1) of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 23 July 2016 that the
“Minister having Transport in his attributions” can obtain a copy of bulletin N°2
“for the instruction of any request for approval, license or permit addressed to a service
of his competence”. The National Commission wonders whether the issue of certificates of
Union qualifications could be covered by this provision.
 
With regard to bulletin N°3, this can be delivered to the data subject himself.
However, article 8-1 of the law of March 29, 2013 also provides for the possibility of issuing this
bulletin to third parties, including in particular administrations and legal entities governed by public law

                                                           
11 In view of the convictions listed in Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law, the CNPD considers that only
Bulletins Nos. 2 and 3 are likely to be targeted by the authors of the draft bill.
 

 

 
 

listed by the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016. It should be noted that the Minister
having transport in its attributions is not among the public authorities including
listed.
 
In view of the wording of Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law, the Commission
national understands that it is the applicant's responsibility to provide the Minister with an extract from the
court and that the draft law does not provide for the possibility for the Minister to be issued
directly, under the conditions provided for by the law of 29 March 2013 and the Grand-Ducal regulation
of July 23, 2016, the bulletin in question.
 
In view of the foregoing, it would be appropriate for clarifications as to the articulation of the
provisions of the law of March 29, 2013 and the Grand-Ducal regulation of July 23, 2016, on the one hand,
with Article 8 paragraph (1) letter d) of the draft law, on the other hand, be made by
the authors of the draft law.
 
For all practical purposes, it should be noted that Bill No. 7691, tabled on November 2, 2020,
aims to specify the various procedures of "reputability control" currently
provided for in several pieces of legislation and which come under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice12.
The provisions of the draft law relating to good repute would therefore not be
likely to be targeted by the aforementioned project. However, and if this should not be the case, do not
shouldn't bill no. 7691 be adapted in order to incorporate the provisions relating to
good repute that appear in the draft bill under opinion?
 

2. On medical fitness (Article 8 paragraph (1) letter c))

 
It should be recalled that the personal data which would be collected by the Minister in order to
to certify that a candidate has the required medical aptitudes are to be qualified as data
say “sensitive” within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR. These are indeed related to the health of
candidates. The processing of such data therefore requires specific protection and is
subject to stricter requirements.
 

                                                           
12 Bill amending 1° the Code of Criminal Procedure 2° the New Code of Civil Procedure 3° the law of 7 July
1971 relating to repressive and administrative matters, institution of experts, translators and sworn interpreters and supplementing
the legal provisions relating to the swearing in of experts, translators and interpreters 4° of the amended law of 9 December 1976
relating to the organization of notaries 5° of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting 6° of the amended law
of March 7, 1980 on judicial organization 7° of the amended law of November 7, 1996 on the organization of the courts of the order
administrative 8° of the law of 30 December 1981 on compensation in the event of ineffective preventive detention 9° of the amended law
of March 15, 1983 on arms and ammunition 10° of the amended law of March 2, 1984 relating to the compensation of certain victims of
bodily injury resulting from an offense and the repression of fraudulent insolvency 11° of the amended law of 4 December
1990 on the organization of the service of judicial officers 12° of the law of 31 January 1998 on the approval of adoption services
and definition of the obligations incumbent on them 13° of the law of 6 May 1999 relating to penal mediation and amending
various provisions a) of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on judicial organization, b) of the social insurance code 14° of
the law of 12 November 2002 relating to private guarding and surveillance activities 15° of the amended law of 7 June 2012 on
the court officers
 

 

 
 

In order to establish that applicants meet the proficiency standards, applicants must issue
a medical certificate based on the procedure referred to in Article 18 of the draft law.
 
Article 18 provides in particular that applicants “demonstrate their medical fitness by
submitting to the Minister a valid medical certificate issued by a physician recognized by the
Minister, on the basis of an examination confirming medical fitness”. The National Commission
therefore understands that the Minister will only be sent a certificate confirming or not
the applicant's medical fitness.
 
In addition, medical fitness standards specifying fitness requirements
medical, in particular with regard to the tests that doctors must carry out are
detailed in Annex III of the Directive as well as in Annex IV of Delegated Directive (EU) 2020/12
of 2 August 2019 supplementing the directive.
 
This article is a faithful transposition of article 23 of the directive and does not call for any
comments from the CNPD.
 

3. On the verification of the authenticity and validity of documents

 
It appears from Articles 8 and 9 of the draft law that the Minister “verifies the authenticity and the
validity of the documents provided by the applicants”. Article 23 paragraph (1) of the preliminary draft
further provides that "[t]he Minister shall take appropriate measures to prevent fraud
and other illegal practices regarding Union certificates, service books, booklets
board, the medical certificates and the registers provided for by this law”.
 
The National Commission understands that such measures aim to prevent fraud and other
illegal practices. Nevertheless, in the absence of precision in the commentary of the articles, it
wonders by what means the Minister intends to verify the authenticity and validity of the
documents. Is the verification of the authenticity and validity of documents done by means of
access to state files, such as those listed in subsection (5) of section 19 of
the draft bill? If so, this should be clearly stated in the draft law.
 
If access to other state files than those listed in the aforementioned article should be provided
then this should be clearly determined and framed by the draft law.
 

4. On Article 21 entitled “Follow-up”

 
Article 21 of the draft law provides for the creation of a monitoring system, particularly with regard to
concerns the “issuing and updating of Union qualification certificates, booklets of

 

 
 

 

service and logbooks”. This article is a quasi-literal reworking of article 27 of the
guideline.
 
The National Commission understands that this monitoring system is referred to in Article 11 paragraph
(1) of the draft law which provides that “[w]here there are elements suggesting that the
requirements relating to qualification certificates or specific authorizations are no longer
satisfied, the Minister, when he issued the specific certificate or authorization, carries out all the
necessary assessments and, if necessary, withdraws these certificates or this specific authorisation”.
 
Subsection (2) of the aforementioned article further provides that “[t]he Minister may suspend
temporarily a Union qualification certificate, as soon as he considers that this suspension
is necessary for reasons of security or public order”.
 
Thus, if it emerges from the provisions mentioned above that the Minister seems to be monitoring
qualification certificates or specific authorisations, the terms of such monitoring are not
however not specified in the draft law.
 
However, in such a context, the CNPD wonders what information would be
forwarded to the Minister, if necessary. In addition, is the minister provided with
personal data directly by the Grand Ducal Police or the Public Prosecutor
where a suspension of a Union certificate “is necessary for security or
of public order”?
 
Therefore, it would be appropriate to specify the methods of such monitoring, and more particularly what
categories of personal data would be communicated, where appropriate, to the
Minister and by which administrations.
 

C. On access to the files referred to in Article 19 paragraph (5) of the preliminary draft

of law

 

Article 19 paragraph (5) of the draft law provides that the Minister may access:
 







national register of legal persons created by the law of March 30, 1979 organizing
the digital identification of natural and legal persons (hereinafter the “register
of legal persons”);
national register of natural persons created by the law of 19 June 2013 relating to
the identification of natural persons (hereinafter the “RNPP”);
file operated by the Minister having the registration and domains in his
attributions; and

 

 
 

 



register of companies carrying out an activity referred to in the amended law of 2 September
2011 regulating access to the professions of craftsman, merchant, industrialist as well as
only to certain liberal professions (hereinafter the “business register”).

 
It should be noted that the provisions of this paragraph do not transpose an article of the
directive and were added by the authors of the draft law in order to “make operational
the provisions of the law”. The CNPD is therefore pleased that the latter specify for each
of the aforementioned files, what are the categories of data that may be transmitted to the
Minister and for what purposes. However, as set out below, certain clarifications
deserve to be provided.
 
In addition, it should be recalled that access to said files should not allow the Minister
indirectly obtain personal data from other files
state authorities for which he does not have access under the draft law under notice.
If so, such communication of data between ministries or administrations
should be specified in the draft bill under notice.
 

1. On the purposes

 

As an introductory remark, the CNPD assumes that a clerical error crept in at the start
of Article 19 paragraph (5) of the draft law in that it refers to paragraph (1) and not
not in subsection (2) of section 19.
 
The authors of the draft bill specify that the files can be consulted for “the
implementation, monitoring of the application and evaluation of this law” and the “exchange
of information between the authorities having access to the database referred to in Article 20 and the
European Commission ". However, the purposes are not written with sufficient precision
so that the CNPD is not able to assess whether the data transmitted is,
in accordance with the principle of data minimization enshrined in Article 5 paragraph (1)
letter c) of the GDPR, which are actually necessary for the fulfillment of said purposes.
 
The National Commission wonders whether this access would not instead allow the Minister to
verify the authenticity of the supporting documents provided on the basis of articles 8 and following of
draft bill 13. Is access to these files also necessary in order to prevent fraud?
or other illegal practices as referred to in Article 23 of the draft law?
 
Clarifications on this subject should be provided.
 
 

                                                           
13 See the developments above in point I. A. 3. of this opinion
 

 

 
 

2. On the categories of personal data

 
First of all, it should be noted that the Minister is provided with personal data
personal as well as data concerning legal persons. As such, it is appropriate to
note that recital 14 of the GDPR states that the GDPR “(…) does not cover the processing
personal data relating to legal persons, and in particular
companies with legal personality, including name, legal form and
contact details of the legal person”.However, information relating to persons
legal entities may, where appropriate, concern natural persons (for example: if they
include the name of the manager of the company) and must therefore be considered as data
of a personal nature.
 
Thereby,
communicated to the Minister.
 

the GDPR will only apply to personal data that is

a) On access to the national register of legal persons:

 
Article 19, paragraph (5) letter a) provides that the Minister may access data from the
national register of legal entities created by the amended law of 30 March 1979 organizing
the digital identification of natural and legal persons in order to obtain the information
identification of river transport companies, including in particular the “identification number
national” and to the “address”
 
According to the understanding of the CNPD, the national register of legal persons does not contain
principle no personal data so that the GDPR does not apply.
Nevertheless, in order to avoid any confusion, it would be desirable that the authors of the bill
use the terms as they are used by the aforementioned law of March 30, 1979. If the Commission
make no mistake, the correct terminology is “identity number” and “headquarters
social ".

b) On access to the RNPP:

 

Pursuant to Article 19 paragraph (5) letter b), the Minister has access to the national register of
natural persons “in order to obtain the identification information of the crew member of
bridge (…)” such as surnames and first names, national identification number, nationality and
country of residence.
 
It should be recalled that access to the RNPP by the Minister should also be made
in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 10 of the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to
the identification of natural persons as well as Articles 5 to 7 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of
November 28, 2013 setting the terms of application of the aforementioned law.

 

 
 

 



c) Access to the file providing information on vessels registered in the

Luxemburg

The draft law provides that the minister can access the data from the file used
by the minister having the registration and domains in his attributions informing on the
boats registered in Luxembourg. Specifically, the Minister can access "data
necessary for the identification of the buildings, owner, holder, address, deadlines”.

The National Commission considers that the draft law should refer to the law on
creation of the file in question. In the absence of this indication, it is not able to
decide on access to said file.
 

d) On access to the business register:

 
The CNPD understands that this is the register referred to in Article 32 paragraph (1) of the amended law of
September 2, 2011 regulating access to the professions of craftsman, merchant, industrialist
as well as to certain liberal professions and that the Minister will only be granted access
limited to said register. The National Commission is therefore pleased that the authors of the preliminary draft
of law only provide for limited access to the register.
 
However, with regard to information relating to the financial capacity of the company
river transport, which categories of personal data, if any, would be
forwarded to the Minister? Clarifications on this subject deserve to be provided by the authors.
of the draft law. In addition, and in order to avoid any confusion, it would also be appropriate to
specify what is covered by the term “addresses”. Is this the company's head office?
river transport or the address of its legal representatives?
 

D. On the registers kept by the Minister

 

Article 20 of the draft law transposes Article 25 of the directive and aims in particular
provide for the creation of registers to be kept by the Minister. Indeed, subsection (1)
said article provides that the Minister maintains registers “for the certificates of qualification of
the Union, service books and logbooks issued under its authority (…) and, where appropriate, for
documents recognized under Article 7(2) which have been issued, renewed,
suspended or withdrawn, which have been declared lost, stolen or destroyed, or which have expired (…)”.
 
The CNPD understands from reading the aforementioned paragraph that the Minister keeps a register for the
Union qualification certificates, another register for service records and a third
register for logbooks. The paragraph further lists the categories of data that
would be collected by the Minister for each of the registers.
 
 

 

 
 

However, the National Commission wonders whether these registers will not constitute a single
and even data processing relating to this register, while the authors of the draft law
mention in their comments “keeping the national register” and refer in the
body of the text several times in the “register referred to in Article 20, paragraph 1” 14. Thus, it is
recommended to clarify in the draft law whether it is a single register or, on the other hand,
several separate data processing operations or registers maintained by the Minister.
 

1. On the categories of personal data

 

Article 20 paragraph (1) of the draft law lists the personal data
contained in the registers kept by the Minister. From this point of view, this article, which is a
faithful transposition of article 25 paragraph (1) of the directive, does not raise any comments
of the CNPD.
 
It should however be noted that in addition to the data listed in paragraph (1) of Article 20
aforementioned, the CNPD understands that the data from the files listed in paragraph (5) of
article 19 will be kept in these registers. Indeed, Article 19 paragraph (6) provides that
“The consultation and reception of data from these databases can be done in a way
automatically in the register referred to in Article 20(1).
 
It should also be noted that the Minister will also be required to collect and process
personal data as part of the procedure for issuing certificates of
Union qualification and specific authorizations referred to in Articles 8 and 9. The CNPD
understands that only the data appearing on the Union qualification certificates will be
contained in the registers and not the supporting documents provided by applicants for
certificates in support of their application.
 
In any case, if the registers kept by the Minister were to contain other data
than those listed in Article 20 paragraph (1), then this should be clearly reflected in
the draft bill.
 

2. On the security measures governing access to the registers

 

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1) letter f) of the GDPR, personal data
must be “processed in such a way as to guarantee appropriate security of the personal data
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against the loss,
destruction or
techniques or
appropriate organizational (integrity and confidentiality)”.
 

accidental damage,

using measurements

                                                           
14 See in particular Articles 19, paragraph (6) and 20, paragraph (3) of the draft law.
 

 

 
 

In addition, Article 32 of the GDPR provides that "the controller and the processor
implement the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk”. Such measures must be implemented in order to
in particular to avoid unauthorized access to data or data leaks.
 
Thus, the National Commission is pleased that the authors of the preliminary draft law have specified the
terms of access to the registers kept by the Minister, even though they have provided for traceability
access to said registers.
 
Furthermore, the last sentence of Article 19 paragraph (4) of the draft law provides that
“[o]nly are authorized to have access to the data the people who need it in
exercise of their function and their professional tasks”. According to the understanding of
CNPD, this provision applies to all processing provided for by the draft law,
therefore also access to the registers referred to in Article 20 paragraph (1).
 

3. On the retention period of personal data

 

According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, personal data may only be
not be kept longer than necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes for
which they are collected and processed.
 
Paragraph 1 of paragraph (3) of Article 20 of the draft law faithfully transposes
Article 25 paragraph (3) of the directive. Paragraph 2 of paragraph (3) of Article 20 of the
bill is an addition to the directive. This paragraph clarifies the
date of deletion of certain categories of data.
 
Thus, it is provided that "the data relating to a boat are deleted from the register referred to in
paragraph 1 when this building is dismantled" and that "the data relating to a
service or a certificate of qualification shall be deleted from the register referred to in paragraph 1 when
the person concerned is deceased”.
 
The CNPD wonders whether such a retention period for personal data,
in particular until the death of the person concerned, is proportionate and necessary. In effect,
is it necessary to keep the data concerning him until the death of a person and
appearing on the qualification certificate if it no longer has a qualification certificate or
no longer meets the conditions required by the draft law?
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

In the absence of details from the authors of the draft bill as to the criteria that would justify
such a duration, the National Commission is not in a position to assess whether, in this case, the
principle of limited data retention period is respected regarding the collection of these
data.
 
In addition, it should be clarified that a retention period should also be determined
for each category of personal data that would be collected by the Minister
in the framework of the draft law under review. For example, the data collected during
the procedure for issuing Union qualification certificates will have to be abolished or
anonymized as soon as their conservation is no longer necessary for the achievement of the purposes for
which they are collected and processed.
 
Therefore, even if the retention period does not necessarily have to be defined in the preliminary draft
of law, it should at least specify the criteria that would be taken into account in order to determine
what is the proportionate retention period for each category of personal data
staff that would be collected by the minister.
 

On the exchange of personal data

II.
 

Article 23 paragraph (2) provides in particular that “[t]he Minister exchanges information
relevant with the competent authorities of the other Member States concerning the certification
persons involved in the operation of a building, including information relating to
suspension and withdrawal of certificates”.
 
It should be remembered that personal data can, in principle, circulate
freely from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg within the European Economic Area,
as long as the general principles of the GDPR are respected. In particular, care must be taken to respect
the principle of purpose limitation, under which data must not be processed
for purposes “incompatible” with the original purposes.
 
In addition and insofar as the terms of these data exchanges are provided for by the
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/473 of 20 January 2020 as regards the
standards applicable to databases relating to Union qualification certificates,
service books and logbooks, this article does not raise any comments from the
CNPD.
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 


Thus decided in Belvaux on December 17, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 
Tine A. Larsen
  President
 

Thierry Lallemang
    Commissioner

      Christopher Buschman
 

    Commissioner

        Marc Lemmer
         Commissioner

 

 
 

 

