Case number: NAIH-4495-1 / 2021.
(NAIH / 2020/477.)

Subject: Application in part
decision granting it

DECISION
The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) shall […]
at the request of […] (hereinafter referred to as the "Applicant"), represented by J.-P.
on 10 January 2006, registered in […] (registered office: […]; hereinafter referred to as [Company1]) and
[…] ([…]; Company registration number: […]; hereinafter: [Company2]) by the Applicant as dispatcher
data relating to the recording and use of telephone calls
the following decisions in the data protection authority proceedings concerning
I. The Authority grants the Applicant's request in part and finds that [Company1]
infringed the right of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
The principle of accountability set out in Article 5 (2),
Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation and Article 5 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
and Article 13 (1) to (2).
II. The Authority shall instruct [Company1] to comply with the accountability requirement
only be handled or forwarded to the dispatchers of [Company2] if there is an appropriate legal basis
[Company2] and provide general data protection on data processing
transparent information in accordance with Article 13 (1) to (2) of this Regulation
III. The Authority rejects the remainder of the Applicant's application.
ARC. The Authority finds of its own motion that, in the absence of proof of the [Company2] legal basis
processed the Applicant's personal data in breach of Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
the principle of accountability under Article 6 (2) and Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
and infringed Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
and Article 13 (1) to (2).
V. The Authority will ex officio instruct [Company2] to be accountable
should only be handled by dispatchers if the appropriate legal basis is met
and the sound recording thereof, as well as the data processing
transparent in accordance with Article 13 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
information.

.................................................. .................................................. .................................................. .................................................. .................................................. ..............
1055 Budapest
Falk Miksa utca 9-11

Tel .: +36 1 391-1400
Fax: +36 1 391-1410

ugyfelszolgalat@naih.hu
www.naih.hu

2

VI. The Authority
1. ex officio [Company1]
HUF 500,000, ie five hundred thousand forints
data protection fine,
2. ex officio [Company2]
HUF 200,000, ie two hundred thousand forints
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
VII. The Authority orders HUF 10,000, ie ten thousand forints, for the Applicant
payment to the bank account of your choice due to the deadline being exceeded
by bank transfer or postal order.
***
A II. and [Company1] and [Company2] to take the measures provided for in points V and V
within 30 days of its notification in writing - supporting evidence
to the Authority.
Data protection fines shall be imposed within 30 days of the final adoption of this Decision
Authority's centralized collection account for centralized revenue collection (1003200001040425-00000000 Centralized collection account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425
0000 0000). When transferring the amounts, NAIH / 2020/477. JUDGE. for
should be referred to.
If [Company1] and [Company2] fail to comply with their obligation to pay the fine within the time limit,
they are required to pay a late fee to the above account number. Rate of late payment a
statutory interest, which is valid on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay
equal to the basic interest rate.
The II. and V, respectively, data protection fines and penalties for delay
in the event of non-payment of allowances, the Authority shall order enforcement of the decision.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the application lodged with the Metropolitan Court
can be challenged in a lawsuit. The enhanced defense does not affect the time limit for bringing an action. THE
the application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, together with the case file
forward it to the court. The request to hold a hearing must be indicated in the application. THE
during the period of enhanced defense, the court shall act out of court, including on appeal
procedures. For those who do not benefit from full personal exemption a
the fee for an administrative lawsuit is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material fees. The Capital
Legal proceedings are mandatory in proceedings before the General Court.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
1. The Applicant has applied through the authorized legal representative of the
To the Authority, alleging that his former employer, [Cég2],

3
on the basis of the legal relationship on September 23, 2019 between 5:00 and 6:00 am [Company1]
An employee of the Chief Dispatcher Service initiated a telephone conversation with the
Applicant through his office telephone and this telephone conversation with the consent and
recorded with an unknown voice recorder without informing the
[Company2]. [Company2] initiated an investigation with the Applicant based on the sound recording
and then initiated the termination of his employment as a result of the investigation,
as the communication it carried out did not correspond to the service and professional activities of [Company2]
expectations. The Legal Representative of the Applicant in writing on 9 October and 2 December 2019
requested information on the processing of his personal data and made a claim to [Cég1]. THE
[Company1] disputed the infringement in its replies of 14 November and 18 December 2019
and refrained from complying with the stated requests, but did not dispute that
without the consent and information of the Applicant
took place. In its reply, [Company1] further informed the Applicant that
Concluded between [Company1] and [Company2] and effective from 1 November 2016, [a]
hereinafter referred to as the Service Control Technology Agreement).
However, according to the Applicant, he was not aware of the fact and content of this agreement and
it did not provide it despite the express request of [Company1]. In addition, the
[Company1] informed the Applicant about the processing of his personal data and the circumstances
and sent the Applicant a copy of the sound recording he objected to, stating that
that it has also informed the Applicant that it is expected to be enforced by the Applicant
the deletion of the phonogram was waived for the needs of the
restricted access.
In its request, the Applicant requested the Authority to establish the existence of the infringement,
conduct that constitutes an infringement, or condemn [Company1] in general
breach of the rules of the Data Protection Regulation, ie due process of law and due process
breach of the principle of transparent data management, the principle of purposeful data management
and breach of the principle of data protection. Also because the
According to the applicant, [Company1] is the appropriate legal basis or in the absence of its consent
handled your personal data and did not receive any prior information about your data processing
did not receive adequate information on the processing of his personal data at his request.
In addition, the Applicant requested the Authority to assess the nature and gravity of the
the extent of the damage caused by the infringement and the intentional nature of the infringement and the
impose an administrative fine by considering the fact of non-compensation.
2. In its order to initiate the procedure, the Authority notified [Cég1] and invited it to make a statement and provide information in order to clarify the facts.
According to the statement of [Cég1], in the case of the Applicant - and in general - a
the purpose of data processing related to voice recording between [Company1] and [Company2] November 2016
Is the implementation of a service control technology agreement in force from day 1,
based on Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation, a
A legitimate interest in the performance of a contract concluded between [Company1] and [Company2]. So
In his opinion, the Applicant erroneously indicated the data subject as the legal basis for the data processing
consent.
According to the statement of [Company1], the Applicant, as a former employee of [Company2] and
service control is also necessarily known by the router dispatcher
technology agreement between the transport manager and the customer ([Company1]) and
the quality and quantity parameters of the ordered service between your service provider ([Company2])
lays down and lays down all the rules according to which the transport manager shall
compliance with the parameters agreed with the service provider and the parties
(the express purpose of the inspection is to violate the terms of the agreement
support for a penalty claim).

4

According to the statement of [Company1], the service control technology agreement states that
that the transport manager is in breach of the agreement is not appropriate
You can also prove your performance or irregular work by recording the personality
rights. Given that the recording of sound is the service control
technology agreement includes additional contributions from the companies involved
no longer required by employees. According to the statement of [Company1], the Applicant must
was necessarily aware of the fact of the agreement, its relevant content, since -
In its view, it is difficult to imagine that
would not have been aware of this in his job and the duties and responsibilities of a traffic manager
without it he could have done it properly. According to the statement of [Cég1], the content of the service control technology agreement and the job of the Applicant
information was the responsibility of [Company2] as an employer. According to the statement of [Company1] a
information is justified and necessary, but it was not the task and duty of [Company1], therefore
in its view, its procedure, including the making of the sound recording, was lawful.
According to the statement of [Company1], [Company1] and [Company2] together provide a public service
the dispatchers of the two companies play a prominent role in the provision of public services,
who are primarily responsible for providing the appropriate technical background for the public service. They are responsible
also to ensure that the right number of vehicles is available to the crowd,
therefore, they are the key points in the implementation of the contract. According to the statement of [Company1] a
the function and job of the dispatcher is essential for any disputes between the two companies,
or public service disputes and all related disputes, including passengers
Their conduct and
their employee performance. Thus, the legitimate interest is not limited to [Company1] and [Company2]
but in connection with the Applicant's employment in relation to provability
there is also a legitimate interest of the passengers affected by the public service that the
the dispatcher function and duties are properly loaded and performed. Statement by [Company1]
according to which those interests, both individually and collectively, establish the legitimate interest which
justifies the fundamental rights of the Applicant arising in the course of his employment
restriction of rights.
According to the statement of [Cég1], based on what happened on 23 September 2019, [Cég2] did not
complied with the requirements of the service control technology agreement between the companies, a
The applicant had no proceedings as an employee of the chief dispatcher service
it was firm, it was not fast, and no decision or action was taken on its part.
All this took place in a situation where [Cég2] significantly underperformed the number of vehicles it undertook to carry out public service tasks.
endangered. In view of the above, the framework for the service control technology agreement for the production and use of sound recordings is appropriate for its implementation.
data processing purpose and legal basis
in its view, it cannot commit an infringement. The [Company1] is the service control
Annex 1 to the Technology Agreement, in particular Articles 1.1.1, 1.1.2. and the
service control technology agreement 10.1. referred to points
include the following.
Section 1.1.1 of Annex 1 to the Service Control Technology Agreement. point a
behavioral expectations of employees of companies party to the agreement
thus states that the requirement is “defined by law and specified by the Transport Manager,
in the internal (corporate) instructions concerning the handling of traffic and accepted by the Service Provider a
compliance with work regulations. "
Section 1.1.2 of Annex 1 to the Service Control Technology Agreement. point a
requirements relating to the provision of service include the ‘extraordinary event
decisive, rapid decision-making in the event of

5

The Service Control Technology Agreement 10.1. In addition, according to
They undertake to intensify their commitment to cooperate in order to comply with this Agreement. "
According to a further statement from [Company1], the job of dispatcher and dispatchers
records of his conversations and statements made in the course of providing the service - so the present
also a sound recording that is the subject of a procedure - a characteristic of the job and everything
the person holding the position of dispatcher must be aware of his / her position due to his / her position
about this. Without it, this job cannot be filled, as dispatcher statements are important
recallability and use as evidence. Consequently, the
According to [Company1], there can be no case where a dispatcher a
he does not know about sound recording while working. The Applicant's service control
had to implement the provisions of the Technology Agreement and therefore
including the fact of making the sound recordings — he must have known.
Voice recording is done all through the desk phones of [Company1] dispatchers
conversation, including between the dispatchers, the dispatcher and the driver.
and between the dispatcher and other employees of the service provider, as
all incoming and outgoing calls are recorded. The [Company1] chief dispatcher service
operated by [Cég3] on 23 September 2019 from 5:00 to 6:00
[…] Recorded with the Applicant through a PBX voice recording system service
telephone conversation. In order to establish a legitimate interest in the fixation of sound,
bus passenger transport as defined in the service control technology agreement
in order to control the service and to clarify the subsequent dispute.
Regarding the transmission of the sound recording to [Company2], [Company1] stated that
that the service control technology agreement is “Service Activity
control of traffic control by traffic controllers
transmission of work reports. For transmission to the service control
between the two companies involved in the technology agreement, not an external one
and [the company2] involved in the transfer is also the company that would otherwise be the
As an applicant's employer, he also has an additional legal basis for handling personal data
had. The transmission of voice recording is therefore a service control technology
[Company1] enforced its own contractual rights
However, any further disputable use and data processing is no longer
the facts which arise in its area of interest or responsibility.
In connection with the provision of personal data of the Applicant to the Requesting Authority
on the basis of the documents submitted by [Cég1] on 9 October 2019 and 2 December 2019
by letters dated 14 November 2019 and 18 December 2019
informed him. Of these two letters, the information about the Applicant's personal data is the Applicant
The letter of 9 October 2019 and the letter of 14 November 2019 from [Cég1] shall apply. A [Company1]
in this letter he informed the Applicant about the purpose and legal basis of the data processing, the data subject
personal data, the identity of the data controller, the duration of the data processing,
enforcement options and that the Applicant is expected to
waived the deletion of the phonogram in view of the needs to be enforced
restricted access to it. In addition, [Company1] sent it to the Applicant
a copy of the sound recording complained of.
3. Having regard to the statement of [Company1] that the service control technology
Information on the content of the agreement and the position of the Applicant in [Company2] as
was the responsibility of the employer, the Authority found that the matter was the right and legitimate interest of [Cég2]
therefore directly affected by the CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. Act (a
hereinafter: Ákr.) provided him with the status of a client, and a
called on him to make a statement in order to clarify the facts.

6

According to the statement of [Cég2], traffic management in respect of its own activities,
and in the performance of passenger transport tasks in the […] agglomeration. The daily
level communication and communication between the participants in the traffic management
on fixed telephones (fixed and / or mobile). None of the telephones regularized for traffic users have a sound recording
recording function installed as it is in the [Company2] current traffic control
practice does not require.
In the performance of tasks related to its own activities, [at Company2] a
involved in the management of daily traffic in the performance of traffic management activities
actors include the chief dispatcher service, the scene of the accident, the
service provider, the traffic service provider and the bus or coach service provider. THE
[Company2] expects employees involved in traffic management to have
with information necessary for daily work, such as that occurring in the area of operation
source of danger, transport infrastructure and railway traffic technology,
types of buses operated, timetables, working and rest time of bus drivers
the availability and capacity of available storage space, and
with information on geographical location. The [Company2] has these expectations internally
regulators, which are paid to employees in the usual way at the company
for publication. However, no regulator has been issued that
would require the production of sound recordings in the context of traffic management, such as [Company2] 's own
does not even happen within its competence.
According to the statement of [Cég2], the central traffic management is performed by the head dispatcher service. THE
The main tasks of the chief dispatcher service include, in particular, the supervision and management of the company's traffic management process, taking into account weather and road conditions.
accompanying, informing traffic areas in case of forecast of extraordinary weather conditions,
monitoring of external conditions affecting the traffic management process, in particular
in view of the extraordinary events in the area of operation, the weather
forecasts, road conditions, border crossing traffic, co-services
reports. The chief dispatcher also provides troubleshooting based on the operational traffic service signal
in the event of a disturbance, arrange for the reallocation of buses and coaches,
ordering an exemption flight, using the assistance of co-transport centers,
allow deviations from the timetable (departure time, route, frequency) and
if necessary, the external space required for the marketability of buses shall be provided
performing repairs, providing parts and materials.
According to the statement of [Cég2], the process of traffic management and troubleshooting is […]
in the field of passenger transport in agglomerations, similarly to
the daily traffic management and troubleshooting is performed by the [Company1] traffic management of the "Courier"
using a traffic management system. The bus drivers involved in the task [Company2] a
in the course of its traffic management, is primarily involved in the traffic management of [Cég1]
instructions of the staff of the organizations. [Company2] has limited tasks and responsibilities in its day-to-day traffic management. The task
primarily to ensure the smooth running of day-to-day traffic a
preparation of vehicle and driver turns and controls on the basis of the ordered schedule, a
the necessary daily vehicle expenditure and the provision of emergency vehicle and driver replacements.
The main dispatcher of [Cég2] is responsible for […] agglomeration passenger transport
during a traffic management activity, whether the on-site dispatcher or the [Company1]
take action with the [Company2] on-site staff member on the basis of an indication from the Chief Dispatcher
on the basis of an indication from the Chief Dispatcher of [Company1]
take measures to rectify the disturbance in consultation and cooperation with the dispatcher. Based on these a
According to the statement of [Cég2], it can be stated that the traffic management, traffic management

7
does not record audio during a single stage of the traffic management process
sem.
According to the statement of [Cég2], [Cég2] has been concluded with the Hungarian State since January 1, 2005
on the basis of a public service contract in force
passenger transport tasks. Government Resolution […] on […] and […] on […]
Acting on behalf of the Hungarian State in order to comply with the provisions of the Government Resolution
From 1 November 2016, the Ministry of National Development (hereinafter: NFM) amended the public service contract with [Cég2] so that the […] agglomeration
by providing public bus passenger transport services to [Cég2] as a service provider
entrusted him. The public service contract of [Cég2] expired on 31 December 2019. THE
Innovation and Technology is responsible for the continuity of public service
It was further ordered by the Ministry on the basis of a designation decision as an emergency measure
to carry out the activity. From 1 January 2020, therefore, they are included in the designation decision (s)
the prevailing.
The NFM and […] (‘the Municipality’)
a cooperation agreement has been concluded on services. This agreement
serves the purpose of […] and its agglomeration completed by bus
necessary for the operation of a public passenger transport service
tasks (organization and management of agglomeration services, including
transport management and technological tasks). The Municipality a
has appointed [Company1], which is a technological
professional and technical rules for the tasks of [Company2] as a service provider and [Company1]
as separate transport agreements.
According to the statement of [Company2], it is also Annex 14 to the public service contract
has a quality system for public passenger transport in the […] agglomeration
expectations and rules on penalties and the right to deduct. A [Company2]
in the control of his activities as a service provider in order to protect personal data,
and due to legal compliance with data management and data processing rules:
-

the inspection reports do not include the personal data of [Company2] employees
unless the employee agrees to do so by signing the report,

-

the recordings made by the customer during the inspection with the technical device
managed in a closed manner by an inspection body in charge,

-

inadequate quality or quality of the services provided by [Company2]
personal data during the process of checking quantitative parameters
processing is not carried out, the sanctioning is carried out only in another way
based on identification (eg registration number, track number, date, time,
direction of travel).

According to the statement of [Cég2], the agreement concluded between him and [Cég1] in December 2016 […]
in the following:
traffic control
technological
agreement)
within the meaning of
the
in an agglomeration
-

[Company1] independently performs complete traffic supervision and troubleshooting,

-

[Company1] together with the organization designated by the NFM and [Company2]
monitoring the fulfillment of uniform service quality parameters.

According to the traffic control technology agreement, the traffic control of [Company1]
directly manages the bus drivers of [Company2]. Under the agreement, [Company2]
the task of the dispatchers is to coordinate the operational tasks, technical troubleshooting of the vehicle

8
organization, provision of vehicles and personnel, and by [Company2]
contributing to the elimination of traffic disruptions.
According to the statement of [Cég2], it was also established between him and [Cég1] in December 2016
- according to the statement of [Company1], effective from 1 November 2016 - service inspection
under a technology agreement, the service of [Company1] in the agglomeration
as specified in the Annexes to the Service Control Technology Agreement
according to quality expectations and methodology. According to the statement of [Company2], quality expectations
and control methodologies, however, are not found with dispatcher communication
sanctioned regulations in relation to.
Pursuant to all these contractual provisions, [Cég2] states that [Cég2] is a site
dispatchers and the chief dispatcher were and are only involved as enforcement coordinators
in the performance of this public service task and their activities are not subject to public service
contract and the various (technological) agreements concluded under it
inspections in accordance with
According to [Company2], the Traffic Monitoring Technology Agreement and the
found no provision in the service control technology agreement that a
[Company1] - acting under the control of a service - by the on-site dispatcher of [Company2] or
would require the recording of a conversation with the chief dispatcher by means of a sound recording
[Company1] audio recording data management only between [Company2] and [Company1]
conceivable on a legal basis other than a contractual legal transaction. According to the statement of [Company2] a
voice recorder telephone is operated by [Company1], so conversations on this line
compliance with the data protection rules relating to the recording of his data as a data controller
burden. According to [Cég2], the (main) dispatcher is therefore affected by [Cég1]
not in the course of its data management activities when using telephone lines
identifiable. Consequently, according to [Company2], its data processing
in the absence of such information, no information shall be provided.
In addition, [Company2] stated that [Company1] erred in transmitting the sound recording to it,
whereas the subject of the service control technology agreement is, on the one hand, the […]
traffic technical coordination of the agglomeration bus public passenger transport service,
on the other hand, monitoring the performance of public service tasks. Traffic engineering
coordination is the responsibility of the traffic monitoring technology agreement, while that of the public service
compliance control of the service control technology agreement
has. These two agreements, although partly related, have a different purpose and object
and their nature.
According to the statement of [Cég2], according to the traffic monitoring technology agreement, [Cég2]
as service provider dispatchers perform the coordination of operational tasks, vehicle technical
organizing troubleshooting, providing staff and vehicle to the schedule
in the event of traffic disturbances affecting subordinate staff or the vehicle
they contribute to the elimination of the disturbance.
According to the statement of [Company2], it appears from the service control technology agreement
that its performance only in accordance with the prescribed parameters of the transport service
(ie the provision of a public service directly to passengers)
communication between dispatchers and thus to control it
however, as it does not contain a provision on the work of dispatchers and its
does not cover its material scope.
The purpose of transmitting the sound recording is unknown to [Company2] because the sound recording is not
it was made by this company, it was not the data controller and it did not request the transfer of the recording.
According to [Cég2], the purpose of transmitting the phonogram is to [Company1]

9
may have been informed that an employee of [Company2] spoke in an inappropriate tone
[Company1] employee.
According to the statement of [Cég2], the transfer was not in a civil law sense
contractual basis, as it does not constitute a control of services between the parties
irregularity or defective performance under a technology agreement, while
from a data protection point of view, in accordance with Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
[Company2] cannot determine its legal basis as it was not the controller of the personal data,
or its transmitter.
[Company2], according to its statement, used the sound recording in such a way that it
heard him and, in the light of what was said, initiated an employer 's proceedings
Against the applicant as an employee. [Company2] is the sound recording during use
did not allow anyone to be heard or passed it on to a third party.
According to the statement of [Company2] on September 27, 2019 in connection with the case
heard the Applicant and informed him that the audio recording was from [Company1]
became the property of [Cég2] and provided the Applicant with the sound recording
hearing. [Company2] subsequently, on 30 September 2019, destroyed the
sound recording.
In addition, the Authority reviewed the service control technology agreement
and the traffic monitoring technology agreement. The traffic control agreement 2.2.
"The Parties agree that, for the purposes of this Agreement, the
Technology for "monitoring the fulfillment of uniform service quality parameters"
Agreement No. 1 the quality and performance indicators set out in Annex I.
apply. " Based on this, the traffic monitoring technology agreement
to verify the fulfillment of the tasks set out in Article 1 of this Agreement
of Annex 1.2.2. to check the performance of the dispatcher tasks detailed in
the rules of the service control technology agreement shall apply. THE
service control technology agreement 4.1. and on the basis of
transport manager, [Company1] is entitled to the service provided by [Company2],
check at any time during its operation. [Company2] is also obliged to cooperate with [Company1]
with all its inspection staff and representatives, not only during that inspection,
but in the course of its service activities. Service control technology
1.2.4 of Annex 1 to the Agreement. in addition, it defines what qualifies
proven irregular work, such as the ‘Transport Organizer
Faulty performance (recorded by sound recording) recorded in traffic control reports ”or a
[Company1] is documented by a sound recording made by its competent staff
irregularity.
Service Control Technology Agreement No. 1 referred to by [Company1]
of Annex 1.1.1. with the employees of the companies party to the agreement, including [Company2]
- including dispatchers - that
requirement: "as defined by law and specified by the Transport Manager,
in the internal (corporate) instructions concerning the handling of traffic and accepted by the Service Provider a
compliance with work regulations. " Based on this for dispatchers
may be verified in Annex 1 to the Service Verification Technology Agreement
1.1.2. the requirement of point, in the event of an emergency, the definite, rapid
decision-making or action.
Section 1.2.2 of Annex 1 to the Traffic Monitoring Technology Agreement. point
detailed dispatcher tasks include the [Company2] dispatcher
shall be obliged to receive signals from the control dispatcher of [Company1] to the subordinate
in the event of traffic disruption to staff or vehicles and shall take the necessary action

10
measures. For example: replacement of a missing driver in the event of a shortage of staff, accident
in the event of a change of vehicle and any tasks related to the representation of the owner
supply. The [Company2] dispatcher is also obliged to cooperate with the [Company1] controller
dispatcher in the performance of the traffic control activity or the receipt thereof
shall forward to it within three minutes any information
It is important for the [Company1] traffic controller during traffic control activities
may.
II. Applicable legal provisions
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the general data protection
Regulation should apply to personal data in a partially or fully automated manner
non-automated processing of personal data
which are part of a registration system or which
they want to be part of a registration system.
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, this is the case here
the general data protection regulation applies to data processing.
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information.
Pursuant to Section 2 (2) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act), the General Data Protection Act
This Regulation shall apply with the additions specified in the provisions indicated therein.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data,
and the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
monitoring and facilitating the enforcement of personal data in the European Union
facilitating the free movement of persons within
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2a) of the General Data Protection Decree on Supervision
authority under the jurisdiction of Hungary
in the General Data Protection Regulation and in this Act
exercised by the Authority.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (3) (b), pursuant to Section 38 (2) and (2a)
within the scope of his duties as defined in this Act, in particular at the request of the person concerned, and
ex officio data protection authority proceedings.
Infotv. Enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
To that end, the Authority shall initiate a data protection authority procedure upon request.
Unless otherwise provided in the General Data Protection Regulation, the application was initiated
for data protection authority proceedings under Ákr. shall apply in the Infotv
with certain deviations.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (2): “To initiate official data protection proceedings
Article 77 (1) and Article 22 (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be submitted in the case specified in
According to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “Other administrative
or without prejudice to judicial remedies, any person concerned shall have the right to lodge a complaint
at a supervisory authority, in particular where he has his habitual residence, place of employment or
in the Member State of the alleged infringement, if it considers that the
processing of personal data relating to personal data infringes this Regulation. "

11
According to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "personal data" means identified or
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"); identifiable
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular any
ID, such as name, number, location data, online ID, or natural
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of a person
identifiable by one or more relevant factors. "
According to Article 4 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "processing" means personal data
performed on data or files in an automated or non-automated manner
an operation or set of operations, such as collecting, recording, organizing, segmenting, storing,
modification or alteration, querying, viewing, use, transmission of communication,
by distribution or otherwise making available, coordination or
linking, restriction, deletion or destruction. "
According to Article 4 (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "controller" means the natural person
or a legal person, public authority, agency or any other body which:
the purposes and means of the processing of personal data, alone or in association with others
define; if the purposes and means of the processing are determined by Union or Member State law
the controller or the specific aspects of the designation of the controller
may be determined by Union or national law. "
According to Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation: "Personal data shall:
(a) be processed lawfully and fairly and in a manner which is transparent to the data subject
("legality, fairness and transparency");
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not processed
in a way incompatible with those objectives; in accordance with Article 89 (1)
does not constitute incompatibility with the original purpose for the purpose of archiving in the public interest,
further processing for scientific and historical research or statistical purposes
("Purpose limitation");
(c) be appropriate and relevant to the purposes for which the data are processed; and
they should be limited to what is necessary ("data saving");
(d) be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; take all reasonable measures
should be done in order to be inaccurate for personal purposes
data shall be deleted or rectified without delay ("accuracy");
(e) be stored in a form which permits identification of the persons concerned only
allows the time necessary to achieve the purposes for which the personal data are processed; the personal
data may be stored for a longer period only if:
archiving in the public interest for the processing of personal data in accordance with Article 89 (1)
scientific and historical research or statistical purposes,
appropriate to protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects
subject to the implementation of technical and organizational measures (‘limited
storability ”);
(f) be handled in such a way that appropriate technical or organizational measures are taken
ensure the adequate security of personal data
unauthorized or unlawful handling, accidental loss, destruction or
including protection against damage ("integrity and confidentiality").
2. The controller shall be responsible for complying with paragraph 1 and shall be able to
to demonstrate this compliance ("accountability"). "
Under Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: 'Personal data
is lawful only if and to the extent that it is at least one of the following
fulfilled:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
to treat

12
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party
at the request of the party concerned or before the conclusion of the contract
necessary to do so;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is in the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person
necessary for its protection;
(e) the processing is in the public interest or a public authority vested in the controller
necessary for the performance of the task
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless those interests take precedence over such interests
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms that protect personal data
necessary, in particular if the child concerned. "
According to Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The controller is unjustified
without delay, but in any case within one month of receipt of the request
inform the data subject in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. on the action taken in response to a request under Article.
Where appropriate, taking into account the complexity of the application and the number of applications, this shall be
this period may be extended by a further two months. The extension of the time limit is
the controller shall indicate the reasons for the delay from the date of receipt of the request
inform the data subject within one month. If the person concerned has submitted the application by electronic means
the information shall, as far as possible, be provided by electronic means, unless
the person concerned requests otherwise. "
Under Article 13 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: '(1) If the data subject
personal data are collected from the data subject, the controller shall process the personal data
provide the following information to the data subject at the time of acquisition
each of them:
(a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, if any, of the controller 's representative;
(b) the contact details of the Data Protection Officer, if any;
(c) the purpose of the intended processing of the personal data and the legal basis for the processing;
(d) in the case of processing based on Article 6 (1) (f), the controller or
legitimate interests of third parties;
(e) where applicable, the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
(f) where applicable, the fact that the controller is in a third country or internationally
personal data to the organization and the Commission
the existence or non-existence of a decision on compliance, or in Article 46, Article 47 or
in the case of the transmission referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49 (1), a
to indicate appropriate and suitable guarantees and to obtain a copy thereof
reference to the methods used or their availability.
2. In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall process personal data
at the time of acquisition, in order to ensure fair and transparent
provide the data subject with the following additional information:
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, that period
aspects of its definition;
(b) the data subject's right to request from the controller the personal data concerning him or her
access to, rectification, erasure or restriction of the processing of data, and
may object to the processing of such personal data as well as to the data subject
the right to data portability;
(c) information based on Article 6 (1) (a) or Article 9 (2) (a);
the right to withdraw consent at any time in the event of data processing,
which is without prejudice to the processing carried out on the basis of the consent prior to the withdrawal
legitimacy;
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority;
(e) that the provision of personal data is required by law or by a contractual obligation
is a basis or a precondition for concluding a contract and whether the person concerned is obliged to a

13
personal data and the possible consequences for them
failure to provide data;
(f) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information on the significance of such data processing and the
the expected consequences for the data subject. "
Under Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The data subject shall have the right to
to receive feedback from the data controller regarding the processing of your personal data
whether such processing is in progress and, if such data processing is in progress, you have the right to a
access to personal data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
have been or will be communicated, including in particular to third country consignees, and
international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, failing that
possible criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or limitation of the handling of such personal data
against data processing;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available sources
information;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
comprehensible information on the significance of such data processing and the
the expected consequences for the data subject. "
According to Article 23 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The data controller or
Union or Member State law applicable to the processor
may limit the scope of Articles 12 to 22. Articles 34 and 34 and Articles 12 to 22. in Article
in accordance with certain rights and obligations
the scope of the rights and obligations set out in Article 5, provided that the restriction respects
the essential content of fundamental rights and freedoms and the protection of
necessary and proportionate action in a democratic society:
(a) national security;
b) national defense;
(c) public security;
d) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses,
and the enforcement of criminal sanctions, including for threats to public security
protection against and prevention of these dangers;
(e) other important general interest objectives of general interest of the Union or of a Member State, in particular:
important economic or financial interests of the Union or of a Member State, including:
monetary, budgetary and tax issues, public health and social affairs
security;
(f) protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings;
g) in the case of regulated professions, the prevention and investigation of ethical violations,
reconnaissance and related procedures;
(h) in the cases referred to in points (a) to (e) and (g), even occasionally,
control, inspection or regulatory activity related to the provision of
(i) the protection of the data subject or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others;
(j) enforcement of civil claims. "

14
Under Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The supervisory authority
acting in its corrective capacity:
(a) warn the controller or processor that certain data processing operations are planned
its activities are likely to infringe the provisions of this Regulation;
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with this Regulation
the exercise of his rights under this Regulation;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations
bring this Regulation into line with the provisions of this Regulation
with its provisions;
(e) instruct the controller to inform the data subject of the data protection incident;
(f) temporarily or permanently restrict data processing, including data processing
prohibition;
(g) order personal data in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 respectively
rectification or erasure of data and restrictions on data processing, as well as Article 17 (2)
order notification to the addressees in accordance with
with whom or with whom the personal data have been communicated;
(h) withdraw the certificate or instruct the certification body in accordance with Articles 42 and 43
revoke a duly issued certificate or instruct the certification body not to
issue the certificate if the conditions for certification are not or are no longer met;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph; and
(j) order the flow of data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
suspension. "
Under Article 83 (2) and (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation:
2. Administrative fines shall be imposed in accordance with Article 58 (2), depending on the circumstances of the case.
shall be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in points (a) to (h) and (j) of
In deciding whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine, or a
the amount of the administrative fine in each case
the following must be taken into account:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement;
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
Technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
have ordered one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2),
compliance with the measures in question;
(j) whether the controller or processor has complied with Article 40
approved codes of conduct or an approved certification in accordance with Article 42
mechanisms; and

15
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, the financial gain obtained as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
or avoided loss.
[…]
5. Infringements of the following provisions, in accordance with paragraph 2, shall be imposed no later than 20
An administrative fine of EUR 000 000 or, in the case of undertakings, the previous
an amount not exceeding 4% of its total annual worldwide turnover for the financial year,
with the higher of the two:
(a) the principles of data processing, including the conditions for consent, in accordance with Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
appropriately;
(b) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 to 22. in accordance with Article
(c) personal data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
Articles 44 to 49. in accordance with Article
d) the IX. obligations under the law of the Member States adopted pursuant to this Chapter;
(e) the instructions of the supervisory authority pursuant to Article 58 (2) and the processing of data
temporary or permanent restriction of the flow of data
non-compliance with the request or access in breach of Article 58 (1)
failure to provide insurance. "
Infotv. 75 / A. §: “The Authority shall, in accordance with Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
exercise the powers set out in paragraph 1 in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
in particular by providing for the law or regulation on the processing of personal data
Requirements laid down in a binding act of the European Union
Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in particular by alerting the controller or processor. "
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 5 (3): “In Section (1) (a), Section (2) (b)
and Article 6 (1) (c) and (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case of specified data management (hereinafter: mandatory data management)
the types of data, the purpose and conditions of the data processing, the availability of the data, the
the duration or necessity of the processing
its review is determined by the law or local government decree ordering data management
me. ”
Act I of 2012 on the Labor Code (hereinafter: Mt.) 11 / A. § (1)
'Within the scope of the employee's conduct in connection with the employment relationship
verifiable. In this context, the employer may also use technical means, a
inform the employee in writing in advance. "
III. Decision
A natural person according to the definitions in the General Data Protection Regulation
voice of personal data, recording of voice, and performed on personal data
and any operation is considered data management.
III. 1. Defining data controller roles
During the examination of data management, he first loaded [Company1] and [Company2] in data management
its role needs to be examined.
According to Article 4 (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is paramount
it is characterized by the fact that it has substantive decision-making powers. The following can be considered as
main substantive decisions concerning data management:

16
-

defining the purpose of data management,

-

determining the duration of data processing,

-

selection of tools used in data management,

-

defining the persons entitled to access personal data,

-

the performance of data management operations (in particular the recording, storage,
use, transmission, deletion),

-

taking data security measures,

-

compliance with the obligation to inform data subjects,

-

selection of the data processor.

The data controller is responsible for data management
obligations. Thus, among other things, the data controller

legislation

-

ensure that the processing of personal data is fit for purpose and
all further principles of data processing [Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation],

-

it must also ensure that the appropriate legal basis for data processing
take place [Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation],

-

ensure that data security measures are in place [general
Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation],

-

you must conclude a data processing contract with the data controller (provided that
if you use a data processor for data processing) [General Data Protection Regulation
Article 28],

-

must comply with the exercise of the rights of data subjects [Article 1223 of the General Data Protection Regulation],

-

you must be informed of the relevant circumstances of the data processing prior to the processing
data subjects [Articles 13-14 of the General Data Protection Regulation].

On the basis of the statements, it can be concluded that [Company1] as a transport manager and [Company2]
as a service provider together they provide a public service. They are part of [Company1]
traffic management tasks performed on the basis of which [Company1] and its dispatchers
are responsible for providing the appropriate technical background for the public service and for ensuring that:
a vehicle that is suitable for both the number and quality of the service. These tasks
supply of service control technology agreement between the two companies
governs the provisions of Annex 1, paragraph 1.2.4. proven in accordance with point
checking the so-called quality parameters is considered irregular work
in the course of which [Company1] “has been prepared accordingly by its authorized person (s)
an irregularity documented by sound recording '.
Thus, according to the service control technology agreement, [Company1] - up to
You can also check the tasks of [Company2] or its employees
Thus, in the opinion of the Authority, the data controller quality of [Company1] is the service
data processing related to the control of [Company1] to [Company2]
checks the quality of the service, which is also the employee of [Company2]
also means the control of the work of the company, but the latter control of the [Company2]
matter falling within its competence. Checking with a voice recording made by the traffic control
can also be done.
Section 2.5.3 of Annex 2 to the Service Control Technology Agreement. point
according to which [Cég1] the documents and protocols generated during the inspections
forward it to the designated contact of [Company2] as the service provider.

17

According to the statement of [Company2], the purpose of transmitting the phonogram is unknown to him because
the sound recording was not made by him, he was not the data controller and he did not request that the recording be transmitted
sem. According to [Cég2], the purpose of transmitting the phonogram is the [Cég1]
the Applicant, an employee of [Company2], may not have been informed
spoke in tone to an employee of [Company1]. As a result, [Company2] so
he used the sound recording in such a way that he listened to it and it was uttered on it
initiated an employer's proceedings with the Applicant as an employee
against. That is, [Company2] in terms of the sound recording made by [Company1]
used it for its own purposes, initiated an employer procedure against the Applicant, a
for its own purposes, contrary to its declaration, it is considered an independent data controller.
The Authority therefore does not agree with the approach of service control
technology agreement adequacy of services provided only to passengers
regulates the rules and procedures of its control. In the Authority 's view,
service control technology agreement with the traffic control technology
shall be construed in conjunction with the Agreement and from the combined interpretation of the two Agreements
control of dispatcher activity can also be established. Traffic monitoring technology
to monitor the fulfillment of the tasks set out in this Agreement
1.2.2 of Annex 1 to the Agreement. Dispatcher tasks detailed in
the service control technology agreement
shall apply.
On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that [Company1] is [Company2] as a public service operator
and if it detects any irregularity in
- by sending the sound recording, if any - and the employer [Cég2] to this
may act appropriately against its own employee. Thus, [Company2] has a
prosecuting employees, following appropriate procedures, where appropriate
also using sound recordings.
Based on all this, it can be concluded that it is partly similar to joint data management
a construction was created in which the recordings were made by both companies for their own independent and separate purposes
use it. [Company1] uses to check the service of [Company2]
[Company2] took shots of its employees, while [Company2] provided job discipline
to investigate the liability of the employee concerned
them in the context of employer control. The control by voice recording is performed by [Company1]
selected, the recordings will be used in conjunction with [Company2] for different purposes.
The common point in data management is that in both cases [Company2] employees
personal data is processed and their activities are documented - the employee
technical means, however, it does not mean that it is actually common
it would be a matter of data management, as both companies handle the personal data of the data subjects separately
however, these objectives are interlinked or follow-up. THE
The Authority's position is therefore that both [Company1] and [Company2] are general
shall be considered as an independent controller within the meaning of Article 4 (7) of the Data Protection Regulation.
III. 2. Purpose and legal basis of data processing
1. Whatever the processing, the controller shall, inter alia, comply with it
principles of data management and have an appropriate legal basis.
According to Article 5 (1) (a) and (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data
processing of data lawfully and fairly and in a manner transparent to the data subject
and the collection of personal data is limited, clear and

18
they may be carried out for a legitimate purpose and shall not be incompatible with those purposes
way.
Data retention under Article 5 (1) (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
principle that personal data must be processed for the purposes of data processing
they should be appropriate and relevant and limited to what is necessary.
2. In the Authority's view, both [Company1's] monitoring of [Company2's] compliance with its public service obligations and [Company2's]
checking that your employees comply with the rules for working,
considered as a legitimate data processing purpose.
3. An additional condition for lawful data processing is that [Company1] and [Company2] are general
on the basis of a legal basis under Article 6 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation
personal data of data subjects in connection with the control of the service, if any
the necessity and proportionality of the data processing are justified.
4. According to the statement of [Cég1], the job of the dispatcher and the conversations of the dispatchers,
recording the statements made in the course of the provision of the service - thus the subject of the present proceedings
sound recording is also a characteristic of the job, and without it the job is not
can also be filled in, as the recallability of dispatcher declarations is important, and
its use as evidence. According to the statement of [Company1], the dispatchers
are responsible for providing the appropriate technical background for the public service and are responsible for it
also that a suitable vehicle in terms of number and quality serves the traveling mass. A [Company1]
According to the statement, the function and job of the dispatcher is essential for the
any disputes or disputes relating to the public service, and all such matters
based on passenger complaints
their conduct and employee performance.
In the Authority's view, the legal basis for data processing in the case of [Company1] is general
Article 6 (1) (e) of the Data Protection Regulation, which states that personal data
exercise of public authority or public authority over the controller
necessary for the performance of the task.
Of this
reason,
that
[…]
Municipality
in the public interest
tasks
to supply
has appointed [Company1] as the transport manager, which will carry out […] transport as a public task
One of the tasks related to the organization of [Company2] is to control [Company2] as
the quality of the service of the company entrusted with the provision of the service. That is, the [Company1] a
continue to control the service and related services within the scope of its public interest tasks
data management, ie data management is a task in the public interest and the resulting rights
necessary for the performance of its task.
Data management as a legal basis for data management necessary for the performance of a public interest task
it can be said that according to the domestic legal environment and the practice of the Constitutional Court, the person concerned
fundamental rights, including the right to self - determination of information, are only necessary and
proportionate, the exercise of a fundamental right or a constitutional value
in the public interest. It is therefore a condition for the application of this plea that
that the controller is necessary for the performance of its task in the public interest
data processing activities for a purpose based on the public interest by law or an EU norm
establish it. However, in many cases this legal provision is only the controller
defines its public task, scope and obligation related to it
no detailed rules for data management operations. If the legislature for these data processing
detailed rules for Infotv. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5 (3)
leaving it unchecked, the data controller shall comply with the general data protection rules - in particular the

19
principles and the necessity of the legal basis
and justify its legality in accordance with the principle of accountability.
Given that there is currently no legislation on data processing in the present case,
according to the general data protection rules, both [Company1] and [Company2] are obliged to handle data
to carry out its activities.
5. In the Authority's view, [Company2] is related to employee control
the legal basis for data processing is Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be the legal basis for a legitimate interest as not directly necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest
data handling.
The legal basis for the balancing of interests is in force before the General Data Protection Regulation
data protection directive regarding the processing of personal data of individuals
Directive 95/46 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data
The Working Party on Data Protection1 set up by Council Directive in its Opinion No 2
- which was also interpreted during the period of application of the General Data Protection Regulation
can be served - he dealt in detail. It is important that the controller has this legal basis
reference must be made to a balance of interests. Carrying out a balance of interests is one
means a multi-step process in which the legitimate interest of the controller must be identified,
and the data subject 's interest, the fundamental right concerned, which is the opposite of the weighting;
weighting should be used to determine whether personal data can be processed.
If, as a result of the balance of interests, it can be established that the data controller
legitimate interest precedes the data subject's right to the protection of personal data, so
manageable personal data.
From the principle of accountability under Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
consequently, the data controller must certify that the data processing it uses
compatible with the principle of purposeful data management.
6. [Company1] has a legitimate interest within the meaning of Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The legal basis for the provision of traffic management services by [Cég2] and
data management related to the control of its dispatchers, including data transmission
as a legal basis. The [Company1] has sent to the Authority the necessary legal basis
a document supporting the balance of interests. The Authority, in addition to finding that:
the legal basis of a legitimate interest on the part of [Company1] is not applicable to the processing of data under the present case -
after reviewing the balance of interests document, found the following.
[Company1] is a balancing test 2.1. explains in paragraph 1 that the contract or the contract
in the case of any claims arising in connection with the performance of a public task, the
without data processing, only statements would be opposed to each other, so where appropriate, a
[Company1] would not be able to justify the breach of contract before a court. However, [Company1]
did not adequately examine in the balancing test whether there was another method
which could trigger telephone communication and is therefore sufficiently effective and retrospective
could be justified.
The identification of the interests and rights of the parties concerned
Furthermore, point 3 did not fully assess the interests of data subjects in data management

The Data Protection Working Party shall, prior to the date of application of the General Data Protection Regulation,
and an independent European advisory body on privacy issues, replaced by the European Data Protection Supervisor
Privacy Board has stepped in.
1

The opinion is available at the following link: http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/documentation/opinionrecommendation/files/2014/wp217_en.pdf
2

20
with regard to. In the Authority's view, in the case of the impugned data processing, where different
The data of the employees of the service provider are also handled by [Cég1], a particularly important guarantee
prior, adequate and transparent information on data management is required. The
According to point 5 of the balancing of interests, predictability and proportionality are enhanced by the fact that [Company1]
and the contractor also provides complete, clear and comprehensible information to the data subject
data management and related information. Contradicts that
however, the fact that neither [Company2] nor the Applicant was aware of the data processing.
Principle of accountability under Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the data controller must implement the
data management operations in order to be able to comply with data protection rules
to prove. The principle of accountability, so not just in general, at the process level
interpretable, all specific data management activities, a specific data subject
also applies to the processing of your personal data.
It follows from the principle of accountability that the data controller is responsible for what he or she does
for the lawfulness of data processing. To the controller, regardless of the legal basis
base your data management, you must be able to indicate exactly why it is necessary and proportionate
data management must also be able to prove and prove this, as well as data management
should be documented in a transparent manner.
In the present case, the purpose of the data processing and the interest of the employer behind it are legitimate, however
[Company1] is another person who triggers the processing of personal data in connection with the processing of the Applicant's personal data
did not examine the existence of a method or a comparison of the interests of the data subject and the data controller
has not carried out and does not regulate its data management in a transparent manner, so [Company1]
balancing test does not meet the requirements. Data management concerning the Applicant
due to an improper balance of interests, the Authority finds that [Company1]
breach of Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
principle of accountability or the lack of an appropriate legal basis
infringed Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Authority also draws attention to the balancing exercise of [Company1]
test is about data management that affects the employees of [Company2], but about this test
they or [Company2] itself did not receive any information and [Company2] 's employees
[Company2] may decide on data processing concerning Thus, [Company1] is available to the Authority
on the basis of this information, decided on a data management that neither [Company2] nor its
employees did not know.
7. In view of the fact that [Company2] also participated in the data processing objected to by the Applicant,
Authority examined the legal basis of its data processing ex officio. According to the statement of [Company2] a
The telephone (s) suitable for voice recording are operated by [Company1] and are therefore operated on this line
compliance with the data protection rules relating to the recording of conversations shall also apply only to
Charges [Company1] as data controller. According to [Company2], not in this data management
is not considered a data controller. The Authority found otherwise in the present case
decision III. In point 1 that [Company2] by controlling the work of the Applicant
used the sound recordings received from [Company1] in this context, as appropriate
also in the case of employees, on the basis of which he has also taken action by his employer, thus
it is considered an independent data controller for this data processing purpose. Consequently, on this
you must comply with data protection requirements with regard to data processing. Given that
that [Company2] did not consider itself to be a data controller, nor a legal basis for data processing
the Authority finds that [Company2] has treated the
The personal data of the applicant, in breach of Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
the principle of accountability under Article 6 (2) and Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Article.

21
[Company2], in general, as explained above, Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
on the basis of Article 1 (1) (f)
in the context of the inspection in the present case.
III. 3. Information on data management
Based on the above, it can be concluded that two interconnected data processing is performed by the
[Company1] and [Company2] [Company1] to check the quality of [Company2] 's service
use recordings of telephone calls made by [Company2] employees, while
the [Company2], if he finds an offense of professional discipline, is an employee of the person concerned
use them for the purpose of examining the responsibility of the employer, in the context of employer control, such as
as in the present case concerning the Applicant.
However, although they are interconnected data processing, their purpose is fundamentally different,
therefore, adequate information on both data processing should be provided to data subjects, [Company2]
for its employees.
Both the General Data Protection Ordinance and the Mt. require that data subjects, a
employees, in this case the Applicant, must be informed in advance of the data processing
circumstances. The general information set out in the Mt.
obligation is fulfilled by the content of the general data protection regulation, which defines it
the circumstances in which the employer must inform the employees. THE
neither the general data protection regulation nor the Mt.
however, the Authority recommends a written format for the reason that - accountability
also follows from the principle that the controller must provide prior information
has happened.
According to the statement of [Company1], the job of the dispatcher and the conversations of the dispatchers,
recording the statements made in the course of the provision of the service arising from the job
characteristic and from the job of any person holding a dispatcher position
due to the knowledge of the service control technology agreement
must be about it. Without it, this job cannot be filled, as the dispatcher is important
the recallability of statements or their use as evidence. From this
consequently, in the view of [Company1], there can be no case where a dispatcher
in the course of his work he does not know about sound recording, so as the Applicant has the control
regulatory service control technology agreement
including the fact that sound recordings have been made,
he had to know.
According to the statement of [Company2], the telephone (s) suitable for voice recording are operated by [Company1],
therefore, the data protection rules for the recording of conversations on this line
compliance with it is also the sole responsibility of him as data controller. According to [Company2], in this
does not take part in data processing, so in the absence of data processing it does so
no information may be provided on its part.
The Authority's position on information management is that [Company2]
dispatchers by familiarizing themselves with the service control technology agreement
they were given detailed information on the control of the service in general by [Company1]
their course, rules, and they may have known that by voice recording
they can check their work or the service provided by [Company2]. However the
the service control technology agreement only contains a general statement that
that [Company1] may make a voice recording in connection with the verification of the service, but not separately
includes the control of traffic management activities within [Company2]
by checking the recorded telephone calls of its dispatchers, hence the agreement
according to [Company1] continuously records telephone calls in all cases.

22
Furthermore, the service control technology agreement does not include the general
data processing pursuant to Article 13 (1) to (2) of the Data Protection Regulation
information or did not prove that he would have informed the
Applicant (and other stakeholders).
Consequently, the Authority finds that [Company1] did not provide adequate information
information on data management for the Applicant - and the dispatchers of [Company2].
Furthermore, given that Annex III to this Decision According to point 1, [Company2] is also a data controller
should have also informed the Applicant - and its further dispatchers - of the
data management by him.
Fairness under Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation and
principle of transparency, in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (39)
requires the processing of personal data
information is easily accessible and comprehensible and that it is clear and
they are worded in simple language. This principle applies in particular to those concerned with
the identity of the controller and the purpose of the processing
for further information in order to ensure the fair and personal disclosure of the data subject 's personal data
transparent treatment and the information that data subjects have a right
receive confirmation and information about the data processed about them.
Given that there are two separate data controllers and two separate data controllers
we are talking about, both [Company1] and [Company2] must provide transparent information
data management for the Applicant. However, based on the statements, the Authority
notes that neither [Company1] nor [Company2] provided transparent information to the Applicant
in breach of Article 5 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(a) and Article 13 (1) to (2).
In general, however, it is not excluded that [Company1] and [Company2] are common
provide the information in a document that is clear and transparent
the two purposes of the data processing and all the data processing purposes
Article 13 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
appropriately. In connection with the provision of information, it may be justified to have a contract between the two companies
provide for the fulfillment of this obligation.
In addition, the Authority considers that, given the nature of the data processing, the control
the data subject shall be informed of the
or data has been recorded or must be able to exercise it
General Data Protection Regulation III. the rights of the data subject under Chapter II, where applicable
protest against the data processing.
III. 4. Informing the Applicant about the processing of his / her personal data
The Applicant's legal representative will provide written information on 9 October and 2 December 2019
on the processing of the personal data requested by [Company1].
In connection with the provision of personal data of the Applicant to the Requesting Authority
on the basis of the documents submitted by [Cég1] on 9 October 2019 and 2 December 2019
by letters dated 14 November 2019 and 18 December 2019
informed him. Of these two letters, the Applicant will provide information about the Applicant's personal data
The letter of 9 October 2019 and the letter of 14 November 2019 from [Cég1] shall apply. A [Company1]
in this letter he informed the Applicant about the purpose and legal basis of the data processing, the data subject
personal data, the identity of the data controller, the duration of the data processing,
enforcement options and that the Applicant is expected to

23
waived the deletion of the phonogram in view of the needs to be enforced
restricted access to it. In addition, [Company1] sent it to the Applicant
a copy of the sound recording complained of.
The General Data Protection Regulation regulates access in the context of data subjects' rights
the right to On this basis, according to Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
the data subject is entitled to receive feedback from the controller that:
whether the processing of your personal data is in progress and, if such processing is in progress,
has the right to access your personal data and data management information
access.
Regarding how to provide information about data management, your data controllers
obligations are detailed in Article 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Article 23 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation also sets out that
special cases in the existence of which the rights of the data subject may be restricted, such as
right of access.
On the basis of the letter from [Cég1] dated 14 November 2019, it can be concluded that [Cég1]
informed the Applicant of his personal data in accordance with Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation
and sent him the contested sound recording
a copy. [Company1] therefore provided Article 15 of the Applicant's General Data Protection Regulation
the Authority will not find an infringement in this respect.
III. 5. Sanctioning

1. The Authority, granting the Applicant's application in part, hereby approves Annex III to this Decision. In point 2
found that, although [Company1] relied on the general legal basis for its data processing
Article 6 (1) (f) of the Data Protection Regulation, the Authority considers that this is not the case
applicable legal basis in the case of the contested data processing or data transfer, on the other hand a
the balance of interests in the legal basis of the legitimate interest did not justify the Applicant - and [Company2]
the need for data management concerning additional dispatchers. Consequently, the Authority
found that [Company1] had infringed Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the principle of accountability set out in
that it relied on an inappropriate legal basis infringed Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Article.
The Authority, granting the Applicant's request in part and ex officio, hereby approves Annex III to this Decision. 3.
It also stated that neither [Company1] nor [Company2] had provided
adequate, transparent information to the Applicant on data management, both companies
infringed Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation Article 13 (1) to (2)
paragraph.
The Authority also instructed [Company1] and [Company2] ex officio to
accountability, on an appropriate legal basis, respectively
[Company1] transmits the sound of the dispatchers of [Company2] as well as about the data management
in accordance with Article 13 (1) to (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
transparent information.
The Authority shall act ex officio in accordance with Article 58 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
III. In paragraph 2, it is also stated that, although [Company2] does not
handled the Applicant's personal data, the recording of his / her voice, thus the legal basis for data processing
nor did he define himself, however, he used the labor consequences
in order to apply it. As a result, [Company2] also became a data controller, managed by
Petitioner 's voice, however, in the absence of proof of a plea in law, is also infringed

24
the principle of accountability under Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and
Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Authority will reject the part of the Applicant's application that the Authority will establish
that the [Company1]
-

breached Article 5 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the principle of purposeful data management;

-

breached Article 5 (1) (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the principle of data saving;

-

at the request of the Applicant did not provide adequate information about his personal data
in breach of Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.

2. The Authority has examined whether it is justified to treat [Company1] or [Company2]
imposition of a data protection fine. In this context, the Authority is Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation
(2) and Infotv. 75 / A. § considered all the circumstances of the case and
found that no warning had been given in respect of the infringements detected in the present proceedings
is a proportionate and non-dissuasive sanction and a fine should therefore be imposed.
In setting the amount of the fine, the Authority took into account, in particular, that:
Infringement by [Company1] and [Company2] under Article 83 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation
Infringement falling within the higher category of fines pursuant to paragraph 1 (b)
it counts as.
In addition, the Authority
In determining the amount of the fine, it took into account the technological differences between them
agreements, it was not clear to [Company2] that the Applicant
the impugned data processing also covers the employees of [Company2]. In the Authority 's view,
agreements need to be clarified, avoiding agreements between two companies
different interpretation (Article 83 (2) (k) of the General Data Protection Regulation).
The Authority has imposed a data protection fine on both [Company1] and [Company2].
as an attenuating circumstance in determining the amount of
-

the uniqueness of the data protection scheme, which was examined by the Authority for the first time
[Article 83 (2) (k) of the General Data Protection Regulation];

-

the deterioration of the financial situation caused by the coronavirus epidemic in both companies
[Article 83 (2) (k) of the General Data Protection Regulation].

3. The Authority shall determine the amount of the data protection fine imposed on [Company1]
taken into account as an aggravating circumstance in determining
-

[Company1] has already been convicted of a breach of the General Data Protection Regulation
[Article 83 (2) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation]. The Authority shall
dated September 3, NAIH / 2020/876/12. in its decision number
found that [Company1] had not informed the
Applicant about the personal data processed about him and the data processing concerning him
or that the Applicant's data processing restrictions have not been complied with
and instructed [Company1] to inform the
Applicant about the personal data processed about him and data management concerning him
information. The Authority will also pay a data protection fine of HUF 500,000
ordered [Company1] for the infringements it had committed.

The Authority shall determine the amount of the data protection fine imposed on [Company1]
considered as an attenuating circumstance that

25
-

[Company1] and [Company2] are the service control technology agreement
and, given that it was not previously established between them
agreement on data management, which is also being replaced [general
Article 83 (2) (f) of the Data Protection Regulation];

-

the Authority has exceeded the administrative deadline [Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph (k)].

The Authority will not impose a data protection fine on [Company1]
considered relevant Article 83 (2) (a), (b), (c), (d), (g) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
(h), (i) and (j), as they cannot be interpreted in the context of the specific case.
The net sales revenue of [Cég1] in 2019 was in the order of HUF 90,000.00 million,
thus, the data protection fine imposed is distant from the maximum fine that can be imposed.
4. The Authority shall determine the amount of the data protection fine imposed on [Company2]
The use of the recordings by [Cég2] took into account as an aggravating circumstance
caused damage to the Applicant by losing his job [General Data Protection
Article 83 (2) (k) of the Regulation];
The Authority shall determine the amount of the data protection fine imposed on [Company2]
considered as an attenuating circumstance that
-

to convict [Company2] for violating the General Data Protection Regulation
has not taken place [Article 83 (2) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation].

-

the Authority has exceeded the administrative deadline [Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph (k)].

The net sales revenue of [Cég2] in 2019 was in the order of HUF 49,000.00 million,
thus, the data protection fine imposed is distant from the maximum fine that can be imposed.
III. 6. Deadline exceeded
In the course of the procedure, the Authority exceeded the Infotv. One hundred and twenty days in accordance with Section 60 / A (1)
administrative deadline, therefore Ákr. Pursuant to Section 51 b), it pays ten thousand forints to the Applicant.
ARC. Other issues:
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.
The present decision of the Authority is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). THE
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final upon its communication. The Ákr. Section 112
and § 116 (1) and (4) (d) and § 114 (1)
there is an administrative remedy against the decision.
***
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 135, the debtor is in arrears at a rate corresponding to the statutory interest
he is obliged to pay a supplement if he fails to meet his obligation to pay money on time.
The Civil Code. 6:48. § (1), in the case of a debt owed, the debtor is in arrears
valid on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay
shall pay default interest at the same rate as the basic interest.

26
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3)
Pursuant to subparagraph (a) (aa), the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. A Kp. § 27
Paragraph 1 (b) in a dispute in which the tribunal has exclusive jurisdiction
competent, legal representation is mandatory. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of the administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with regard to this, Act CXXX of 2016 on Civil Procedure.
applicable in accordance with Section 604 of the Act, electronic administration and trust services
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of According to Section 9 (1) (b) of the Act no
the client's legal representative is obliged to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on.
On the reintroduction of certain procedural measures in the event of an emergency
112/2021. (III. 6.) of the Government of the Republic of Hungary (hereinafter: Veir.), If this decree
the tightening of the defense does not affect the running of the time limits. Section 36 (1) - (3) of the Act
During the enhanced defense, the court shall act out of court, including
review procedures. If a hearing were to be held or requested by either party,
or a hearing has already been scheduled, the trial court will notify the parties out of turn at the hearing
and give the parties the opportunity to make their statements in writing
put forward. Should a trial be held outside the time of the defensive defense,
the plaintiff may then request the court to hear the trial in lieu of an out-of-court settlement
postpone the date of termination of the enhanced defense if:
has not ordered, at least in part, the suspensory effect of an administrative act,
bringing an action has suspensory effect and the court has not ordered the suspension of the suspensory effect
(c) no interim measure has been ordered.
The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee
the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall exempt the person initiating the proceedings
half.
If the Applicant does not duly prove the fulfillment of the required obligation, the
The Authority considers that it has not complied with the obligation within the time limit. The Ákr. Section 132
if the Applicant has not complied with the obligation set out in the final decision of the authority,
the executable. The decision of the Authority With the communication pursuant to Section 82 (1)
it becomes final. The Ákr. Section 133 enforcement - if you are a law
Government decree does not provide otherwise - it is ordered by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. 134.
§ pursuant to the implementation - if by law, government decree or municipal authority
In this case, the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - the state tax authority
implements. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (7) of the Authority,
to perform a specific act, to behave, to tolerate or
the Authority shall enforce the decision in respect of the standstill obligation
implements.
Budapest, April 27, 2021
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

