1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00374/2019

938-090320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On August 25, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a brief presented by Don A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against TODO FUNDICIÓN, S.L.,
with NIF B14997571 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the installation of a
video surveillance installed in *** ADDRESS.1, there are indications of a possible
breach of the provisions of the data protection regulations.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents

provided by the claimant are the following:

That he denounced the same entity for having a panoramic camera of
recording on the exterior ceiling of the door of "TODO FUNDICIÓN S.L." located in the
***ADDRESS.1, focused on public roads. Attached: photographic report.

It adds that sanctioning procedure PS/00375/2018 was carried out, which

ended in Warning, and that nothing has changed.

SECOND: The Spanish Agency for Data Protection notified all the documents
sanction procedure PS/00375/2018, electronically, as required
Law 39/2015, and such notifications were expired.

THIRD: On January 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 02/25/20, the collaboration of the Security Forces and Corps is required.
State Security to travel to the scene of the events and carry out the
timely inquiries.

FIFTH: On 06/12/20, this Agency received a reply from the Management
Police General (Córdoba Provincial Police Station), stating the following:

“Before this Unit appeared B.B.B., owner of the house located in
***ADDRESS.1 and (...), being able to verify that in portal nº 6, there was a
support of what could have been a video-surveillance camera and that in the portal
No. 4 there is a casing of the aforementioned establishment (...), being reflected in
Separate record attached and photographic document (annexes 1-2)”.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 08/25/19 a claim was received from the epigrapher by means of which
transfers as the main fact the installation of a video surveillance system in
***ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the provisions of
data protection regulations.

Second. The company Todo Fundición has been identified as the main responsible party.
S.L, with NIF B14997571.

Third. The complainant states that the video surveillance device continues
installed in ***ADDRESS.1, without proceeding to uninstall the
itself, although it does not certify its operability.

Fourth. It is proven that there is currently no camera at the scene of the events.
of any video-surveillance, after corroboration by the Security Forces and Bodies
displaced for legal purposes.

A photograph is attached (doc. nº 1 Report 03/06/20) in which the only thing that exists
It is a casing where the camera under investigation could presumably be installed.
complaint.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each
Control Authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent
te to start and solve this procedure.

II

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image
natural persons) carried out through the video surveillance system denouncing
ciated is in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow it to be considered lawful

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

the processing of personal data.

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of processing
to, provides that the personal data will be "adequate, pertinent and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")." This article enshrines the principle of data minimization in the treatment
of personal data. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to
the purpose to which it is directed, and the processing of excessive data must be restricted.
you or proceed to delete them.

The relevance in the treatment of the data must occur both in the
the collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on the same.
mos.

Article 13, sections 1 and 2, of the RGPD, establishes the information that must be
be provided to the interested party at the time of data collection. In the case of
processing of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems
or video cameras, the duty of information can be fulfilled by placing, in
video-monitored areas, of an informative badge located in a place sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces, and using forms in the
that the planned information is detailed, which the person in charge must make available
of those interested.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD,
referring specifically to the "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the treatment
ing of images in public places can only be carried out -if applicable and pre-
saw compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and Bodies
of Security, unless the exception established in the aforementioned article 22 operates
of the LOPDGDD for individuals or legal entities, public or private, respecting
do the conditions required in said article.

On some occasions, the protection of private spaces is only possible if
the cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes it is also necessary
ary to capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that, although the camera is
inside the building, it is impossible not to record a minimal and important part
dispensable from the public road, which is inevitably captured.

In order for this exception on the protection of private spaces to apply,
cable, there shall be no alternative installation possibility. In these cases, the
responsible for the treatment carried out through cameras will adapt the use of the
so that the impact on the rights of third parties (passers-by) is minimal.
mo possible. In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

IV

The claim is based on the presumed illegality of the installation by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

called from a video surveillance system, consisting of a camera located in the
door of the claimed company, at ***ADDRESS.1, which could capture images
of public areas disproportionately.

In addition, the claimant warns that the property reviewed does not have a sign
in which the presence of the cameras and the identity of the res-
responsible for data processing, so that interested persons can exercise
cite the rights provided for in arts. 15 to 22 of the GDPR.

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the evidence

indicated in the “Facts” section, first point, of this agreement.

Based on the foregoing, this Agency considered that there were indications of the
installation of a video surveillance camera(s) at ***ADDRESS.1 that could
capture images of public roads in excess, as well as the absence of the necessary distinctive
I am informative.

v

In the investigation phase, the displacement to the place of the facts by the
of the State Security Forces and Corps (Córdoba National Police) issued
I have Report dated 03/06/20.

Sometimes those responsible for this type of device leave them installed.
two, but they are not operational, that is, they do not perform "personal data processing",
so that even if they are observed from the outside, the operation is not accredited.
life of them.

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following.

“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the corresponding legal requirements,
teeth the facts verified by those are collected will prove them except
prove the contrary”.

After carrying out the appropriate inquiries, it is verified that the device denounces
denounced, has been removed from the place that is the object of the complaint, and there is only one carca-
sa, without any device, reason why it is appropriate to order the Archive of this
procedure, as the commission of any administrative infraction was not accredited.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, having examined the facts subject to
complaint, based on the foregoing,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to TODO FUNDICIÓN, S.L. and to the side
complainant Mr. A.A.A.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

