1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00314/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated March 6, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against CITY COUNCIL OF FUENTE EL SAZ DE JARAMA with
NIF P2805900D (hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the aforementioned council lacks a
data protection officer.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/03620/2020, transfer of
said claim to the respondent, on June 5, 2020, so that he could proceed with his
analysis and report to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On October 5, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 37 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: On October 20, 2020, the respondent submits a written
stating that he has already complied with the obligation to have a protection delegate
of data

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The city council did not have a Data Protection Officer.

SECOND: Currently, after the claim filed against the city council,
it has a Data Protection Delegate.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

II

The Public Administrations act as data controllers of
personal character and, on some occasions, they exercise functions of those in charge of
treatment, for what corresponds to them, following the principle of responsibility
proactively, meet the obligations that the RGPD details, among which is included, the
obligation to appoint a data protection delegate and communicate it to this
AEPD
The obligation is imposed by article 37 of the RGPD, which indicates:

"1. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will designate a delegate of
data protection provided that:

a) the treatment is carried out by a public authority or body, except those
courts acting in the exercise of their judicial function;”

Article 37.3 and 4 of the RGPD indicates about the appointment of the DPD "When the
The person responsible or the person in charge of the treatment is a public authority or body,
may designate a single data protection delegate for several of these
authorities or bodies, taking into account their organizational structure and size.

4. In cases other than those referred to in section 1, the person in charge or the
in charge of the treatment or the associations and other organisms that represent
categories of managers or managers may designate a protection delegate
of data or they must designate it if so required by the Law of the Union or of the States
members. The data protection delegate may act on behalf of these
associations and other organizations that represent those responsible or in charge.”

The LOPDGDD determines in its article 34.1 and 3: "Appointment of a delegate of
Data Protection "
Those responsible and in charge of the treatment must designate a delegate
1.
data protection law in the cases provided for in article 37.1 of the Regulation
Document (EU) 2016/679 and, in any case, in the case of the following entities:

3. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment will communicate within a period of ten
days to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection or, where appropriate, to the authorities
regional authorities for data protection, appointments, appointments and dismissals of
the data protection delegates both in the cases in which they are
obliged to their designation as in the case in which it is voluntary.

The infringement is considered as such in article 83.4.a of the RGPD, which states: “4. The
Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 a
39, 42 and 43;”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under article
58, paragraph 2, each Member State may establish rules on whether it is possible, and in what
measure, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established
in that Member State."

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period.

In this sense, article 77.1 c) and 2, 4 and 5 of the LOPGDD, indicates:

1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the Communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2 “When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 commit any
of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning
the same with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any."

4. The resolutions that fall on the data protection authority must be communicated.
in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under
of this article.”

III

Article 73 of the LOPDDG indicates: Infractions considered serious
“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

v) Failure to comply with the obligation to appoint a data protection delegate
when their appointment is required in accordance with article 37 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and article 34 of this organic law.”

By means of a letter of allegations dated October 20, 2020, the CITY COUNCIL
DE FUENTE EL SAZ DE JARAMA, has stated that it has already designated Delegate
Data Protection.

Despite this, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctions the claimant with
a sanction of warning since it should have had a delegate of
data protection in accordance with the provisions of article 37 of the RGPD,
since May 25, 2018, when the GDPR came into force.

Considering the aforementioned precepts and others of general application,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE EL SAZ DE JARAMA CITY COUNCIL, with
NIF P2805900D, for an infringement of article 37 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.4 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF FUENTE EL
JARAMA SAZ.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

