SAFEGUARDING 
INDIVIDUALS' DIGITAL 
RIGHTS

ANNUAL
REPORT

2023

1

EDPB Annual Report 2023EDPB Annual Report 2023TABLE OF CONTENTS

FOREWORD 

HIGHLIGHTS 2023 

1.  THE EDPB SECRETARIAT  

1.1.  MISSION AND ACTIVITIES IN 2023 

4

6

8

9

1.2.  RE-ORGANISING THE SECRETARIAT IN 2023 

12

2.  EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD - 

ACTIVITIES IN 2023 

2.1.  BINDING DECISIONS 

2.2. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS 

2.3.  GENERAL GUIDANCE 

2.3.1. 

2.3.2. 

Guidelines 03/2022 on deceptive 
design patterns in social media 
platform interfaces: how to recognise 
and avoid them 

Guidelines 05/2022 on the use of facial 
recognition technology in the area of 
law enforcement 

2.4. 

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

2.4.1. 

2.4.2. 

Opinion 5/2023 on the European 
Commission Draft Implementing 
Decision on the adequate protection 
of personal data under the EU-US Data 
Privacy Framework 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 01/2023 
on the Proposal for a Regulation 
of the European Parliament and of 
the Council laying down additional 

14

14

19

21

21

22

23

24

procedural rules relating to the 
enforcement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679  26

2.5. 

STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 

2.5.1. 

2.5.2. 

Public consultation 

Survey on practical application of 
adopted guidance 

2.6.  REPRESENTING THE EDPB WORLDWIDE 

3.  ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION AND 

ENFORCEMENT BY DPAs 

3.1. 

3.2. 

3.3. 

EDPB ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT GDPR 
ENFORCEMENT AND COOPERATION 
AMONG DPAs  

COOPERATION UNDER THE GDPR 

CASE DIGEST 

3.4.  NATIONAL CASES WITH EXERCISE OF 

CORRECTIVE POWERS 

4.  ANNEXES  

4.1.  DPA BUDGET AND STAFF 

4.2.  GENERAL GUIDANCE ADOPTED IN 2023 

4.3.  BINDING DECISIONS ADOPTED IN 2023 

4.4. 

4.5. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 2023 

CONSULTATIONS RELATING TO 
LEGISLATION AND TO DRAFT ADEQUACY 
DECISIONS 

4.6.  OTHER DOCUMENTS 

27

27

27

28

30

30

33

34

35

57

57

57

58

58

61

61

2

3

EDPB Annual Report 2023FOREWORD

I  am  pleased  to  present  the  European  Data  Protection  Board’s  (EDPB) 
2023 Annual Report. In this report, you will find details about the EDPB’s 
achievements and milestones, during another transformative year for the 
Board. 2023 was my first year as Chair of the EDPB, a role I took over from 
Andrea  Jelinek.  I  would  like  to  thank  Andrea  once  more  for  her  expert 
leadership and unyielding commitment, which helped shape the EDPB.

Today, the EDPB is a unique body with great responsibilities and far-reaching 
impact. We have built an impressive compendium of guidelines, created new 
cooperation methods for the authorities, and adopted significant decisions 
to ensure that authorities apply the GDPR in a correct and consistent manner. 
We also worked a lot to raise awareness of the GDPR at the European and 
international levels, so that individuals know their rights and exercise them, 
and that companies, even small ones, can understand how to comply with 
their legal duties.

In 2023, notable achievements include the launch of our Data Protection 
Guide for Small Business (April), a user-friendly website offering guidance 
and practical suggestions and helping to navigate the many resources Data 

EDPB Annual Report 2023Protection Authorities (DPAs), at national level, have created on the GDPR.

The  binding  and  urgent  binding  decisions  we  adopted  in  2023  gave 
important common interpretations of data protection law and key legal 
principles that shape the digital landscape, for example on the international 
transfers of personal data (April), on unfair design practices of social media 
apps targeting children (August) or on the behavioural advertising practices 
of social media networks (October). They also led, often, to very large fines 
imposed by the Lead Supervisory Authorities.

We continued to build and expand our enforcement cooperation methods, 
to ensure that DPAs can enforce more effectively. In March, we launched our 
second Coordinated Enforcement Framework action, this time focusing on 
the very important role DPOs have in ensuring organisations’ compliance with 
the GDPR. We also gave input to the European Commission’s draft Regulation 
to harmonise administrative procedures, which - once implemented - can be 
a leap forward in overcoming obstacles to cooperation between authorities 
and enforcement (September).

The European Union continues to take on a pioneering role in regulating 
technology with a cluster of new laws like the Digital Markets Act, the Digital 
Services Act and the Artificial Intelligence Act, which build on the foundations 
of data protection legislation. As I write this, we are in the process of shaping 
our new Strategy. It will help us face the many challenges that lie ahead of 
us, so that the EDPB can continue to ensure that technologies and the digital 
economy are in line with our values and fundamental right of data protection.

Anu Talus

Chair of the European Data Protection Board

EDPB Annual Report 2023HIGHLIGHTS 2023

MARCH 15

MAY 22

Launch of the 2023 Coordinated 
Enforcement Action, focusing on 
the designation and position of 

Data Protection O(cid:31)cers

€1.2 billion (cid:30)ne to Meta Ireland 
Limited issued by the Irish DPA 
following the EDPB's Binding 

Decision 1/2023

FEBRUARY 28

APRIL 27

MAY 25

Election of Anu Talus as the new 

Chair and Irene Loizidou Nikolaidou 

as the new Deputy Chair

Opinion 5/2023 on the draft 

adequacy decision regarding the 
EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework

Launch of the EDPB Data Protection 

Guide for Small Business

6

SEPTEMBER 15

OCTOBER 27

€345 million (cid:30)ne against TikTok 
Technology Limited by the Irish 
DPA, following EDPB's Binding 

Decision 2/2023

Urgent Binding Decision 01/2023 
instructing the Irish DPA to take, 
within two weeks, (cid:30)nal measures 
regarding Meta Ireland Limited

SEPTEMBER 19

EDPB/EDPS joint opinion on a 
Proposal for a Regulation laying 
down additional procedural rules 
relating to the enforcement of the 

GDPR

DECEMBER 12-13
Contribution to the European 
Commission's report on the 
application of the GDPR under 

Art. 97

7

1. THE EDPB SECRETARIAT 

The EDPB Secretariat - At the heart of the 
EDPB  

2023 has been another remarkable year for the 
EDPB and the EDPB Secretariat, with landmark 
binding  decisions,  a  series  of  initiatives  to 
boost  enforcement  cooperation,  important 
guidelines and opinions on draft legislation, 
 the launch of our Data Protection Guide for  
Small Business, and not in the least: the election  
of Anu Talus as the new EDPB Chair. 

I  am  proud  to  say  that,  over  the  years, 
the  EDPB  Secretariat  has  established 
itself  as  a  robust,  widely  respected  and 
dynamic  organisation.  The  Secretariat  has 
gone  through  a  considerable  evolution 
since  its  establishment.  Back  in  2018,  we 
started  off  with  a  dozen  professionals,   
 

mainly providing logistical and administrative 
support  to  the  Board,  while  today  we  are  a 
group  of  highly  specialised  and  dynamic 
individuals, organised in 5 sectors, working 
together  for  a  common  goal.  We  are  fully 
committed to making sure the GDPR delivers. 

However,  there  is  a  vital  need  for  more 
resources  to  ensure  that  the  EDPB  can 
continue to fulfil its missions and comply with 
its legal duties.  

The EDPB Secretariat supports the Board in 
drafting binding decisions and in defending 
the  EDPB  in  Court.  It  also  contributes  to 
the  preparation  of  other  EDPB  documents, 
such  as  guidance  and  legal  advice  on  new   
legislative proposals. It disseminates this work  
to the public, ensures press relations for the  
EDPB, and supports the Chair in her role of  
 

8

representing the Board. The EDPB Secretariat 
also  develops  and  runs  the  EDPB’s  IT  tools 
which are used by approximately 1,500 staff 
members  of  EEA  supervisory  authorities.   
It organised over 360 EDPB meetings in 2023,  
during  which  members  prepare  the  EDPB 
documents aimed at a consistent application 
of data protection laws in Europe.  

It  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  the  EDPB 
Secretariat is essential to the work of the EDPB.  

However,  we  face  increasing  challenges  as 
the number of our tasks is growing. The EDPB 
Secretariat  is  now  providing  the  secretariat 
of the Coordinated Supervisory Committee, 
which  ensures  coordinated  supervision  of   
large  scale  IT  systems  and  EU  bodies  and   
agencies. In 2023, this activity extended to the  
supervision  of  the  Schengen  Information 
System,  in  addition  to  the  Europol,  EPPO, 
Eurojust  and  IMI  that  were  already  falling 
under the framework of the EDPB activities.  
Besides,  as  enforcement  picks  up  speed  at 
national level, so does the EDPB Secretariat’s 
work  to  prepare  an  increasing  number  of 
Binding  Decisions  and  handle  litigation 
actions related to them.  

In the last six years, the EDPB has done a great 
deal to ensure guidance, consistency, building 
a  framework  for  the  new  compliance  tools, 
such  as  codes  of  conduct  and  certification 
mechanisms  and  promote  cooperation  on 
enforcement  and  I  am  confident  we  will 
continue  to  evolve  to  face  the  challenges 
presented by GDPR implementation.  

Isabelle VEREECKEN 

Head of the EDPB Secretariat

1.1.  MISSION AND ACTIVITIES IN 2023

The EDPB Secretariat offers analytical, administrative 
and  logistical  support  to  the  EDPB.  In  practice,  
the EDPB Secretariat drafts guidelines, legal advice 
and binding decisions, provides IT solutions to ensure 
secured and transparent communications between 
all the European national Data Protection Authorities 
(DPAs),  handles  media  relations,  and  organises 
meetings. 

The  terms  of  cooperation  between  the  EDPB  and 
the  EDPS  are  established  by  the Memorandum  of 
Understanding. The EDPS employs the staff at the 
EDPB  Secretariat.  However,  they  work  exclusively 
under  the  instructions  of  the  Chair  of  the  EDPB.  
A dedicated title exists in the EDPS budget to cover 
both the budget of the EDPB Secretariat and of the 
EDPB as a whole (e.g., meeting costs, translation and 
interpretation costs). It includes the 46 staff members 
who  work  within  the  EDPB  Secretariat  or  within 
the EDPS for the support provided to the EDPB via 
horizontal administrative services.  

The  EDPB  Secretariat  provides  analytical  and 
legislative  support  to  the  Board.  As  such,  in  2023,  
the EDPB Secretariat led the drafting of ten opinions, 
two  guidelines  and  three  binding  decisions,  
and contributed to a further fourteen opinions.

The  EDPB  Secretariat  also  supports  the  EDPB  in 
enforcing  data  protection  laws. The  EDPB  ensures 
consistent enforcement and promotes cooperation 
amongst DPAs. For a small number of complex cases 
on which DPAs cannot agree via consensus, the EDPB 
adopts  binding  decisions.  The  EDPB  Secretariat,  
as the neutral party among DPAs, supports the EDPB 
with the drafting of these decisions. 

In  addition,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  provides  the 
Secretariat  of  the  Coordinated  Supervision 

9

EDPB Annual Report 2023Committee (CSC). The CSC ensures the coordinated 
supervision  of  large  scale  IT  systems  and  of  EU 
bodies,  offices  and  agencies,  in  accordance  with  
Art. 62 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 or with the EU 
legal act establishing the large scale IT system or the 
EU body, office or agency.

The EDPB budget forms part of the broader budget of 
the EDPS. In 2023, the budget of the EDPB amounted 
to €7.67 million. This budget supports the growth 
of enforcement and litigation activities, and covers 
expenditure for EDPB meetings at the plenary and 
subgroup level, translation and interpretation costs, 
IT services, and remuneration of the EDPB Secretariat 
staff. An amending budget of +€300,000 was granted 
during  2023  due  to  the  significant  increase  in 
litigation activities.   

In  2023,  the  EDPB  was  involved  as  a  party  in  12 
cases before the CJEU, of which 10 were submitted 
in 2023,1 one at the end of 20222 and one in 2021.3  
The vast majority of the cases concerned applications 
for annulment against Binding Decisions adopted by 
the EDPB.4 

In the context of these proceedings, the Secretariat 
of  the  EDPB  worked  closely  with  external  lawyers 
throughout the different stages of the proceedings, 
including in relation to defining the EDPB’s defence 
strategy  and  drafting  procedural  documents.5  
 

In  addition,  the  EDPB  was  also  involved  as  an 
intervener in one case,6 in support of the EDPS.

In  accordance  with  Art.  32(2)  of  the  EDPB 
Rules of Procedure (RoP), the EDPB Secretariat 
prepares  the  answers  to  access  requests  of 
EDPB  documents  which  are  handled  and 
signed  by  the  Chair  or  one  of  the  Deputy 
Chairs. In 2023, the EDPB Secretariat received 
39 public access requests for documents held 
by the EDPB. Confirmatory applications were 
received  in  two  cases.  A  single  complaint 
regarding  an  EDPB  confirmatory  decision 
for  a  request  for  access  to  documents  was 
brought  to  the  attention  of  the  European 
Ombudsman  in  2023.  This  complaint  was 
about  the  EDPB’s  refusal  to  grant  access  to 
an  assessment  of  the  use  of  X  (Twitter)  by 
DPAs  and  the  EDPB,  including  one  annex.   
Following  a  reassessment  of  the  two 
documents  at  issue,  the  EDPB  decided 
to  fully  disclose  them  to  the  applicant. 
With 
the  complaint  being  settled, 
the  Ombudsman  closed  this  inquiry  and 
commended the EDPB for its decision in this 
case.

 

1  T-183/23  Ballmann  v  European  Data  Protection  Board;  Joined  cases  T-70/23,  T-84/23,  111/23  Data  Protection  Commission  
v European Data Protection Board; T-128/23 Meta Platforms Ireland v European Data Protection Board; T-129/23 Meta Platforms Ireland v Euro-
pean Data Protection Board; T-153/23 WhatsApp Ireland v EDPB; T-325/23 Meta Platforms Ireland v European Data Protection Board; T-1030/23 
Tiktok Technology v European Data Protection Board and C-97/23 P WhatsApp Ireland v EDPB.

2   Case T-682/22 Meta Platforms Ireland v EDPB.

3   Case T-709/21 WhatsApp Ireland v European Data Protection Board. In 2023, the EDPB dealt with the procedural aftermath of the Order of 
the General Court of 7/12/2023. 

4    In particular, 10 cases concerned actions for annulment against EDPB’s binding decisions, one case concerned access to the file and another 
case concerned an appeal lodged by a controller before the ECJ following a General Court order that dismissed that controller’s request for 
annulment of an EDPB binding decision.

5    For instance, the EDPB defence for 3 cases, the rejoinder for 2 cases and the application under Article 130(1) of the Rules of Procedure of 
the General Court in 4 cases.

6    C-413/23 P EDPS v SRB.

10

EDPB Annual Report 2023In  the  context  of  the  cooperation  between 
DPAs,  the  EDPB  Secretariat  provides 
continuous support to DPAs with IT solutions 
that facilitate their communication. The EDPB 
Secretariat  also  leads  the  IT  Users  Expert 
Subgroup, which coordinates the information 
systems  used  by  the  EDPB,  including  the 
Internal Market Information (IMI) system. The 
Secretariat also replies to requests for support 
from the DPAs.

The  IMI  system  is  essential  for  the  GDPR 
cooperation  among  EDPB  members.  This 
year, the system facilitated more than 4,580 
procedures. There were 419 support requests 
related  to  the  use  of  IMI.  Overall,  the  EDPB 
Secretariat handled a total of 3,418 support 
enquiries across all EDPB IT systems.

In 2023, IMI celebrated its 15th anniversary. 
Over time, the system has proven its value and 
over again for cooperation in different policy 
fields in the EU. 

2023 -  a new version of IMI 

In  2018,  the  EDPB  opted  for  IMI  as  an 
information exchange system between DPAs, 
customising  and  adapting  it  to  their  needs 
in the record time of six months. 19 different 
procedures were implemented enabling the 
DPAs to enforce the GDPR. 

Since  then,  IMI  has  proven  to  be  a  robust, 
flexible and efficient platform that is essential 
for the GDPR cooperation and enforcement. 

With the help of the European Commission,  
the  EDPB  continuously 
IMI, 
enhancing its features to accommodate the 
new needs of the DPAs. 

improves 

11

To enhance the user experience and streamline 
the workflows, in 2023 an upgraded version 
of  the  IMI  user  interface  was  introduced, 
featuring innovative functionalities, such as 
a  more  intuitive  dashboard  allowing  easier 
access and monitoring of ongoing procedures, 
an improved search functionality, streamlined 
navigation  and  improved  layout  for  easier 
access to key features, and a refreshed visual 
design. In addition, tutorial videos were made 
by the EDPB Secretariat to help DPAs master 
the new IMI features. 

A pilot solution was also developed with the 
help of the European Commission as system 
provider to interconnect DPAs’ national case  
management systems with IMI. This integration  
will  facilitate  the  automatic  transmission  of 
cases  between  national  systems  and  IMI, 
reducing the need for manual data entry and 
facilitating the tracking of procedures in IMI 
and  national  case  management  systems.   
In 2023, the feature was successfully tested in 
France and Spain and it will be further rolled 
out across the EU upon request. 

EDPB  HUB,  EDPB’s  primary  platform  for 
information  sharing  with  their  members, 
saw significant activity. Over 7,503 different 
content  types  were  created.  This  includes 
1,496 new pages, 4,787 documents, and 1,014 
exchanges. The platform is widely used across 
various authorities, supporting a substantial 
user base of over 1,400 members. 

The  EDPB  Secretariat  also  ensured  the 
continued  usability  of  the  EDPB  website. 
The  website  was  visited  275,582  times  in 
2023  and  the  most  clicked  topics  were 
Guidelines, Recommendations, Best Practices, 
Our  members,  News,  Our  documents  and 
Approved Binding Corporate Rules.

EDPB Annual Report 2023An  important  awareness  raising  action  in  2023 
for  which  the  EDPB  Secretariat  took  the  lead 
was  the  publication  of  the  Data  Protection 
Guide  for  Small  Business.  The  Guide  is  a  key 
initiative 
in  the  EDPB’s  2021-2023  Strategy.  
It  aims  to  provide  practical  information  to  SMEs 
about  GDPR  compliance  in  an  accessible  and 
easily  understandable 
language.  The  main 
goal  of  the  guide  is  to  help  raise  awareness  
of  the  GDPR  among  SMEs  and  to  facilitate  
compliance.  The  development  of 
tools 
providing  practical,  easily  understandable  
and  accessible  data  protection  guidance  is  key  to 
reaching a non-expert audience and promoting data 
protection in practice.

“Rolling out the actions of national 
authorities on a European scale increases 

the impact of awareness-raising 

initiatives. Thanks to the Data Protection 

Guide for Small Business,  businesses 
throughout Europe can find answers to 
their practical questions and ready-to-use 

tools to help them.”

Cédrine Morlière, Head of the Belgian DPA

The EDPB processes personal data according to 
the rules laid down in Regulation 2018/1725 on 
the processing of personal data by the Union 
institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. In 
accordance  with  Art.  43  of  this  Regulation, 
the EDPB has its own DPO team, which is part 
of  the  EDPB  Secretariat.  In 2023,  the  EDPB 
received five data subject requests made on 
the basis of rights enshrined in Art. 17 to Art. 24 
of Regulation 2018/1725. The EDPB Secretariat 
also  provided assistance  with  replying  to 
individual requests for information involving 
the  processing  of  their  personal  data,  and 
supported  in  handling  two  data  breaches 
under Arts. 34 and 35 of Regulation 2018/1725 
which required a notification to the EDPS.

1.2.  RE-ORGANISING THE SECRETARIAT IN 

2023

In  the  past  year,  the  volume  and  complexity  of 
the  EDPB’s  tasks  substantially  increased  and,  
in parallel, the role of the EDPB Secretariat evolved.  
Following  the  changes  made  in  early  2023,  
the EDPB Secretariat is now composed of five sectors.  
This  structural  improvement  was  necessary  to  
address  the  growing  workload  of  the  EDPB 
Secretariat.

The  EDPB  Secretariat  consists  of  two  legal  sectors 
working  on  drafting  binding  decisions,  litigation 
and  providing  analytical  support  to  the  EDPB,  as 
well as an information and communications sector,  
which  plays  an  essential  role  in  presenting  the 
EDPB’s  work  to  the  outside  world  or  preparing  
awareness-raising tools, such as the EDPB Guide for 
Small Business. In addition, the administrative sector 
and the IT sector provide logistical and IT support to 
the EDPB. 

12

EDPB Annual Report 2023EDPB SECRETARIAT    |     ORGANISATIONAL CHART

UNIT

Head of EDPB 
Secretariat
Isabelle 
VEREECKEN

Deputy Head of 
EDPB Secretariat

Gwendal 
LE GRAND

HEADS OF SECTOR

Myriam 
GUFFLET

Litigation and
international

aﬀairs

Carolina 
FOGLIA

Legal aﬀairs- 
cooperation and

enforcement

Greet
GYSEN

Information and
communication

Eﬀrosyni 
PANAGOU

Administrative

matters

Ahmed 
IMMOUN
IT matters

13

EDPB Annual Report 20232. EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION 
BOARD - ACTIVITIES IN 2023

2.1.  BINDING DECISIONS

Enforcing  the  GDPR  and  issuing  fines  is  the 
competence of DPAs. They do so at national level 
and in cross-border cases, for which they cooperate, 
through  the  One-Stop-Shop 
(OSS)  system.  
In  instances  where  DPAs  are  unable  to  reach  a 
consensus, the EDPB adopts a decision pursuant to 
Art. 65 GDPR. The decision is binding towards the  

lead DPA, thereby compelling it to adjust its decision 
accordingly.  Approximately  1%  of  OSS  decisions 
have  been  going  through  the  dispute  resolution 
mechanism.  These  decisions  often  concern  major 
players and the processing of data of all European 
individuals.  Since  2018,  LSAs  handed  out  over 
€2.5  billion  in  fines  after  a  binding  decision.  
This represents around 55% of the total amount of 
fines issued since 2018. 

See  pages  16  -  19  for  the  full 
summary  of  binding  decisions 
adopted in 2023.

14

EDPB Annual Report 2023See pages 16 - 19 for the full summary of binding decisions adopted in 2023.

STEP 1
An individual lodges a complaint or
a DPA opens a procedure at its own
initiative or at the request 
of another CSA 

STEP 3
LSA prepares draft 
decision and shares with CSAs

CSAs have no objections 

LSA follows objections 
and submits revised 
draft decision to CSAs   

C

S

STEP 2
LSA carries out inquiry 
and shares relevant 
information with CSAs

LSA adopts decision 
on the basis of EDPB decision 
LSA sends decision 
to controller-processor 
The CSA with which 
the complaint has been 
lodged informs the complainant 
of the decision

&

A

 r
e
l
e

s h

a

v

v

a

e r

e

n

t o

a

s

b
je
c

o

n

tio

e
d 

n

s

STEP 4
CSAs provide opinion 
on the draft decision; 
LSA takes due account 
of their views

LSA does not concur  with objections

CSAs still have 
objections

Consistency 
Mechanism 

kicks in 

Case is referred to EDPB 
for a binding decision 

LSA

CSAs

EDPB

Lead Supervisory 
Authority 

Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities 

European Data 
Protection Board 

LSA adopts decision 
LSA sends decision 
to controller-processor 
The CSA with which 
the complaint has been 
lodged informs 
the complainant 
of the decision 

CSAs have no 
further objections

In exceptional cases, urgent binding decisions may be adopted by the EDPB in line with Art. 66 GDPR. This urgency 
procedure has been put in place to ensure consistency in the enforcement of the GDPR and may only be triggered 
by authorities in situations where an urgent need to act is determined.

URGENCY PROCEDURE

(Art. 66 (1) and (2) Procedure)

A DPA can take urgent measures on its 
territory to protect data subjects for a 
maximum of 3 months.

The EDPB adopts an urgent binding 
decision or opinion. 

STEP 1

STEP 2

2 weeks as of 
completeness 

file

STEP 3

The DPA considers that final 
measures are necessary and 
requests an urgent opinion or 
urgent binding decision from 
the EDPB. 

DPA

Data Protection Authority

The EDPB is of the opinion 
that final measures are 
not necessary.

The EDPB is of the opinion 
that final measures are 
required and instructs the 
relevant DPA to adopt 
such measures.

15

EDPB Annual Report 2023Binding decisions are drafted by the EDPB Secretariat, 
in close collaboration with the Members, before they 
are adopted by the Board. They often set a precedent 
by settling disputes on key legal issues and, at the 
same time, fines adopted following an EDPB binding 
decision are usually very significant. In the past years, 
the EDPB has transitioned from a body providing 
interpretations of legal texts to a decision-making 
authority weighing in on concrete cases.

To  date,  the  EDPB  has  issued  eleven  binding 
decisions,  with  two  of  them  being  Art.  66  urgent 
binding decisions. In 2023, the EDPB adopted two 
Art.  65  binding  decisions  and  one  Art.  66  urgent 
binding decision, addressing a range of issues from 
privacy by design and by default, the principle of 
fairness, the processing of children’s personal data, 
international transfers of data and the legal bases for 
behavioural advertising.

In its binding decision, the EDPB instructed the 
Irish  DPA  to  amend  its  draft  decision  and  to 
impose a fine on Meta IE. Given the seriousness 
of the infringement, the EDPB found that the 
starting point for calculation of the fine should 
be between 20% and 100% of the applicable 
legal maximum. The EDPB also instructed the 
Irish DPA to order Meta IE to bring processing  
operations  into  compliance  with  Chapter  V 
GDPR,  by  ceasing  the  unlawful  processing, 
including storage, in the U.S. of personal data 
of European users transferred in violation of the 
GDPR, within 6 months after notification of the 
Irish DPA’s final decision.

The Irish DPA’s final decision incorporates the 
legal  assessment  expressed  by  the  EDPB  in 
its binding decision, adopted on the basis of 
Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR after the Irish DPA, as lead 
supervisory  authority  (LSA),  had  triggered 
a  dispute  resolution  procedure  concerning 
the  objections  raised  by  several  concerned 
supervisory authorities (CSAs).  Among others, 
CSAs  issued  objections  aiming  to  include  an 
administrative fine and/or an additional order 
to bring processing into compliance.

Binding  Decision  1/2023  on  the  dispute 
submitted by the Irish SA on data transfers 
by  Meta  Platforms  Ireland  Limited  for  its 
Facebook service (Art. 65 GDPR)

In  April  2023,  the  EDPB  settled  a  dispute 
regarding  a  fine  against  Meta  Platforms 
Ireland Limited (Meta IE), and an order to bring 
processing  into  compliance,  in  its  Binding 
Decision 1/2023.

Following  the  EDPB’s binding  decision, 
Meta  IE  was  issued  a  €1.2  billion  fine  by  the 
Irish  Data  Protection  Authority  (Irish  DPA).   
This fine was imposed for Meta’s transfers of 
personal data to the U.S. on the basis of standard 
contractual clauses (SCCs) since 16 July 2020.  
Furthermore, Meta IE was ordered to bring its 
data transfers into compliance with the GDPR.

Andrea  Jelinek,  the  EDPB  Chair  at  the 
time,  said:  “The  EDPB  found  that  Meta  IE’s 
infringement is very serious since it concerns 
transfers  that  are  systematic,  repetitive  and 
continuous.  Facebook  has  millions  of  users   
in  Europe,  so  the  volume  of  personal  data 
transferred  is  massive.  The  unprecedented 
fine  is  a  strong  signal  to  organisations  that 
serious 
infringements  have  far-reaching 
consequences.”

16

EDPB Annual Report 2023the 
Binding  Decision  2/2023  on 
dispute  submitted  by  the 
Irish  SA 
regarding  TikTok  Technology  Limited   
(Art. 65 GDPR)

In August 2023, the EDPB resolved a dispute 
on the draft decision of the Irish DPA on the 
processing of personal data of users between 
the ages of 13 and 17 by TikTok Technology  
Limited  (TikTok  IE).  In  its Binding  Decision   
2/2023,  the  EDPB  analysed  the  design 
practices  implemented  by  TikTok  in  the 
context of two pop-up notifications that were 
shown to children aged 13-17: the Registration 
Pop-Up  and  the  Video  Posting  Pop-Up.  The 
analysis  found  that  both  pop-ups  failed  to 
present options to the user in an objective and 
neutral way.

Following  the  EDPB’s binding  decision, the 
Irish  DPA  issued  a  final  decision,  finding,   
in  particular,  that  TikTok  IE  infringed  the 
GDPR’s principle of fairness when processing 
personal data relating to children between the  
 

“Data protection authorities within 
the EDPB can effectively take action 

against big tech. The fine of 345 million 
euro imposed on TikTok led to better 

protection of all European children using 

this platform.”

Aleid Wolfsen, Chair of the Dutch DPA 

and EDPB Deputy Chair

17

ages of 13 and 17 and imposed a reprimand, 
a compliance order and a fine of €345 million.

Anu  Talus,  EDPB  Chair,  said:  “Social  media 
companies  have  a  responsibility  to  avoid 
presenting choices to users, especially children, 
in  an  unfair  manner –  particularly  if  that 
presentation can nudge people into making 
decisions  that  violate  their  privacy  interests. 
Options related to privacy should be provided 
in an objective and neutral way, avoiding any 
kind of deceptive or manipulative language or 
design. With this decision, the EDPB once again 
makes it clear that digital players have to be 
extra careful and take all necessary measures to 
safeguard children’s data protection rights.”

In  the  Registration  Pop-Up,  children  were   
nudged to opt for a public account by choosing  
the  right-side  button  labelled  “Skip”,  which 
would  then  have  a  cascading  effect  on  the 
child’s privacy on the platform, for example by 
making comments on video content created by 
children accessible.

In  the  Video  Posting  Pop-Up,  children  were 
nudged  to  click  on  “Post  Now”,  presented 
in  a  bold,  darker  text  located  on  the  right 
side,  rather  than  on  the  lighter  button  to 
“cancel”.  Users  who  wished  to  make  their 
post  private  first  needed  to  select  “cancel” 
and  then  look  for  the  privacy  settings  in 
order  to  switch  to  a  “private  account”.   
Therefore, users were encouraged to opt for 
public-by-default  settings,  with  TikTok  IE 
making it harder for them to make choices that 
favoured the protection of their personal data. 
Furthermore, the consequences of the different 
options were unclear, particularly to child users. 
The  EDPB  confirmed  that  controllers  should 

EDPB Annual Report 2023not make it difficult for data subjects to adjust 
their privacy settings and limit the processing.

The  EDPB  also  found  that,  as  a  result  of  the 
practices  in  question,  TikTok  IE  infringed 
the  principle  of  fairness  under  the  GDPR. 
Consequently,  the  EDPB 
instructed  the 
Irish  DPA  to  include,  in  its  final  decision,   
a finding of this additional infringement and 
to order TikTok IE to comply with the GDPR by 
eliminating such design practices.

The  EDPB  also  assessed  whether  age 
verification  measures 
implemented  by 
TikTok  IE  between  31  July  and  31  December 
2020  complied  with  the  requirements  of 
data  protection  by  design  (Art.  25(1)  GDPR). 
 The EDPB expressed serious doubts regarding 
the  effectiveness  of  the  age  verification 
measures put in place by TikTok IE during this 
period,  particularly  taking  into  account  the 
severity  of  the  risks  for  the  high  number  of 
children  affected.  Among  others,  the  EDPB 
found  that  the  age  gate  deployed  by  TikTok 
IE to prevent child users under the age of 13 
from  accessing  the  platform  could  be  easily 
circumvented and that the measures applied 
after users gained access to TikTok IE were not 
applied in a sufficiently systematic manner.

The Irish DPA’s final decision also includes legal 
assessment that was not subject to objections 
by CSAs, such as the finding that the public by 
default settings were contrary to the principles 
of data protection by design and default, of data 
minimisation and transparency.

Urgent Binding Decision 01/2023 requested 
by the Norwegian SA for the ordering of final 
measures regarding Meta Platforms Ireland 
Ltd (Art. 66(2) GDPR)

 

Following  the  EDPB’s  urgent  Binding 
Decision  1/2023  of  27  October  2023, 
the  Irish  DPA  adopted  its  final  decision  on 
10 November 2023, imposing a ban on Meta 
IE  for  the  processing  of  personal  data  for 
behavioural  advertising  purposes  on  the 
basis  of  contract  and  legitimate  interest.  
The EDPB urgent binding decision followed a 
request from the Norwegian Data Protection 
Authority  (NO  DPA)  to  order  final  measures 
which would have effect in the entire European 
Economic Area (EEA).

EDPB  Chair  Anu  Talus  said:  “After  careful 
consideration,  the  EDPB  considered 
it 
necessary  to  instruct  the  IE  DPA  to  impose   
an  EEA-wide  processing  ban,  addressed   
to  Meta  IE.  Already  in  December  2022, 
the  EDPB  Binding  Decisions  clarified  that 
contract  is  not  a  suitable  legal  basis  for 
the  processing  of  personal  data  carried 
out  by  Meta  for  behavioural  advertising.   
In  addition,  Meta  has  been  found  by  the  IE 
DPA  to  not  have  demonstrated  compliance 
with the orders imposed at the end of last year.  
This has led to the use of the Art. 66 urgency 
procedure  -  a  derogation  from  the  usual 
cooperation procedure which can only be used 
in exceptional circumstances.”

Initially, on 14 July 2023, the NO DPA adopted 
an order imposing a temporary ban under Art. 
66(1) GDPR on Meta IE and Facebook Norway AS 
(“Facebook Norway”) regarding the processing 
of personal data of Norwegian data subjects for  
 

18

EDPB Annual Report 2023behavioural  advertising  relying  on  the  legal 
bases  of  contract  or  legitimate  interest.  This 
ban was limited in time and geographic scope:  
it was valid for three months and only applicable 
in Norway. On 26 September 2023, the NO DPA 
submitted a request to the EDPB for an urgent 
binding decision to order the adoption of final 
measures applicable to users across the EEA. 

that 

Following  its  analysis  of  the  file,  the  EDPB 
concluded 
there  were ongoing 
infringements  of  the  GDPR and  there  was 
an urgent need to act in light of the risks for 
the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. 
In particular, based on the evidence provided, 
the  EDPB  found  that  there  was  an ongoing 
infringement of Art. 6(1) GDPR because of the 
inappropriate use of the legal bases of contract 
and  legitimate  interest  for  the  processing 
of personal data collected by Meta IE for the 
purpose of behavioural advertising.  

In addition, the EDPB concluded that there was 
also an ongoing infringement of Meta IE’s duty 
to comply with decisions by DPAs, most notably 
the Irish DPAs final decisions of December 2022.  

Regarding  the  existence  of  urgency,  the 
EDPB concluded that the regular cooperation 
mechanisms could not be applied in their usual 
manner and that the urgent need to order final 
measures was clear in light of the risks of serious 
and irreparable harm caused to data subjects 
without the adoption of final measures. 

Furthermore, the EDPB found that the Irish DPA 
failed to address a request for mutual assistance 
from the NO DPA within the timeframe set out 
in the GDPR. The presumption of urgency set by 
Art.  61(8)  GDPR  thus  applied,  which  further 

 
corroborated  the  need  to  derogate  from 
the  regular  cooperation  and  consistency 
mechanisms. 

Consequently,  the  EDPB  decided  that  final 
measures needed to be adopted by the Irish 
DPA. It considered appropriate, proportionate 
and  necessary  to  instruct  the  Irish  DPA  to 
impose a ban on processing addressed to Meta 
IE for processing of personal data collected on 
Meta IE’s products for behavioural advertising 
purposes on the basis of contract and legitimate 
interest.  

This  urgent  binding  decision  was  addressed 
to  the  Irish  DPA,  the  NO  DPA  and  the  other 
concerned DPAs, and the Irish DPA adopted its 
final decision on 10 November 2023.

2.2.  CONSISTENCY OPINIONS
The Board issues consistency opinions to contribute 
to the consistent application of the GDPR. DPAs may 
seek  consistency  opinions  from  the  EDPB  under  
Art. 64(1) GDPR when they intend to adopt certain 
types of measures. Following a consistency opinion, 
DPAs adopt their national decisions.

The EDPB can adopt six different types of opinions 
on  DPAs’  draft  decisions:  (a)  when  they  aim  to 
adopt a list of processing operations subject to the 
requirement for a data protection impact assessment,  
(b)  concerning  a  draft  code  of  conduct,  (c)  when 
they  aim  to  approve  the  requirements  for  the 
accreditation of a certification body or the criteria 
for  certification,  (d)  when  they  aim  to  determine 
standard contractual clauses, (e) when they aim to 
authorise standard contractual clauses and (f) when 
they aim to approve Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs). 
In 2023, the EDPB adopted a total of 37 consistency 
opinions (Art. 64(1)). See Section 4.4. for the complete 
list of opinions adopted in 2023.

19

EDPB Annual Report 2023Since 2018, the EDPB has adopted 182 consistency 
opinions in total. This way, starting from a theoretical 
description of new compliance tools introduced in 
the GDPR, the EDPB has built a framework for the 

new compliance tools, such as codes of conduct and 
certification mechanisms, to become operational in a 
consistent manner.

Consistency opinions in 2023

Opinions on DPAs’ approval of accreditation 

requirements for a code of conduct 

monitoring body

Opinions on certi(cid:31)cation criteria

Opinions on draft requirements for the 
accreditation of a certi(cid:31)cation body

4

1

5

The  EDPB  has  made  significant  progress  in  the 
area  of  certification  as  a  compliance  tool  (Art.  42 
GDPR) and as a tool for transfers (Art. 46(2)(f) GDPR). 
In addition to the final version of Guidelines 07/2022 
on certification as a tool for transfers and the EDPB 
Document  on  the  procedure  for  the  adoption 
of  the  EDPB  opinions  regarding  national  criteria 
for  certification  and  European  Data  Protection 
Seals,  both  adopted  at  the  beginning  of  2023, 
 EDPB members also held two certification workshops 
in  Spring  and  Autumn  2023.  The  workshops  took 
place  in  Spain  and  Luxembourg,  respectively, 
and  the  aim  was  to  find  synergies,  strengthen 
cooperation  among  EDPB  members  on  this  topic 

20

27

Opinions on draft decisions regarding 

Binding Corporate Rules

and address the main challenges and opportunities 
that these tools present. During the first day of the 
Autumn  workshop,  certification  stakeholders  had 
the  opportunity  to  provide  feedback  and  share 
their experiences. The EDPB continues to work on 
the topic of certification, including certification as a 
tool for transfers, which confirms its commitment, 
as reflected in the 2021-2023 Strategy, to advance 
harmonisation and facilitate the implementation of 
compliance mechanisms.

EDPB Annual Report 20232.3.  GENERAL GUIDANCE

One of the EDPB’s core competences is to clarify the 
GDPR by issuing guidance. During the initial phase of 
the GDPR’s implementation, the EDPB established a 
well-defined  and  comprehensive  repository  of 
guidelines and recommendations. This ensures that 
DPAs apply data protection laws consistently and it 
further  strengthens  stakeholder  compliance.  
The EDPB continues to build and expand its guidance 
and  makes  a  consistent  effort  to  incorporate 
stakeholder  input,  which  is  collected  via  public 
consultation.

“One of the things we have worked 
on together at European level is a more 
targeted guidance effort. We explain the 

rules shorter, clearer and more  

user-oriented.”

Cristina Angela Gulisano, 
Director of the Danish DPA

In 2023, the EDPB adopted two new guidelines, as well 
as nine guidelines and one set of recommendations 
following public consultation.

See Section 4.2. for the complete list of guidelines and 
recommendations.

Based on the interest shown by stakeholders during 
the public consultation phase in  Guidelines 03/2022 
and  05/2022,  the  following  sub-chapters  will 
elaborate on each one respectively.

2.3.1. 

Guidelines 03/2022 on deceptive design 
patterns in social media platform interfaces: 
how to recognise and avoid them

The EDPB adopted Guidelines 03/2022 after public 
consultation, on 14 February 2023. Their aim is to 
lay down practical recommendations and guidance 
to  social  media  providers  as  controllers  of  social 
media, designers and users of social media platforms,  
on  how  to  assess  and  avoid  deceptive  design 
patterns in social media interfaces. The existence of 
such patterns often lead users to make unintended, 
unwilling,  and/or  potentially  harmful  decisions 
concerning the processing of their personal data.

The  guidelines  provide  a  non-exhaustive  list  of 
deceptive design patterns during the life cycle of 
a social media account (i.e. from the sign-up stage 
to the closing of a social media account) as well as 
elaborate on the best practices at the end of each 
use case. The types of dark patterns addressed in the 
guidelines are the following:

(a) overloading: when users are confronted with a 
large quantity of information, options or possibilities 
in  order  to  be  prompted  to  share  more  data  or 
unintentionally allow the processing of their personal 
data against their expectations. 

(b)  skipping:  when  the  design  of  the  interface  or 
users’ journey is made in a way that users forget or 
do not think about all or some of the data protection 
aspects.  

(c) stirring: when the choice of the users is affected by 
appealing to their emotions or using visual nudges.   

(d)  obstructing:  when  the  users  are  hindered  or 
blocked in their process of becoming informed or 
managing their data by making such action hard or 
impossible to achieve.  

21

EDPB Annual Report 2023(e)  fickle:  when  the  design  of  the  interface  is  not 
consistent and clear, making it hard for the users to 
navigate the different data protection control tools 
and to understand the purpose of the processing.   

(f) left in the dark: when the interface is designed  to 
hide information or data protection controls or to 
leave users unsure of how their data are processed 
and  what  kind  of  control  they  might  have  over  it 
regarding the exercise of their rights.

The  guidelines  provide  concrete  examples  on 
deceptive design patterns and on recommended best 
practices. For example, with respect to the deceptive 
design of “obstructing”, where users are not provided 
with any links to data protection information once 
they have started the sign-up process, users cannot 
find this information as none is provided anywhere 
in  the  sign-up  interface,  not  even  in  the  footer.  
To  avoid  this,  the  guidelines  provide  some  best 
practices, such as the use of shortcuts.

The  EDPB  recalls  the  obligations  of  social 
media  providers  under  GDPR  and  particularly 
recommends  the  use  of  interdisciplinary  teams, 
including  designers,  data  protection  officers  and  
decision-makers to ensure GDPR compliance on their 
platforms.

The recommendations set forth in the guidelines can 
be used from the early conception phase of a user 
interface to avoid the implementation of deceptive 
design  patterns,  as  well  as  on  an  existing  service 
to  evaluate  the  interface’s  compliance  with  GDPR 
requirements.

2.3.2. 

Guidelines 05/2022 on the use of facial 
recognition technology in the area of law 
enforcement

Law enforcement authorities (LEAs) are showing an 
increasing interest in the use of facial recognition 

technology  (FRT).  This  technology  often  relies  on 
artificial intelligence (AI) or machine learning (ML) 
and can be used, for example, to authenticate or to 
identify  a person on police watch lists or to monitor 
the movements of an individual in public space.

FRT relies on the processing of biometric data, which 
benefit from special protection in the data protection 
legal  framework.  Indeed,  biometric  data  are 
permanently and irrevocably linked to an individual’s 
identity.  The  sheer  size  of  processing  of  personal 
data, and in particular biometric data, is a further key 
element of FRT, as the processing of personal data 
constitutes  an  interference  with  the  fundamental 
right to protection of personal data according to Art. 8 
of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European 
Union (the Charter).

The  use  of  FRT  by  LEAs  will  have  –  and  to  some 
extent already does have – significant implications 
on individuals and on groups of people, including 
minorities.  These  implications  will  also  have 
considerable  effects  on  the  way  we  live  together 
and on our social and democratic political stability.  
The  application  of  FRT  is  considerably  prone  to 
interfere with fundamental rights beyond the right to 
protection of personal data.

“Technology took a giant leap over the 
past decades and regulators are faced with 
new, increasingly complex technological 

and social scenarios.”

Pasquale Stanzione, 

 President of the Italian DPA

22

EDPB Annual Report 20232.4.1. 

Opinion 5/2023 on the European Commission 
Draft Implementing Decision on the adequate 
protection of personal data under the EU-US 
Data Privacy Framework

On  28  February  2023,  the  EDPB  adopted  Opinion 
5/2023  in  relation  to  the  Commission’s  draft 
adequacy  decision  regarding  the  framework 
for  transatlantic  exchanges  of  personal  data, 
referred to as “the EU-US Data Privacy Framework” 
(DPF).  With  its  Opinion,  the  EDPB  provides  input 
to  the  Commission  regarding  the  adequacy  of  
the  level  of  protection  afforded  to  individuals 
whose  personal  data  is  transferred  to  the  U.S. 
through  the  Draft  Decision,  which  considers  both 
the commercial aspects and U.S. public authorities’ 
access and use of data. The key component of the 
DPF is the EU-US Data Privacy Framework Principles,  
which  were  issued  by  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Commerce.

The EDPB welcomes substantial improvements such 
as the introduction of requirements embodying the 
principles of necessity and proportionality for U.S. 
intelligence gathering of data and the new redress 
mechanism for EU data subjects. At the same time,  
it expresses concerns and requested clarifications on 
several points. These related, in particular, to certain 
rights of data subjects, onward transfers, the scope 
of exemptions, temporary bulk collection of data and 
the practical functioning of the redress mechanism. 
The EDPB notes it would welcome that not only the 
entry into force but also the adoption of the decision 
are  conditional  upon  the  adoption  of  updated 
policies  and  procedures  to  implement  Executive 
Order (EO) 14086 by all U.S. intelligence agencies. 
The  EDPB  recommends  the  Commission  to  assess 
these updated policies and procedures and share its 
assessment with the EDPB.

Regarding  commercial  aspects, 
the  EDPB 
welcomes  a  number  of  updates  made  to  the  DPF 

Principles. Notably, a number of Principles remain 
essentially  the  same  as  under  the  Privacy  Shield.  
Thereby, the EDPB underlines some of its previous 
concerns, for example, relating to some exemptions 
to the right of access, the absence of key definitions, 
the lack of clarity about the application of the DPF 
Principles  to  processors,  the  broad  exemption  to 
the right of access for publicly available information, 
and  the  lack  of  specific  rules  on  automated  
decision-making  and  profiling.  The  EDPB  further 
reiterates  that  the  level  of  protection  must  not 
be  undermined  by  onward  transfers.  Therefore, 
it  invites  the  Commission  to  clarify  that  the 
safeguards 
initial  recipient 
on  the  importer  in  the  third  country  must  be 
effective  in  light  of  third  country  legislation,  
prior  to  an  onward  transfer.  Moreover,  the  EDPB 
asks  the  Commission  to  clarify  the  scope  of  the 
exemptions regarding the duty to adhere to the DPF 
Principles and stressed the importance of effective 
oversight and enforcement of the DPF. These aspects 
will be closely monitored by the EDPB, together with 
the effectiveness of the redress avenues provided 
to  EU  data  subjects  whose  data  are  processed  in 
violation of the DPF.

imposed  by  the 

regard 

Regarding government  access  to  data  transferred 
to  the  U.S.,  the  EDPB  acknowledges  the  
significant  improvements  brought  by  EO 14086. 
The  EO  introduces  the  concepts  of necessity 
and  proportionality with 
to  U.S.  
intelligence-gathering of data (signals intelligence).  
Furthermore,  the  new  redress  mechanism  creates 
rights for EU individuals and is subject to the review 
by  the  Privacy  and  Civil  Liberties  Oversight  Board 
(PCLOB). The EO also enshrines more safeguards to 
ensure  the  independence  of  the  Data  Protection 
Review  Court  (DPRC),  compared  to  the  previous 
Ombudsperson  mechanism,  and 
introduces 
more  effective  powers  to  remedy  violations, 
including  additional  safeguards  for  data  subjects. 

24

EDPB Annual Report 2023The  EDPB  highlights  that  close  monitoring  is 
needed  concerning  the  practical  application  of 
the  newly  introduced  principles  of  necessity  and 
proportionality.  Further  clarity  is  also  necessary 
regarding temporary bulk collection and the further 
retention and dissemination of the data collected in 
bulk. The EDPB also expresses concerns about the 
lack of a requirement of prior authorisation by an 
independent authority for the collection of data in 
bulk under EO 12333, as well as the lack of systematic 
independent  review  ex  post  by  a  court  or  an 
equivalently independent body. With regard to prior 
independent  authorisation  of  surveillance  under 
Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Act (FISA), the EDPB regrets that the FISA Court does 
not review compliance with EO 14086 when certifying 
programmes authorising the targeting of non-U.S. 
persons,  even  though  the  intelligence  authorities 
carrying  out  the  programme  are  bound  by  it.  
Reports  of  the  PCLOB  on  how  the  safeguards  of 
the EO 14086 will be implemented and how these 
safeguards are applied when data is collected under 
Section 702 FISA and EO 12333 would be particularly 
useful. Regarding the redress mechanism, the EDPB 
recognises  the  additional  safeguards  provided, 
such  as  the  role  of  the  special  advocates  and  the 
review  of  the  redress  mechanism  by  the  PCLOB.  
At  the  same  time,  the  EDPB  is  concerned  about 
the  general  application  of  the  standard  reply  of 
the DPRC notifying the complainant that either no 
covered violations were identified or a determination 
requiring  appropriate  remediation  was  issued, 
especially given that this decision cannot be appealed.  
The EDPB therefore calls on the Commission to closely 
monitor the practical functioning of this mechanism.

Following  the  EDPB  opinion,  on  10  July  2023,  the 
European  Commission  adopted  its  Implementing 
Decision  C(2023)  4745  on  the  adequate  level  of 
protection of personal data under the EU-US Data 
Privacy  Framework  (DPF  Adequacy  Decision).7  
By doing so, the Commission decides that the U.S., 
for the purpose of Art. 45 GDPR, ensures an adequate 
level of protection for personal data transferred from 
the EU to organisations in the U.S. that are included 
in the “Data Privacy Framework List”, maintained and 
made publicly available by the U.S. Department of 
Commerce, in accordance with Section I.3 of Annex I 
of the DPF Adequacy Decision.

Moreover, the DPF Adequacy Decision entrusts the 
EDPB Secretariat as the single point of contact at EU 
level for routing complaints of individuals alleging 
unlawful access by US intelligence agencies from the 
EU/EEA DPAs to the Civil Liberties Protection Officer 
in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

On  September  2023,  the  EDPB  adopted  an 
Information note on data transfers under the GDPR to 
the United States after the adoption of the adequacy 
decision  on  10  July  2023.  This  info  note  provides 
some clarity on the implications of the DPF Adequacy 
Decision for data subjects in the EU and for entities 
transferring personal data from the EU to the U.S.  
It includes information on the practical consequences 
of the adoption of the DPF Adequacy Decision, both 
with regard to transfers to the U.S. under the DPF as 
well as transfers on the basis of other transfer tools. 
The  Info  note  also  provides  information  on  how 
data subjects in the EU can lodge complaints under 
the DPF, both for commercial aspects, as well as for 
national security purposes, as well as the date of the 
review of the adequacy decision.

7 Implementing Decision C(2023) 4745 of the European Commission, pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council (‘GDPR’) on the adequate level of protection of personal data under the EU-US Data Privacy Framework (‘the Adequacy Decision’) 
of 10 July 2023. 

25

EDPB Annual Report 20232.4.2. 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 01/2023 on the 
Proposal for a Regulation of the European 
Parliament and of the Council laying down 
additional procedural rules relating to the 
enforcement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

However,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  also  raise  some 
concerns and make a number of recommendations in 
order to ensure that the new Regulation will work in 
practice and that the DPAs will be able to investigate 
and deliver results for individuals more rapidly.

On 4 July 2023, the Commission published a Proposal 
for a Regulation laying down additional procedural 
rules relating to the enforcement of Regulation (EU) 
2016/679 (“the Proposal”). The EDPB and EDPS were 
formally consulted and issued Joint Opinion 01/2023 
on 19 September 2023.

In their Joint Opinion, the EDPB and EDPS welcome 
many  of  the  improvements  introduced  by  the 
Proposal,  especially  those  aimed  at  building 
consensus  between  the  DPAs  “by  design”  and 
at  ensuring  that  complaints  are  dealt  with  more 
effectively. In addition, the EDPB and EPDS positively 
note the Proposal’s objective to further harmonise the 
procedural rights of the parties under investigation 
and the complainants.

“We as supervisory authorities 

must work towards greater speed and 
commitment in case processing in order 
to effectively enforce the GDPR. We need 
to ensure that the fundamental rights of 

citizens are respected.”

Ulrich Kelber,

the German Federal Commissioner
for Data Protection and Freedom of 

Information

26

The Joint Opinion highlights, among others, that the 
EDPB’s current approach used for the preparation 
of EDPB binding decisions should not be changed. 
More  specifically,  the  requirement  to  provide  the 
parties under investigation and the complainant with 
a “statement of reasons” should be removed as it is 
not in line with the specific architecture of the OSS 
mechanism. The current practice whereby the parties 
provide their views prior to the matter being referred 
to  the  EDPB  on  all  elements  relied  upon  for  the 
decision should be kept as it allows the EDPB to duly 
take such views into account and adopt a decision 
within the legal deadlines.

issues”  with  the  CSAs  early 

Next,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  welcome  the  new 
requirement  for  the  LSA  to  share  a  “summary 
of  key 
in  the 
procedure  since  it  fosters  enhanced  cooperation.  
However, the content and meaning of the summary 
of key issues need to be further clarified. In addition,  
the  LSA’s  “preliminary  findings”  and  “preliminary 
view” must be shared with the CSAs for comment, 
before  they  are  shared  with  the  parties  under 
investigation  and  the  complainant,  and  the  LSA 
should  be  obliged  to  engage  with  the  CSAs  in  an 
attempt  to  find  a  consensus  at  the  earliest  stage 
possible.

Further, the EDPB and EDPS are concerned that the 
Proposal  unduly  redefines  and  restricts  the  CSAs’ 
ability  to  raise  relevant  and  reasoned  objections 
on a draft decision, including on the scope of the 
investigation,  and  recommend  removing  this 
restriction form the final text of the new Regulation.

EDPB Annual Report 2023Finally, the EDPB and EDPS take the view that the 
Proposal  unduly  restricts  the  application  of  the 
urgency procedure by limiting the territorial scope 
of  the  adopted  final  measures  to  the  territory 
of  the  Member  State  of  the  DPA  requesting 
the  urgent  opinion  or  decision.  Such  a  change 
would  lead  to  a  multiplication  of  requests  to  the 
EDPB  and  to  a  fragmentation  of  final  measures.  
Therefore, considering that the urgency procedure 
applies per se to cross-border processing and that its 
purpose is to address exceptional circumstances by 
providing harmonised solutions, the urgent decision 
or opinion should be addressed to all CSAs and be 
binding on them.

2.5.  STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION

2.5.1. 

Public consultation

Following  the  preliminary  adoption  of  guidelines, 
the  EDPB  organises  public  consultations  to  give 
stakeholders and citizens the opportunity to provide 
additional  input.  The  EDPB  considers  this  input 
before adopting the guidelines in their final version. 
Feedback on the value of the guidance and general 
work of the EDPB is appreciated as it provides useful 
insights into the needs of stakeholders. To increase 
transparency,  the  stakeholders’  contributions  to 
public consultations are published by the EDPB on 
its website. In 2023, two public consultations were 
launched on Guidelines 01/2023 and 02/2023.

2.5.2. 

Survey on practical application of adopted 
guidance

In  2023,  the  EDPB  conducted  the  sixth  annual 
survey to review its activities under Art. 71(2) GDPR.  
The  survey  focused  on  the  EDPB’s  work  and 
output  during  the  year,  particularly  its  guidelines,  
joint  opinions,  and  consultation  work.  It  was 
conducted with a view to determine the usefulness 
of  its  guidance  for  interpreting  GDPR  provisions 

and  identify  areas  in  which  better  support  could 
be  provided  to  organisations  and  individuals  in 
navigating the EU data protection framework.   

Among  the  key  stakeholders  surveyed  were 
academics in the field of data protection and privacy 
rights, business and legal professionals, and members 
of non-governmental organisations.  

In  general,  the  stakeholders  surveyed  noted  that 
the  EDPB’s  guidelines  offer  high  practical  value 
by  providing  context  to  complex  regulations  in 
a  comprehensive  manner.  Regarding  Guidelines 
2/23  on  Technical  Scope  of  Art.  5(3)  of  ePrivacy 
Directive, stakeholders highlighted their accessibility,  
alongside their useful and actionable information. 

Stakeholders highlighted their continual reliance on 
a wide range of guidelines and recommendations 
prior to 2023. Praise was notably given to Guidelines 
05/2022 on the use of facial recognition technology 
in  the  area  of  law  enforcement  as  well  as  those 
guidelines released by the EDPB which formed part 
of  the  Work  Programme  2023-2024.  This  includes 
Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights - Right of 
access, Guidelines 9/2022 on personal data breach 
notification  under  GDPR  and  Guidelines  8/2022 
on  identifying  a  controller  or  processor’s  lead 
supervisory authority. 

The  stakeholders  indicated  that  the  guidelines 
provide  well-illustrated  examples  that  are 
understandable and enable easy application, even 
where  the  stakeholders’  primary  field  is  not  data 
protection.  A  limited  number  of  stakeholders, 
however,  deemed  the  language  somewhat  too 
technical and specific for the larger public, despite 
the  accessibility  to  a  wide  range  of  professionals. 
At the same time, they found them well-written for 
their  main  audiences  –  professionals  in  the  data 
protection world. To further improve the guidelines, 

27

EDPB Annual Report 2023visualisations such as videos were recommended that 
can provide higher clarity on more technical sections 
of  the  guidelines.  Stakeholders  also  observe  that 
although the examples in the guidelines are useful 
and helpful, it would be useful if more examples were 
included. 

The  surveyed  stakeholders  confirmed  that  they 
consulted the EDPB’s guidelines and joint opinions 
on a near-daily basis for professional purposes in 2023 
and generally accessed them directly through the 
EDPB website or search engines. They indicated that 
they primarily relied on EDPB’s guidance to expand 
their knowledge and support legal analysis in areas 
where case law is still unclear. In these circumstances, 
the  EDPB  guidelines  are  a  valuable  resource  of 
information,  which  can  be  easily  referenced  and 
applied to professional contexts. 

As  a  whole,  the  EDPB’s  guidelines  were  noted 
as  being  easy  to  consult  by  the  stakeholders,  
with positive reference made to both the structure  
and  layout  of  the  document.  The  summaries 
presented within the guidelines were highlighted as 
an important and appreciated inclusion, although 
a suggestion was made to shorten these overviews 
where possible, to prioritise conciseness and avoid 
repetition.  Additionally,  adding  an  executive 
summary as a standard section of every document 
would  increase  the  ease  of  use  of  the  guidelines. 
Although the EDPB guidelines are frequently lengthy, 
stakeholders  highlighted  it  as  being  necessary 
to  promote  a  common  understanding  of  EU  data 
protection laws. Translations of the guidelines also 
prove  useful  for  their  interpretation  before  other 
intuitions and improve ease of use for stakeholders. 
Whilst  references  to  external  citations  are  not 
featured within the guidelines, a stakeholder noted 
that the inclusion of such academic work may provide 
additional context and resources for those who wish 
to gain more knowledge on the area at hand. 

With respect to the public consultations organised 
by  the  EDPB,  significant  praise  and  appreciation 
were noted for the frequency of these opportunities 
to contribute either as a team or as an individual. 
The  stakeholders  who  actively  engaged  in  public 
consultations  noted  that  their  involvement  was  a 
positive experience; this also extended to those who 
participated in the Pool of Experts consulted by the 
EDPB. 

In relation to the EDPB’s future work, stakeholders 
look  forward  to  the  continuation  of  the  EDPB’s 
interpretation of the GDPR and subsequent binding 
decisions,  and  express  their  eagerness  to  receive 
further helpful guidance, particularly on the topic of 
anonymisation.  

The  EDPB  highly  values  the  engagement  and 
input  from  its  stakeholders.  The  feedback  on  the 
significance  of  the  guidance  and  general  work  of 
the EDPB provides useful insights into the needs of 
stakeholders, that will be considered by the EDPB.

2.6.  REPRESENTING THE EDPB 

WORLDWIDE

One of the EDPB’s strategic objectives (EDPB Strategy 
2021-2023)  is  to  engage  with  the  international 
community to promote EU data protection as a global 
model and to ensure effective protection of personal 
data  beyond  EU  borders.  To  this  end,  the  EDPB 
launched the task force on international engagement 
and took part in international fora such as the Global 
Privacy  Assembly,  the  Spring  Conference  and  the 
G7’s DPA Roundtable.

In addition, in 2023, the EDPB Chairs took part as a 
keynote speaker in the IAPP Global Privacy Summit 
and  the  Privacy  Symposium  in  April;  the  Global 
Privacy Assembly in October and the IAPP Europe 
Data Protection Congress in November.  

28

EDPB Annual Report 2023In  total,  the  Chairmanship  of  the  EDPB  had  over 
28  speaking  engagements  in  2023.  As  former 
EDPB  Chair,  Dr  Andrea  Jelinek  had  8  speaking 
engagements,  before  being  replaced  by  Dr  Anu 
Talus  as  new  EDPB  Chair  in  May  2023,  who  spoke 
at 17 events in 2023. Deputy Chairs Irene Loizidou 
Nicolaidou, who was elected in May 2023, and Aleid 
Wolfsen, alongside outgoing Deputy Chair Ventsislav 
Karadjov,  took  part  in  3  speaking  engagements.  
These  speaking  engagements  included  press 
briefings, presentations, and panel discussions for 
a range of institutes, academic forums, and policy 
agencies. 

A total of 40 speaking events were attended both in 
person and remotely by the EDPB staff. These events 
were largely hosted by, amongst others, universities, 
law firms, companies and EU institutions.

“In these 5 years the EDPB has 
strengthened the bonds among its 

members. In the next 5 years, hopefully it 
will broaden its relations with authorities 

and stakeholders outside the EU, as its 

works have a global impact for improving 

people’s  lives worldwide.”  

Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou,                    

Cypriot Commissioner for Personal Data 
Protection and EDPB Deputy Chair

29

EDPB Annual Report 20233. ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION 
AND ENFORCEMENT BY DPAs

3.1.  EDPB ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT GDPR 
ENFORCEMENT AND COOPERATION 
AMONG DPAs 

Coordinated Enforcement Framework

The importance of consistent enforcement through 
cooperation  efforts  has  been  emphasised  by  the 
EDPB ever since the adoption of the GDPR. In 2020, 
the  EDPB  set  up  a  Coordinated  Enforcement 
Framework  (CEF),  with  the  aim  of  streamlining 
enforcement  and  cooperation  among  DPAs, 
in  line  with  its  2021-2023  Strategy.  The  CEF 
consists of annual joint actions on a specific topic,  
including  activities  such  as  joint  awareness 
campaigns,  information  gathering,  enforcement 
sweeps as well as joint investigations. These annual 
coordinated  enforcement  efforts  are  intended 
to  improve  compliance,  empower  individuals  to 
exercise their rights and increase awareness of data 
protection issues.

For  its  2023  Coordinated  Enforcement  Action,  
the  EDPB  selected “the  Designation  and  Position 
of  Data  Protection  Officers”.  Throughout  2023, 
25  DPAs  across  the  EEA  conducted  coordinated 
investigations.  Various  organisations,  as  well  as 
individual  DPOs  were  contacted  across  the  EEA, 
covering a wide range of sectors (both public and 
private  entities),  and  more  than  17,000  replies 
were  received  and  analysed.  Extensive  data  was 
collected offering valuable insights into the profile, 
position and work of DPOs 5 years after the entry 
into application of the GDPR.  The DPAs consolidated 
their findings into national reports, which were then 
combined  to  produce  an  EDPB  report,  listing  the 
obstacles currently faced by DPOs, along with a series 
of recommendations to further strengthen their role. 
Among others, the report encourages DPAs to carry 
out more awareness-raising activities, information 
and enforcement actions. The report also encourages 
organisations to ensure that DPOs have sufficient 

30

opportunities,  time  and  resources  to  refresh  their 
knowledge and learn about the latest developments.

Support Pool of Experts

The Support Pool of Experts (SPE) is a key initiative of 
the EDPB within its 2021-2023 Strategy, which helps 
DPAs increase their capacity to supervise and enforce 
the safeguarding of personal data. The SPE provides 
support in the form of expertise for investigations 
and enforcement activities of common interest to 
DPAs and enhances cooperation by reinforcing and 
complementing the strengths of the individual DPAs 
and addressing operational needs. This includes but 
is not limited to, analytical support, assistance in the 
performance findings of a forensic nature, as well 
as in the preparation of investigative reports on the 
basis of evidence collected. 

To better coordinate the work of the SPE, the EDPB 
set up a list of SPE contact points within the DPAs,  
at the end of 2021. In addition, the EDPB launched 
a call for expressions of interest “Establishment of a 
List of Individual Experts for the implementation of 
the EDPB’s Support Pool of Experts” in February 2022. 
The objective of this call is to set up a reserve list of 
external experts with legal or technical expertise.  
At the end of 2023, the EDPB counted around 500 
experts on its reserve list. These experts are qualified 
in  areas  such  as  IT  auditing,  website  security,  
mobile  OS  and  apps,  IoT,  cloud-computing, 
behavioural advertising, anonymization techniques, 
cryptology,  AI,  UX  design,  fintech,  data  science,  
digital  law,  etc. They  may  assist  DPAs  in  different 
stages  of  their  investigation  and  enforcement 
activities  in  the  field  of  data  protection.  So  far,  
a total of 13 projects, some of which are on AI-related 
matters, have been launched since July 2022. 

Lastly,  in  June  2023,  the  EDPB  organised  a  boot 
camp  on  website  inspections,  where  it  invited 
several DPA experts. This event was a great occasion 

to use and discuss the new EDPB website auditing 
tool  developed  in  the  framework  of  the  SPE,  
and which is now published as open source code  
on  code.europa.eu.  A  second  boot  camp  will  be 
organised in 2024.

“An important challenge for data 

protection authorities is the accelerated 

growth of new technologies based, 

among others, on artificial intelligence, 
blockchain, ubiquitous computing and 
connected objects, quantum computing, 
virtual reality and augmented reality. 
The completely innovative and disruptive 
use cases that emerge there very often 
raise questions about the protection of 
personal data and users’ privacy. DPAs 

must accelerate acquisition of new 

expertise in these domains and intensify 
collaboration between themselves and 

with other regulators.”

Tine A. Larsen, 

Chair of the Luxembourg’s DPA

Taskforces

A number of taskforces have worked on key topics 
with  a  cross-border  dimension  in  2023,  in  order 
to  ensure  a  consistent  approach  by  the  DPAs.  
Two reports on the work undertaken by taskforces 
were  adopted  in  2023,  namely  the  Report  of  the 
Cookie  Banner  Taskforce  and  the  Report  of  101 
Taskforce. 

31

EDPB Annual Report 2023The Cookie Banner Taskforce was created to examine 
and provide a coordinated response to the “cookies 
banner”  complaints  received  by  None  of  Your 
Business  (NOYB).  This  taskforce  was  established 
in accordance with Art. 70(1)(u) GDPR to promote 
cooperation, information sharing and best practices 
between  DPAs,  specifically  regarding  the  use  by 
controllers  of  cookies  banners. The  Report  of  the 
work  undertaken  by  the  Cookie  Banner Taskforce 
includes the common denominator between DPAs 
in their interpretation of the applicable provisions 
of  the  ePrivacy  Directive  and  of  the  GDPR,  on 
issues  such  as  reject  buttons,  pre-ticked  boxes,  
banner design, or withdraw icons. Throughout 2023,  
the Taskforce members continued to share updates 
on  the  handling  of  NOYB  complaints  and  discuss 
their  findings  and  analyses.  The  Report  of  the 
work  undertaken  by  the  Cookie  Banner Taskforce  
examines eight different practices implemented by 
websites and that were the subject of the complaints 
received.  These  include  the  absence  of  a “reject” 
button  on  the  first  layer  of  the  cookie  banner,  
the use of pre-ticked boxes for consent to cookies,  
banner  design,  or  the  absence  of  an  icon  to 
withdraw consent. The Report includes the common 
denominator between DPAs in their interpretation  
of  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  ePrivacy  
Directive and of the GDPR on these eight practices. 
For example, DPAs were of the view that even though 
website owners should implement easily accessible  
solutions to allow users to withdraw their consent, 
they  cannot  be  imposed  a  specific  withdrawal 
solution. Throughout 2023, the Taskforce members 
continued  to  share  updates  on  the  handling  of  
NOYB  complaints  and  discuss  their  findings  and 
analyses.

“Google Analytics” and “Facebook Business Tools” on  
a  website.  The  Report  of  the  work  undertaken 
by  the  DPAs  within  the  101  Taskforce  provides 
a  complete  assessment  of  the  complaints, 
focusing  namely  on  the  transfers  of  personal 
data,  the  principle  of  accountability  and  the 
allocation  of  roles  between  the  website  and 
the  provider  of  the  two  tools.  More  specifically,  
the Report reflects the common denominator agreed 
by the DPAs in their interpretation of the applicable 
provisions  of  the  GDPR.  For  example,  the  Report 
highlights  that  in  cases  where  website  operators 
are regarded as data controllers, they must carefully 
examine whether the respective tool can be used 
in  compliance  with  data  protection  requirements 
in accordance with the principle of accountability. 
The DPAs’ common assessment has enabled several 
DPAs to adopt consistent decisions, such as ordering 
website  operators  to  comply  with  the  transfer 
provisions of the GDPR, and if necessary, to stop the 
data transfer at stake.

The EDPB also decided to launch another taskforce  
in  2023  in  light  of  the  recent  enforcement  action 
undertaken by the Italian data protection authority 
against Open AI about the Chat GPT service.

EDPB Template Complaint Form

The EDPB Template Complaint Form was adopted 
in  June  2023  in  order  to  facilitate  the  submission 
of  complaints  by  individuals  regarding  possible 
infringements in connection with the processing of 
their personal data. The Template Complaint Form 
also aims at facilitating the subsequent exchange of 
information between DPAs and at ensuring a more 
efficient handling of such complaints by the DPAs.  

The 101 Taskforce was created to handle the “101 
complaints” received from NOYB regarding transfers 
of  personal  data.  The  complaints  particularly 
revolved  around  the  implementation  of  the  tools 

In  its  Joint  Opinion  01/2023,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS 
welcomed  significant  similarities  between  the 
Commission’s proposal to harmonise the information 
to be provided for a complaint to be admissible and 

32

EDPB Annual Report 2023the EDPB Template Complaint Form. It is the opinion 
of the EDPB and EDPS that “complaints constitute a 
cornerstone of the supervisory work for enforcing the 
GDPR” and the right to file a complaint should not be 
restricted by imposing unnecessary administrative 
burdens on those filing complaints.

3.2.  COOPERATION UNDER THE GDPR

Under the GDPR, national Data Protection Authorities 
(DPAs)  have  a  duty  to  cooperate  to  ensure  the 
consistent application of data protection law. 

In  cases  that  have  a  cross-border  component,  the 
DPAs  have  a  range  of  tools  at  their  disposal,  such 
as the mutual assistance, joint operations and the  
One-Stop-Shop cooperation mechanism to facilitate  
harmonisation. 

A case with a cross-border component is registered 
in  a  central  database  via  the  IMI.  In  total,  
366  cross-border  cases  have  been  created  in  the  
EDPB’s  case  register,  and  1023  procedures  related 
to  the  One-Stop-Shop  (Art.  60  GDPR)  have  been 
triggered in 2023, out of which 442 Final Decisions. 

Cross-border 

366

cases

186
Mutual 

assistance 
(Art. 61)

Please note that:

2817

Assistance on 
a voluntary 

basis

684
LSA&CSA 

identiﬁcation 
procedures

IMI 2023

5
Joint 

operation 
procedures 

(Art. 62)

442

OSS Final 
Decisions

1023

One-Stop-Shop 
(OSS) (Art. 60)

•  References  to  case  register  entries  in  these  statistics  do  not  have  a  1-to-1  correlation  to  the  number  of  cross-border  

complaints handled per country as multiple complaints may be bundled in one case register entry, which therefore can relate to 

multiple cross-border cases;

•  Depending  on  the  Member  State  legislation,  DPAs  may  have  handled  complaints  outside  of  the  Art.  60  GDPR  procedure  in 

accordance with their national law.

33

EDPB Annual Report 20233.3.  CASE DIGEST
Case  digest  on  security  of  processing  and 
data breach notification 

For  the  second  time,8  the  EDPB  commissioned  a 
thematic case digest as part of its SPE initiative. Case 
digests are overviews of decisions adopted under the 
one-stop-shop procedure about a particular topic. 
The purpose of these digests is to give the DPAs and 
the general public, including privacy professionals, 
insight into the decisions adopted by DPAs following 
cross-border cooperation procedures.

Professor  Eleni  Kosta9  drafted  a  case  digest  based 
on  90  decisions  for  which  DPAs  cooperated  with 
one another under the OSS mechanism in the field  
of  security  of  data  processing  and  data  breach 
notifications.10  More  specifically,  these  decisions 
relate  to  Art.  32  GDPR  (security  of  processing),  
Art. 33 GDPR (notification of a personal data breach 
to  the  DPA)  and  Art.  34  GDPR  (communication 
of  a  personal  data  breach  to  the  data  subject).  
All of these decisions were adopted between January 
2019 and June 2023. The case digest also refers to 
the available guidance at EU level, and in particular, 
EDPB  Guidelines  9/2022  on  personal  data  breach 
notification  under  GDPR  and  Guidelines  01/2021 
on  examples  regarding  personal  data  breach 
notification.  Relevant  cases  before  the  Court  of  
Justice  of  the  EU,  as  well  as  decisions  and  
guidance adopted at national level are mentioned, 
such  as  national  guidance  on  the  use  of  
robust  passwords  and  secure  authentication 
channels.

DPAs  often  applied  Arts.  32,  33  and  34  GDPR 
altogether  in  their  decisions,  given  that  the 
occurrence of a data breach is in most cases linked 
to  the  implementation  of  security  measures.  
Many  decisions  relate  to  data  breaches  caused 
by  malicious  attacks  by  third-party  hackers,  
insufficient  internal  practices  and  IT  systems  or 
human  error.  As  a  result,  the  case  digest  offers  
insights  on  the  interpretation  and  application  of 
these GDPR provisions by DPAs in all of these diverse 
scenarios.

Art.  32  GDPR  sets  out  an  obligation  for  both  data 
controllers  and  data  processors  to  implement 
“appropriate technical and organisational measures 
to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk”. 
In that regard, the case digest constitutes a valuable 
resource, analysing how DPAs assessed whether the 
security  measures  implemented  by  organisations 
were  appropriate.  More  specifically,  DPAs  carried 
out  analyses  of  the  technical  and  organisational 
measures implemented - both before the occurrence 
of  a  data  breach  (through  preventive  measures) 
and  after  such  occurrence  (through  remedial  or 
mitigating  measures).  Despite  the  fact  that  the 
DPAs analysed the relevant security measures on a  
case-by-case basis taking into account the specifics  
of  the  affected  data  processing,  conclusions  can 
still  be  drawn  regarding  whether  certain  security 
measures  are  considered  sufficient  by  DPAs.  
For 
instance,  several  DPAs  examined  the 
establishment of proper access control mechanisms 
based  on  the  individual  authentication  to  access 
specific  data.  Lack  of  such  clear  access  control 
mechanisms led various DPAs to find violations of 

8  Case digest on the right to object and the right to erasure, Alessandro Mantelero, 9 December 2022, https://edpb.europa.eu/system/

files/2023-02/one-stop-shop_case_digest_on_the_right_to_object_and_right_to_erasure_en.pdf. 

9  Professor of Technology Law and Human Rights, Tilburg Institute for Law, Technology, and Society (TILT), Tilburg University.

10    The EDPB’s public register with the one-stop-shop final decisions is available at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/consistency-find-

ings/register-for-article-60-final-decisions_en. Annex 1 to the case digest lists the decisions relied upon and provides the link to the  
redacted decisions, which are available on the EDPB’s public register.

34

EDPB Annual Report 20233.4.  NATIONAL CASES WITH EXERCISE OF 

CORRECTIVE POWERS

DPAs  have  investigative,  advisory  and  corrective 
measures at their disposal to ensure entities within 
their countries apply data protection law correctly 
and  consistently.  Corrective  measures  include  the 
following:

•  Issuing  warnings  to  a  data  controller  or 
processor  where  its  intended  processing 
operations are likely to infringe the GDPR; 
•  Issuing reprimands to a data controller or 
processor  where  processing  operations 
have infringed the GDPR;

•  Ordering  a  data  controller  or  processor 
to  comply  with  an  individual’s  request 
or  to  bring  processing  operations  into 
compliance with the GDPR; 

•  Imposing  processing  limitations,  bans  or 

fines. 

In 2023, DPAs issued a number of fines,  as indicated in 
the table on the following page.

Art. 32 GDPR. Other decisions show similarities in the 
conclusions reached by DPAs, for example regarding 
the storage and encryption of passwords, and the 
recording of logs.

Under Art. 33 GDPR, data controllers are required to 
notify the competent DPA of a personal data breach 
“without  undue  delay”  and  –  “where  feasible”  –  
“not later than 72 hours after having become aware of 
it”.  A notification to the DPA is not mandatory when 
the  personal  data  breach  is  unlikely  to  result  in  a  
“risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”. 
The analysis of the OSS decisions sheds some light 
on  how  data  controllers  should  document  their 
compliance with this provision.

Lastly, Art. 34 GDPR establishes an obligation for data 
controllers to communicate the personal data breach 
to  the  affected  individuals “without  undue  delay”, 
when the personal data breach is likely to result in 
a “high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural 
persons”.

This  case  digest  analyses  the  findings  of  DPAs  in  
very  diverse  scenarios,  such  as  in  the  event  
of ransomware, compromised hardware or accounts 
and accidental disclosures of personal data. It creates 
a rich pool of analyses of different security incidents, 
along  with  the  corresponding  security  measures  
that  DPAs  found  to  be  appropriate  or  not  
in the specific context. As a result, the case digest 
constitutes  a  very  useful  tool  for  DPAs  and  their  
case  officers  when  assessing  similar  cases  in  the  
future.  The  decisions  mentioned  also  enable 
organisations  to  grasp  which  preventive  security 
measures  they  may  choose  to  implement  when 
processing  personal  data,  and/or  which  remedial 
measures to adopt following a personal data breach. 
All  the  decisions  referred  to  in  the  case  digest  
are easily accessible with a direct link to the EDPB’s 
public register.

35

EDPB Annual Report 2023DPA 

Austria

Belgium

Bulgaria

Croatia

Cyprus

Czech Republic 

Denmark

Estonia 

Finland

France

Number 
of fines

Total Fines amount 

55

3

93

28

11

23

5

12

3

37

€254 075

€80 000

€159 931

€8 266 350

€120 250

€140 000

€2 100 000

€213 300

€464 600

€79 164 500

Germany (all Länder grouped together)

469

€9 743 930

Greece

Hungary

Iceland 

Ireland 

Italy

Latvia

Liechtenstein

Lithuania

Luxembourg

12

95

12

6

€636 000

€1 380 334

€537 000

€1 551 782 500

146

€25 200 000

3

1

13

3

€22 900

€500

€64 060

€6 500

36

EDPB Annual Report 2023DPA 

Malta

Netherlands

Norway

Poland

Portugal 

Romania 

Slovakia 

Slovenia

Spain

Sweden

Number 
of fines

Total Fines amount 

3

8

7

24

48

68

47

77

367

11

€32 500

€ 243 160 000

€8 500 000

€213 820

€367 450

€444 622

€122 665

€56 910

€29 817 410

€10 780 000

€1 973 832 107

37

EDPB Annual Report 2023The  EDPB  website  includes  a  selection  of  DPA 
supervisory actions. This section of the Annual Report 
contains  a  non-exhaustive  list  of  certain  national 
enforcement  actions  in  different  EEA  countries.  
Some of the cases presented in this section were dealt 
with through the OSS cooperation mechanism. 

Some cases examined in this section highlighted a 
lack of proper technical and organisational measures 
for  processing  personal  data  securely.  Many  cases 
revolved around the lack of a legal basis including 
data  processing  without  individual’s  consent.  
In some instances, DPAs dealt with cases involving 
the  unlawful  processing  of  special  categories 
of  personal  data,  such  as  health  data.  A  great 
number  of  cases  also  included  the  failure  of  data 
controllers  to  provide  information  about  their 
processing activities and the violation of individual 
rights, such as the right to erasure and the right of  
access. Moreover, some significant incidents involved 
the failure to notify individuals of the occurred or 
the potential risk of data breaches. Both private and 
public entities were imposed fines by the national 
DPAs.

3.4.1. 

AUSTRIA   

In  2023,  the  Austrian  DPA  performed  536 
investigations  and  received  1,732  complaints.  
A total of 55 sanctions corresponding to €254,075 in 
fines were issued. These penalties were imposed by 
the DPA regarding instances of unlawful processing 
of personal data (Arts. 5, 6 and 9 GDPR), violations 
of  data  subject  rights  (Arts.  15  and  17  GDPR)  and 
inadequate cooperation with the DPAs (Art. 31 GDPR). 
Two cases handled by the Austrian DPA in 2023 are 
worth highlighting.

In February, the Austrian DPA rejected a complaint 
on  the  grounds  that  it  was  manifestly  unfounded 
pursuant to Art. 57(4) GDPR. Upon its investigation, 
the  DPA  uncovered  that  the  complainant  had 

offered  to  refrain  from  lodging  a  complaint  with 
the data protection authority against a payment of 
€2,900. A letter from the complainant on this matter 
was  submitted  by  the  respondent.  Against  this 
background,  the  Austrian  DPA  concluded  that  no 
real need for legal protection can be assumed on the 
part of the complainant, thereby rendering the filing 
of the complaint as dishonest and the use of the data 
protection authority’s activities by the complainant   
as an abuse of rights.

In  May,  a  data  controller  located  in  the  US,  
Clearview  AI,  was  ordered  by  the  Austrian  DPA  to 
delete the complainant’s personal data and appoint 
a representative in the EU in accordance with Art. 27 
GDPR. The data controller operates a face recognition 
platform that allows its customers to match photos 
of people with images found online. The images are 
gathered from websites featuring publicly accessible 
photos  of  human  faces. The  database  at  the  time 
contained  30  billion  photographs.  The  decision 
against  Clearview  AI  was  taken  after  the  Austrian 
DPA established that the data controller had been 
processing  biometric  personal  data  contrary  to 
Art. 5(1)(a) and (b) GDPR and without a legal basis 
pursuant to Art. 6(1) GDPR or Art. 9 GDPR.

3.4.2. 

BELGIUM

In 2023, the Belgian DPA had 85 investigation files 
and  one  specific  audit  regarding  the  Schengen 
Acquis. The DPA also issued 57 compliance orders 
and  adopted  110  sanctions,  including  three  fines 
corresponding to €80,000  in total. Three cases are 
presented in this section.

The  Belgian  DPA  handled  a  case  regarding  the  
Belgian  Ministry  of  Finance’s  transfer  of  personal 
banking  data  to  the  US  tax  authorities  (IRS)  in 
the  context  of  the  application  of  the  “FATCA” 
intergovernmental  agreement  between  Belgium 
and  the  United  States. The  Litigation  Chamber  of 

38

EDPB Annual Report 2023the  Belgian  DPA  concluded  that  the  processing 
of  personal  data  by  the  Ministry  of  Finance, 
including  their  transfer  to  the  IRS,  was  unlawful, 
as  it  violated  the  principles  of  purpose,  necessity 
and  minimisation,  as  well  as  the  rules  of  Chapter 
V  of  the  GDPR  (lack  of  appropriate  safeguards 
for  the  transfer  to  the  US,  as  set  out  in  the  FATCA 
agreement).  In  view  of  the  unlawfulness  of  the 
processing,  the  Litigation  Chamber  mandated  the 
cessation  of  processing  the  complainant’s  data. 
While the Brussels Court of Appeal later granted the 
Ministry’s  request  for  suspension  of  the  decision,  
it referred the case back to the Litigation Chamber on 
20 December 2023.

In another case, the Belgian DPA concluded that the 
collection and listing of personal data by an online 
platform,  such  as  contact  details  and  professional 
status,  was  unlawful.  Indeed,  the  DPA  considered 
that the condition of balancing the opposing rights 
and interests at stake was not met. More specifically, 
it ruled that the processing by the data controller 
did  not  fall  within  the  reasonable  expectations  of 
the individuals. Lastly, the Belgian DPA concluded 
that the right to data erasure was not implemented 
in a timely manner under Art. 12(3) GDPR. The data 
controller  was  therefore  issued  a  fine  of  €10,000 
and was ordered to cease the unlawful processing.  
It should be noted that an appeal for annulment has 
been lodged against this decision with the Brussels 
Court of Appeal.

Finally,  the  Belgian  DPA  issued  an  administrative 
fine of €40,000 to a data controller for the violation 
of  the  complainant’s  right  of  access,  specifically 
to  recordings  of  telephonic  conversations.  
The complainant had entered into two agreements 
with the data controller under which the defendant 
would be responsible for developing a website and 
corporate videos for the complainant. In connection 
with  these  agreements,  telephone  conversations 

took place regarding the functional elaboration and  
design  of  this  website  and  videos.  However,  
the complainant claimed that he was not aware of 
the  recording  of  such  conversations.  The  Belgian 
DPA ruled that the recording of the phone calls was 
lawful as (a) the requirements under Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR 
were met and (b) the complainant had been properly 
informed about the processing. However, the Belgian 
DPA concluded that the data controller infringed the 
complainant’s right of access by omitting to provide 
a copy of the phone call recordings. In addition to 
the fine, an order to provide the recordings to the 
complainant was issued.

3.4.3. 

BULGARIA

The  Bulgarian  DPA,  the  Commission  for  Personal 
Data  Protection 
(CPDP),  dealt  with  1,497 
complaints  and  performed  890  investigations  in 
2023.  93  sanctions  were  issued,  corresponding 
to  €159,931  in  fines.  Complaints  addressed  by 
the  DPA  pertained  to  data  breaches  concerning  
travel arrangements, commercial payments with virtual 
currencies, and on-line sales, as well as the processing 
of personal data regarding video surveillance, political 
campaigns, sensitive data, telecommunications, postal 
services, etc. This section will cover a selection of these 
cases.

In 2023, the Bulgarian DPA handled a case concerning 
a  fine  issued  by  another  Member  State  authority 
in  response  to  traffic  regulation  violations  by  an 
individual with a business vehicle. At the time of the 
violation, the individual was on sick leave and when 
the fine was issued, the individual was no longer an 
employee of the data controller. Upon receiving the 
fine, the data controller’s official failed to check the 
circumstances of the traffic violation and provided 
the individual’s personal information to the issuing 
authority. The vehicle was used based on a concluded 
contact between the data controller and the leasing 

39

EDPB Annual Report 2023company. On the date of the violation, the vehicle 
was  in  possession  of  the  leasing  company  with 
which the individual had no relations. In light of this, 
the CPDP issued a property sanction of BGN 10,000 
(approximately €5,000). The case can be found on the 
following link: https://cpdp.bg/userfiles/file/Bulletin/
KZLD_Bulletin_2_101_March_2023.pdf - in Bulgarian 
- pages 50-58.

In  another  case,  the  Bulgarian  DPA  imposed  a 
fine  of  BGN  25,000  (approximately  €12,500)  on  a 
data  controller  for  the  violation  of  Art.  6(1)  GDPR. 
The  data  controller  was  ordered  to  take  the 
necessary  technical  and  organisational  measures 
to  bring  its    processing  operations  in  compliance 
with  the  GDPR.  This  decision  was  taken  by  the  
Bulgarian  DPA  in  relation  to  a  political  party’s 
submission  of  a  list  with  names  of  supporters 
to  participate 
in  the  Parliament  elections.  
When  submitting  the  list,  the  political  party  failed 
to  implement  clear  procedures  for  verifying  the 
personal  identification  data  contained  therein.  
As  a  result  of  this  and  considering  the  party’s 
repeated violations of the same nature in the past,  
the  Bulgarian  DPA  decided  to  issue  the  data 
controller a hefty fine (https://cpdp.bg/userfiles/file/
Bulletin/KZLD_Bulletin_2_101_March_2023.pdf  - 
 in Bulgarian- pages 28-35).

3.4.4. 

CROATIA

received  279 

In  2023,  the  Croatian  DPA  performed  447 
investigations, 
complaints, 
issued  148  compliance  orders,  and  adopted  28 
sanctions  corresponding  to  €8,266,350  in  fines.  
These  relate  among  others,  to  data  breaches  due 
to  a  lack  of  undertaking  appropriate  technical  and  
organisational measures, the processing of personal data 
concerning CCTV, processing of sensitive data without 
a lawful basis, not providing transparent information to 
individuals about the processing of their personal data, 

the absence of a data processing agreement between 
a data controller and data processor etc.

There are three cases worth highlighting.

The  Croatian  DPA  imposed  an  administrative  fine  
of €5,470,000 (HRK 41,213,715) on a debt collection 
agency acting as a data controller. This penalty was 
imposed for breaches of Arts. 5, 6, 9, 12, 13, and 26 of 
the GDPR.

The  Croatian  DPA  imposed  an  administrative  fine 
of  €2,265,000  on  a  debt  collection  agency  as  a 
data controller. This fine was issued in response to 
violations of Arts. 13, 28, and 32 of the GDPR.

The  Croatian  DPA  issued  an  administrative  fine  of 
€380,000 to a trading company for organizing betting 
games acting as the data controller. This penalty was 
imposed for violations of Arts. 6, 13, 25, and 32 of the 
GDPR.

3.4.5. 

CYPRUS

In  2023,  the  Cyprus  DPA  received  437  complaints, 
130  of  which  related  to  unsolicited  electronic 
communications. The DPA performed 14 investigations 
and  11  of  them  were  carried  out  with  on-site 
inspections.  It  issued  54  Decisions,  which  included 
8 compliance orders and 11 fines corresponding to 
€120,250. These fines were imposed for data breaches 
concerning  cyberattacks,  as  well  as  for  processing 
personal data without a valid legal basis or without 
appropriate technical and organizational measures in 
place.

The  first  case  of  interest  occurred  in  March  and 
concerned  a  personal  data  breach  involving  a 
ransomware  cyberattack.  The  Cyprus  DPA  was 
notified about this incident by the Open University 
of Cyprus. According to the university, the personal 
data  of  students,  graduates  and  contractors  that 

40

EDPB Annual Report 2023It  can  be  taken  for  granted  that  a  publicly  active  
high-ranking politician cannot be in any way stripped 
from  the  right  to  privacy,  however  the  public 
interest in information necessary for the formation 
of  political  opinions  among  the  public  or  for  the 
overall  assessment  of  the  politician  can  prevail 
over the person´s interest for protection of privacy. 
Concurrently, special considerations shall be taken 
as  to  the  rights  of  other  individuals  who  are  not 
publicly  active  (for  example  assistants  or  drivers) 
and who could be disproportionately affected by the 
disclosure of the interception.

The  method  and  context  of  publication  are  also 
important. 
Information  therefore  cannot  be 
presented  in  a  coarsely  insulting  manner  or, 
respectively,  as  an  attempt  to  create  a  sensation 
even  if  it  would  be  a  verbatim  transcript  of  
communications. The fact that similar information  
has  already  been  published  does  not  pose  any 
obstacle for a sanction proceeding.

In 2023, the CZ DPA imposed a fine, under the Law 
Enforcement Directive, on the Ministry of Interior of 
the Czech Republic in the amount of CZK 975,000 
(approximately €39,800) for a large-scale processing 
of personal data by the Police of the Czech Republic 
concerning  persons  ordered  to  isolation  due  to 
the ascertained COVID-19 disease. Affected by the 
processing were approximately 2,000,000 individuals 
who were infected by the disease between 1st April 
2021 and 8th March 2022.

The Police collected personal data on the individual´s 
health state on a large-scale and preventively without 
any linkage to a specific investigated case whereby 
it exceeded its competence vested by the national 
legislation for processing of personal data.

Furthermore,  the  Police  failed,  in  this  respect,  
to  properly  meet  the  information  obligation  

towards persons whose personal data were collected 
and  processed  in  relation  to  the  ascertained  
COVID-19  disease.  Yet  another  breach  consisted 
in  omitting  of  two  steps  foreseen  by  the  law 
that  should  have  to  precede  the  start  of  such 
a  vast  and  serious  collection  of  personal  data. 
The  police  should  have  had  to  carry  out  a 
data  protection 
(DPIA)  
in  the  first  place.  The  intended  manner  of  the  
large-scale  gathering  and  processing  of  personal 
data  on  health  should  have  had  to  be  consulted 
beforehand with the CZ DPA. The law declares these 
two steps as obligatory for that kind of personal data 
processing,  namely  as  a  risk  prevention  in  case  of 
persons whose data shall be processed.

impact  assessment 

Link to annual report of CZ DPA:  https://uoou.gov.cz/
media-publikace/ke-stazeni/vyrocni-zpravy

3.4.7. 

DENMARK

fines. 

issue  administrative 

In  most  EEA  jurisdictions,  DPAs  have  the  power 
to 
In  Denmark,  
however, this is not the case. Indeed, data protection 
law infringements are first looked into by the Danish 
DPA  before  being  reported  to  the  police.  After  the 
police has conducted an investigation to determine 
whether  charges  should  be  filed,  the  court  then 
decides  on  any  possible  fines.  In  2023,  the  Danish 
DPA  performed  504  investigations,  received  1,765 
complaints,  and  proposed  5  sanctions  of  at  least  
€2.1 million in fines. Two cases are worth highlighting in 
this section.

In  the  first  case,  a  reprimand  was  issued  to  the 
Danish  Agency  for  Digitalisation  for  violating  the 
data  minimisation  principle  laid  down  in  Art.  5(1)
(c)  GDPR.  The  Danish  DPA  established  that  the 
Agency had processed the personal data of far too 
many  Danish  citizens  (almost  four  million)  when 
running  its  application  containing  digital  replicas 
of citizens’ driving licences. The DPA concluded that 

42

EDPB Annual Report 2023the  Agency’s  processing  activities  in  connection 
with the operation of the app, whereby an extract 
of  information  about  all  holders  of  a  valid  Danish 
driving license in the official driving license register, 
which  is  run  by  the  Danish  Police,  is  stored  and 
processed,  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  GDPR. 
Consequently,  the  DPA  prohibited  the  Agency  to 
further store and otherwise process personal data 
from the official driving license register about citizens 
who had not actively signed up to use the application.

The Danish DPA opened a case against the Danish 
Growth  Fund  (DGF)  on  the  basis  of  a  complaint 
from  a  citizen.  According  to  the  complainant,  
the DGF used spy pixels in its newsletters, allowing 
it to collect data on the recipients’ online behaviour.  
The DGF specifically used this method to track which 
articles the recipients clicked on, in order to optimize 
the organisation and sending of their newsletters. 
However,  the  consent  of  the  recipients  had  not 
been  obtained  by  the  DGF  for  processing  data 
through the use of spy pixels. Furthermore, the DPA 
established that the data controller failed to observe 
the obligation to provide information regarding the 
processing  of  the  recipients’  data.  For  the  reasons 
mentioned above, the DGF was issued a reprimand.

3.4.8. 

ESTONIA

In total, the Estonian Data Protection Inspectorate 
(EDPI) received 833 complaints and 193 data breach 
notifications  affecting  over  322,229  individuals 
in  2023.  The  EDPI  issued  383  compliance  orders, 
conducted 53 own initiative inspections and adopted 
12 sanctions corresponding to €213,300 in fines and 
penalty payments. 

The  EDPI  issued  a  fine  of  €200,000  to  the  
Ida-Tallinna Central Hospital for its failure to ensure 
the appropriate security of the health data of their 
patients,  specifically  the  protection  of  that  data 
against  unauthorised  or  unlawful  processing. 

It  was  established  by  the  Estonian  DPA  that  no 
internal  regulation  to  destroy  paper  records  of 
health  data  had  been  put  in  place  by  the  data 
controller.  Pursuant  to  the  complaint,  the  health 
data  of  several  patients  was  made  available  to  all  
passers-by  in  an  open  container  next  to  the  
hospital’s main door.

In  2023,  the  Estonian  DPA  also  dealt  with  a  case 
concerning  the  processing  of  data  of  childless  
women by the Pere Sihtkapital Foundation. It was 
revealed  that  the  foundation  had  requested  the 
Population  Register  for  the  contacts  of  childless 
women  and  then  proceeded  to  inquire  them 
about  sensitive  matters,  such  as  their  political 
party  affiliation.  The  data  collection  on  women 
was conducted by an employee of the University of 
Tartu, however it was established that the employee 
in  question  had  exceeded  its  competence  when 
concluding the cooperation agreement. The Estonian 
DPA concluded that the Pere Sihtkapital Foundation 
failed to inform the data subjects in a timely manner 
and to fulfil the obligation to provide information 
regarding its processing activities. The data controller 
was consequently instructed by the EDPI to delete the 
processed data. Misdemeanour proceedings against 
the foundation are underway.

Lastly,  the  EDPI  is  presently  in  the  midst  of 
misdemeanour  proceedings  against  the  Viljandi 
Hospital.  According  to  the  case  facts,  hospital 
employees  were  asked  to  provide  a  urine  sample 
in order to reveal the individual responsible for the  
theft  of  medicine  from  the  hospital’s  medicine 
cabinet. However, several employees expressed that 
they had not given their concrete consent to provide 
the urine sample.

3.4.9. 

FINLAND

In 2023, the Finnish DPA performed 11 inspections, 
received  1,763  complaints,  issued  20  compliance 

43

EDPB Annual Report 2023orders and adopted three sanctions corresponding 
to  €464,600  in  fines.  These  relate,  among  others,  
to the right of access regarding phone calls or patient 
records as well as failing to comply with the DPA’s 
order. In this section, three cases from the Finnish 
DPA’s work related to data protection violations are 
presented.

On  the  basis  of  non-compliance  with  an  order 
issued  by  the  Finnish  DPA,  a  credit  information 
company, Suomen Asiakastieto Oy (data controller),  
was awarded a fine of €440,000. The Finnish DPA had 
ordered the data controller to rectify its practices in 
registering payment default entries and to erase all 
inaccurate entries saved into the credit information 
register due to inadequate practices. The Finish DPA 
established  that  information  based  on  decisions 
issued in civil cases should not have been registered 
as payment default entries.

The  Finnish  DPA  issued  an  administrative  fine 
of  €23,000  on  a  business  directory  operator,  
Suomen  Yritysrekisteri  (data  controller),  for 
infringements of the right to access regarding sales 
call recordings. The company had delivered a written 
summary of the call in some of the cases, but the 
summaries  did  not  correspond  to  the  contents  of 
the call. The fine was also grounded in the fact that 
the data controller had neglected to comply with the 
DPA’s prior order to rectify its practices.

The  accommodation  provider  Forenom  (data 
controller)  was  issued  a  reprimand  for  the  lack  of 
sufficient safeguards and an order to shorten its data 
retention period. The data controller was subject to 
a data breach that affected the personal data of tens 
of thousands of customers in several EU countries. 
The  protection  measures  of  the  data  controller 
were  inadequate,  and  the  data  controller  had  not 
complied with the principles of data minimisation 
and storage limitation. The matter was processed in  

cross-border  cooperation  with  17  Concerned 
Supervisory Authorities (CSAs).

3.4.10. 

FRANCE

In 2023, the French DPA, the National Commission 
on Informatics and Liberty (CNIL), handled several 
cases  where  it  issued  a  total  of  37  sanctions 
corresponding  to  €79,164,500  in  fines  relating  to, 
among  others,  information  given  to  individuals, 
consent of individuals, security of personal data and 
lack of cooperation with CNIL. It was established that 
the CNIL performed 157 on-site inspections and 183 
other investigations, received 16,431 complaints and 
issued 55 compliance orders in 2023. 

On 13 April, the CNIL dealt with a national case where 
it imposed an overdue penalty payment on Clearview 
AI. The company was ordered to pay €5,200,000 for 
having failed to comply with the order issued as part 
of the DPA’s sanction decision of October 2022.

On  15  June,  the  CNIL  sanctioned  CRITEO,  
which specialises in online advertising, with a fine of 
€40 million for failing to verify that the persons from 
whom  it  processed  data  had  given  their  consent. 
 This case was dealt with through the OSS mechanism 
with CNIL as Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) and all 
other DPAs as CSAs.

3.4.11.  GERMANY

There are both national (federal) and regional DPAs in 
Germany. Three cases are highlighted in this section. 
A case was addressed by the Saxon Data Protection 
and  Transparency  Commissioner  (Saxon  DPA) 
concerning the permanent monitoring of children’s 
communications  by  a  company  offering  internet 
services. The  Saxon  DPA  uncovered  that  the  data 
controller was providing its internet services without 
age verification measures to children between the 
ages of 12 and 18. Moreover, upon the individual’s 

44

EDPB Annual Report 2023entry  on  the  internet  platform,  several  external 
services  by  third  parties  were  initiated  without 
the  user’s  consent.  The  data  controller  had  later 
introduced  an  age  verification  by  self-declaration,  
but the Saxon DPA ruled it to be ineffective. In the end, 
the Saxon DPA deemed the consent of the children 
invalid and issued a reprimand to the controller.

In  another  case,  the  Lower  Saxony  DPA  carried 
out  investigations,  including  on-site  inspections, 
regarding so called “smart data analytics” by several 
banks. Such analytics are utilised to filter out specific 
individuals  from  the  customer  base  for  certain 
advertising  measures. The  scores  generated  were 
particularly  based  on  payment  transaction  data,  
as well as a wide range of other personal data, such as 
the customer’s age, personal status, and the duration 
of the customer relationship. In most cases, the banks 
based the processing on “legitimate interests” under 
Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR. However, the Lower Saxony DPA 
conducted a balancing of interests and concluded 
that  the  fundamental  rights  of  the  customers 
prevailed.  The  Lower  Saxony  DPA  exercised  its 
corrective powers.

“Banks hold sensitive customer 

data and therefore have a high level of 

responsibility. We will continue to monitor 

this area closely.”

Denis Lehmkemper, the State 

Commissioner for Data Protection of Lower 

Saxony.

In February 2023, the Federal Commissioner for Data 
Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) issued 
a  decision  to  the  Federal  Press  Office  (BPA)  which 
prohibits the BPA to further operate the Facebook 
page of the German Federal government.

 Upon receipt of the decision, BPA had four weeks to 
deactivate its Page or to bring an action against the 
decision  before  the  administrative  court. The  BPA 
decided on the latter option. The Court is currently 
deciding  the  case.  Since  2019,  BfDI  has  often 
pointed out that it is not possible to operate a page 
in  compliance  with  data  protection  regulations. 
A  short  report  by  the  German  Data  Protection 
Conference underlines this assessment.

3.4.12. 

 GREECE

The  Greek  DPA  received  over  1,328  complaints 
in  2023  and  performed  12  on-site  inspections 
pertaining  to,  among  others,  the  following  issues:  
a) lack of cooperation with the DPA, b) unauthorised 
and unlawful processing, c) non-fulfilment of data 
subjects’ rights, d) lack of notification of a personal 
data breach, and e) lack of appropriate technical and 
organisational measures and necessary safeguards 
during  processing.  In  12  cases,  the  Greek  DPA 
adopted  sanctions  corresponding  to  €636,000  in 
fines. Furthermore, it issued a total of 11 compliance 
orders.

In 2023, the Greek DPA imposed a fine on a computer 
systems  design  and  related  services  company, 
Intellexa S.A., for failing to cooperate with its requests 
for information, after the Greek DPA had carried out an 
administrative inspection at the company’s premises. 
The inspection was conducted with the intention of 
investigating instances of installation of spyware on 
mobile terminal equipment. It was determined that 
the company was using the spyware to monitor their 
users, without their knowledge, and subsequently 
collecting and processing their personal data. As the 

45

EDPB Annual Report 2023company was excessively late in answering the Greek 
DPA’s questions and did not provide any of the specific 
information requested, the Greek DPA imposed a fine 
of €50,000. Furthermore, it ordered the company to 
deliver the specific information immediately.

In  another  national  case,  the  Greek  DPA  issued 
a  €210,000  fine  to  the  leading  bank  in  Greece,  
Piraeus Bank. The bank received the fine for processing 
the personal data of its customers in breach of the 
principle  of  lawfulness  and  for  failing  to  integrate 
appropriate technical and organisational measures 
to process only necessary data for specific purposes. 
Additionally, the bank infringed the complainant’s 
right to be informed and right of access in relation to 
the transfer of their personal data to the Company for 
the Management of Claims from Loans and Credits, 
given that there was no longer any claim against them.  
The investigation is currently still in progress. 

Lastly, the Greek DPA dealt with a case relating to 
the  protection  of  personal  data  processed  in  the 
framework of the Automatic Fee Collection System, 
also referred to as “electronic ticket”. According to 
the  DPA’s  inspection,  the  Athens  Urban Transport 
Organisation’s  data  processing  activities  violated  
Art.  5(1)(e)  GDPR.  As  a  result,  the  data  controller 
was  fined  €50,000  and  received  a  reprimand 
for  the  breaches  of  Arts.  25(1)  and  35(1)  GDPR.  
Furthermore,  the  Greek  DPA  issued  a  compliance 
order for the determination of data retention periods 
for the various purposes of processing, as well as for a 
revision of the impact assessment on personal data.

3.4.13. 

 HUNGARY

In  2023,  the  Hungarian  DPA  performed  1,404 
inquiries  and  404  authority  procedures  for 
data  protection,  received  1330  complaints, 
issued  eight  compliance  orders  and  adopted  95 
sanctions  corresponding  to  €1,380,334  in  fines.   
Two noteworthy cases are presented in this section. 

In a case related to the use of 32 cameras in rooms 
where facial and body treatments as well as medical 
aesthetic  procedures  were  carried  out,  a  beauty 
parlour  was  fined  HUF  30  million  (approximately 
€78,547)  by  the  Hungarian  DPA.  It  was  uncovered 
that  the  cameras  placed  in  the  treatment  rooms 
were  oriented  towards  the  cosmetic  beds  where 
customers would receive treatments and that sound 
recording  was  enabled.  Although  the  company 
informed individuals about the video recording, they  
failed  to  provide  any  information  on  the  sound 
recording  and  the  genuine  purpose  of  the  
surveillance.  Considering  the  aforementioned 
discoveries,  the  DPA  concluded  that  the  data  
controller  had  violated  several  GDPR  provisions, 
notably  Arts.  5(1)(a)  and  (b)  and  6(1)  GDPR  by 
continuously  recording  work  and  monitoring 
guests, Art. 13(1) and (2) GDPR by incorrectly and 
misleadingly informing the data subjects about the 
handling of their personal data, as well as Arts. 5(1), 
24  and  25  GDPR  by  failing  to  provide  the  default 
settings for the operation of the camera system that 
minimise  data  processing.  Lastly,  the  Hungarian 
DPA  established  that  the  data  controller  violated  
Art.  32(1)(b)  and  (2)  GDPR  for  the  lack  of  system 
security  measures  and  Arts.  6  and  9(2)  GDPR  by 
recording the health data of the guests. In addition to 
the fine issued, the DPA prohibited video surveillance 
in  all  rooms  and  ordered  the  erasure  of  video 
recordings,  customer  health-related  data  and  any 
data generated from the recordings.

The  Hungarian  DPA  received  several  complaints 
concerning the processing practice of a retail chain 
in  relation  to  the  purchase  of  alcoholic  drinks.  
When  purchasing  alcoholic  drinks  in  the  shop  of 
the  chain,  buyers  regardless  of  being  of  legal  age 
to  purchase  alcohol  were  mandated  to  provide 
an  ID  card  with  a  photograph.  The  complainants 
argued that privacy statements were not provided 
to  them  upon  their  request  and  hence  the  legal 

46

EDPB Annual Report 2023basis of processing and its duration was unknown 
to the customers in relation to the recording of birth 
dates.  In  its  decision,  the  DPA  held  that  the  data 
controller infringed the principles of transparency 
and  data  minimisation  under  Art.  5(1)(a)  and  (c) 
GDPR,  as  well  as  violated  Arts.  12  and  13  GDPR 
in  the  context  of  informing  the  data  subjects.  
Finally, the data controller did not have a legal basis 
for processing under Art. 6 GDPR and failed to apply 
data security measures pursuant to Art. 32(1) and (4) 
GDPR. As a result, the data controller was issued a  
fine of HUF 95 million (approximately €248,732) and 
was ordered to review its age verification practice and 
display a privacy notice at its premises.

3.4.14. 

ICELAND

In  2023,  the  Icelandic  DPA  carried  out  127 
investigations, received 105 complaints, and imposed 
12 sanctions, corresponding to €537,000 in fines.

In October 2021, the EDPB selected the use of cloud 
services in the public sector for its 2022 Coordinated 
Enforcement Action. The Icelandic DPA decided to 
investigate the use of cloud services in elementary 
schools  within  the  five  largest  municipalities  in 
the  country  as  part  of  this  coordinated  action.  
The  municipality  of  Kópavogur  was  issued  a  fine 
of  €26,675  for  the  processing  of  personal  data 
within the Seesaw educational system for multiple 
violations against GDPR provisions, notably failure 
to  demonstrate  a  legal  basis  for  all  processing 
operations (Art. 6 GDPR), failure to comply with the 
principles  relating  to  processing  of  personal  data 
(Art. 5 (a), (b), and (c)) and data transfers to the United 
States without appropriate safeguards (Arts. 44 and  
46 GDPR), among other breaches.

The Icelandic DPA imposed its most significant fine 
to  date,  corresponding  to  €244,933,  to  Creditinfo, 
a  service  provider  for  credit  information  and  risk 
management  solutions.  The  company  failed  to 

comply  with  the  obligation  to  process  personal 
data  lawfully,  fairly,  and  in  a  transparent  manner 
by  recording  defaults  deriving  from  short-term 
loan  providers  without  the  necessary  loan  terms 
being  presented  (Arts.  5(1)(a)  and  5(2)  GDPR).  
The company also failed to demonstrate a legal basis 
for their processing operations by registering claims 
in their default registry that were below the required 
minimum amount (Art. 6(1) GDPR).

The 
Icelandic  DPA  considered  the  following 
aggravating  factors  in  the  case:  (1)  the  number  of 
registered  data  subjects;  (2)  the  fact  that  the  data 
processing  was  related  to  the  firm’s  core  business; 
(3) the fact that the data processing was intended to 
generate profit; (4) the delay in deleting registrations 
after  the  unlawful  processing  was  revealed;  
and (5) the severe nature and consequences of the 
processing for the data subjects.

3.4.15. 

IRELAND

In 2023, the Irish DPA (Data Protection Commission, 
or  ‘DPC’)  handled  2,600  complaints,  issued  19 
compliance  orders  and  adopted  six  national  fines 
corresponding  to  €1,282,500  of  fines  in  total,  
in addition to over €1.5 billion in cross-border fines 
issued by the DPC in 2023.

In February, an inquiry was commenced by the Irish 
DPA after being notified by the Bank of Ireland 365 
(BOI) of a series of 10 data breaches relating to its 
banking app BOI365. The data breach notifications 
concerned individuals gaining unauthorised access 
to other people’s accounts via the app. The Irish DPA, 
after conducting its investigation, found that BOI had 
infringed its obligations under Arts. 5(1)(f) and 32(1) 
GDPR as the technical and organisation measures in 
place at the time were not sufficient to ensure the 
security of the personal data processed on the BOI365 
app. As a result, BOI was imposed a fine of €750,000.

47

EDPB Annual Report 2023In June, the Irish DPA conducted an inquiry following 
public  allegations  in  2021  that  the  Department 
of  Health  had  unlawfully  collected  and  processed 
personal data about plaintiffs and their families in 
special educational needs litigation. The Department 
told the Irish DPA that they processed this personal 
data  for  the  purposes  of  determining  whether  an 
approach  should  be  made  to  the  plaintiff  to  seek 
to settle the case. However, on the files examined 
the Irish DPA found evidence that the Department 
had infringed data protection law by asking broad 
questions that resulted in the provision of sensitive 
information about the private lives of plaintiffs and 
their families. Furthermore, the Irish DPA determined 
that  the  processing  of  information  obtained  in 
response  to  broad  scoping  questions  sent  to  the 
Health Service Executive for the purposes of seeking 
to settle a case was excessive and disproportionate 
to the aims pursued. Additionally, the processing for 
this reason was not necessary for the purposes of 
litigation. Therefore, the Irish DPA found that there 
was no lawful basis for this processing in the files 
examined, and that the Department had infringed 
the  principle  of  data  minimisation  by  processing 
the personal data. As a result, the Department was 
imposed  a  fine  of  €22,500  and  a  ban  on  further 
processing. During the inquiry itself, the Irish DPA 
found  infringements  of  transparency  obligations 
under the GDPR and of the requirements to process 
personal data securely. In addition to the fine and 
ban on processing outlined above, a reprimand was 
imposed for all the infringements.

Two months later, the Irish DPA instituted temporary 
bans on the Galway County Council, prohibiting the 
processing of personal data through CCTV cameras, 
ANPR cameras as well as through body-worn cameras.  
The Council was also issued a reprimand in respect of 
the Council’s violation of Art. 24 GDPR and an order to 
bring its processing into compliance with the GDPR. 
The Irish DPA came to this decision after examining 

a  number  of  the  Council’s  processing  operations 
including its use of CCTV cameras in public places 
for  inter  alia  the  purposes  of  prosecuting  crime. 
The Irish DPA found that the Council lacked a valid 
legal  basis  for  processing  personal  data  from  the 
cameras  and  failed  to  erect  appropriately  worded 
signage in respect of the processing of personal data 
via  the  CCTV  cameras  for  purposes  related  to  law 
enforcement.

3.4.16. 

ITALY

The Italian DPA, Garante per la protezione dei dati 
personali,  performed  investigations  into  several 
thousands  of  cases  in  2023.  It  also  received  over 
10,000 complaints, issued 221 compliance orders and 
adopted 146 sanctions corresponding to €25.2 million 
in fines. These relate, among others, to infringements 
of  data  subject  rights,  unlawful  telemarketing,  
and  data  breaches  affecting  public  and  private  
bodies.  Two  especially  noteworthy  cases  are 
presented in this section.

The  Italian  DPA  took  action  against  OpenAI,  
the US-based company behind ChatGPT. The Italian 
DPA  temporarily  limited  the  processing  of  data 
belonging to Italian users, following a reported data 
breach involving ChatGPT. It also initiated an inquiry 
into several points of concern: the lack of information 
to  users;  the  unclear  legal  basis  for  the  extensive 
collection and processing of personal data used to 
train the platform’s algorithms; the risks arising from 
the processing of inaccurate personal data; and the 
absence of an effective age verification mechanism. 
OpenAI took several steps in response to the Italian 
DPA’s  concerns,  such  as  updating  the  privacy 
policy  and  providing  opt-out  options  for  users;  
however,  additional  efforts  were  found  to  be 
necessary  regarding  age  verification.  This  led,  
among other things, to the setting up of an ad-hoc 
task force by the EDPB to address such issues in a 
coordinated manner at the EEA level.

48

EDPB Annual Report 2023In  another  case,  several  measures  against 
aggressive  telemarketing  practices  were  taken 
by  the  Italian  DPA.  The  measures  encompassed 
three  significant  interventions  that  resulted  from 
distinct  investigations.  In  the  telecommunications 
sector, a TELCO operator was fined over €7 million.  
Similarly,  in  the  energy  sector,  two  companies 
received  fines  of  almost  €250,000  and  €700,000, 
respectively. In the case of TELCO, lack of oversight 
on  unauthorised  call  centres  not  affiliated 
with  their  official  network  was  a  key  concern.  
Additionally,  issues  related  to  the  exercise  of  data 
subjects’  rights  and  the  unauthorised  publication 
of  personal  data  in  public  telephone  directories 
were  raised.  A  national  Code  of  Conduct  was  also 
adopted to regulate telemarketing and teleselling 
activities. The Code envisages specific commitments 
such as obtaining explicit consent for each purpose 
of  data  processing,  providing  clear  and  precise 
information  to  individuals  regarding  the  intended 
use of their data, and guaranteeing the exercise of 
privacy rights (right to object, right to rectification).  
Furthermore,  the  Code  requires  that  contracts 
between  operators  and  service  providers  should 
include  penalties  for  any  service  sales  that  are 
conducted without obtaining proper consent from 
customers.

3.4.17. 

LATVIA

In 2023, the Latvian DPA, the Data State Inspectorate 
of  Latvia,  performed  over  850  investigations.  
It  also  received  733  complaints,  issued  195  
compliance  orders  and  adopted  three  sanctions 
corresponding  to  €22,900  in  fines.  The  cases 
presented in this section focus mainly on the unlawful 
processing of personal data and the use of cookies.

The  Latvian  DPA  identified  non-compliance  with 
GDPR requirements in a case related to the use of 
cookies on a website. After repeated inspections by 

the DPA, it was concluded that the data controller 
did  not  provide  clear,  user-understandable,  
and  comprehensive 
information  about  the 
types  of  cookies  used  and  their  purposes  on  its 
website.  Indeed,  users  were  unable  to  source  this 
information from the informational warning banner,  
the pop-up window, as well as the Cookie Policy. As a 
result of these significant deficiencies, the controller 
was imposed an administrative fine of €20,000.

In another case, the Latvian DPA issued a reprimand 
to a general practitioner for the unlawful processing 
of personal health data. The DPA received a complaint 
from an individual who discovered that their personal 
data  had  been  accessed  over  30  times  by  a  staff 
member of a general practitioner’s practice in the 
unified health information system. The unauthorised 
access  involved  obtaining  information  about  the 
individual’s medical history, prescribed medications, 
and more. Following Art. 18 of the Law on General 
Practitioners,  the  Latvian  DPA  held  the  general 
practitioner  responsible  for  the  activities  of  its 
personnel.

3.4.18. 

LIECHTENSTEIN

A total of 23 investigations were performed by the 
Liechtenstein DPA in 2023. It received 43 complaints, 
issued  22  compliance  orders  and  adopted  one 
sanction corresponding to €500 in fines relating to the 
controller’s refusal to cooperate with the authority. 
Two cases are presented in this section.

In 2023, the Liechtenstein DPA received a complaint 
regarding the Electronic Health Records, in particular 
its legal basis (opt-in versus opt-out) for processing 
personal  data,  the  right  to  information  under  
Art. 13 GDPR as well as security safeguards. In this  
case,  the  DPA  concluded  that  the  national  Law 
on  Electronic  Health  Records  which  stipulates  an 
automatic establishment of electronic health records 
with the option for every data subject to opt-out,  

49

EDPB Annual Report 2023is  legitimate  and  constitutes  a  valid  legal  basis 
for  the  data  processing  under  Art.  6(1)(e)  GDPR.  
However, the national law further provided for the 
processing  of  health  data  for  scientific  research.  
The  Liechtenstein  DPA  concluded  that  for  such 
processing the latter did not constitute a legitimate 
legal basis as in this specific case only consent could be 
considered legitimate. Accordingly, the Liechtenstein 
DPA banned the processing for such purposes and 
ordered the competent Ministry to amend the law in 
this regard. Regarding the right to information laid 
down in Art. 13 GDPR, weaknesses were established,  
however  these  were  remediated  during  the 
proceedings. Finally, the Liechtenstein DPA decided 
that the safeguards put in place corresponded to the 
state of the art.

The  Liechtenstein  DPA  also  received  a  complaint 
regarding  online  job  interviews. The  complainant 
argued that there was no legal basis as they did not 
have a real choice between an online interview and 
an interview on the premises. The Liechtenstein DPA 
concluded that for such processing the data subject 
needs  to  freely  give  their  consent  under  Art.  6(1)
(a) and Art. 7 GDPR, and the data controller needs 
to  prove  that  this  consent  was  indeed  provided. 
However, in this case, the supposed consent was only 
given orally, and the data controller could not prove it. 
Thereby, the Liechtenstein DPA concluded a violation 
of Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR.

3.4.19. 

LITHUANIA 

In 2023, the Lithuanian DPA handled 1,221 complaints 
of  individuals,  47  of  them  were  resolved  by  an 
amicable settlement, performed 46 investigations, 
finished  95  monitoring  procedures,  received  and 
investigated  254  notifications  of  personal  data 
breaches. Lithuanian DPA imposed 13 fines, the total 
amount of which is € 64,060. Three noteworthy cases 
are presented further.

On  20  April,  the  Lithuanian  DPA  investigated  a 
personal data breach in the information system of 
a  private  company  providing  cleanliness  services.  
The  company  was  fined  €20,000  for  failing  to 
comply  with  the  data  storage  time  limitation  and 
confidentiality principles laid down in Art. 5(1)(e) and 
(f), Art. 31(1)(b) and (d) GDPR.

On  11  September,  the  Lithuanian  DPA  issued 
administrative fines to a private healthcare company 
and  a  doctor  working  there  for  publishing  a 
patient’s photographs on a social network, thereby 
violating Art. 5(a) and (f), Art. 6(1) and Art. 9(2) GDPR.   
The doctor was fined €840, while the private health 
care company received a fine of €6,000.

On  6  December,  the  Lithuanian  DPA  investigated 
a  complaint  concerning  the  non-implementation 
of the right to erasure and the unlawful processing 
of  the  complainant’s  personal  data  (videos)  on  an 
Instagram account managed by a private company. 
The data controller affirmed that the complainant’s 
data  would  be  erased  only  if  compensation  was 
provided to the company for financial losses related 
to the removal of the records. However, the Lithuanian 
DPA argued that compensation for damages suffered 
by  the  data  controller  does  not  constitute  a  valid 
condition for withdrawal of consent. The Lithuanian 
DPA  concluded  that  the  data  controller  violated  
Art. 5(1)(a), Art. 12 and Art. 17(1) GDPR and ordered 
the company to delete the videos of the applicant 
from the company’s Instagram account.

3.4.20. 

LUXEMBOURG 

The  Luxembourgish  DPA  received  552  complaints 
in 2023, and as a result thereof performed a total of 
21 investigations. It issued three compliance orders 
and seven reprimands, along with three sanctions 
totalling €6,500. Two national cases handled by the 
Luxembourgish  DPA  in  2023  are  presented  in  this 
section.

50

EDPB Annual Report 2023A data controller offering electronic communication 
services  was  issued  an  administrative  fine  of 
€1,500  for  violating  Art.  13(1)(e)  and  Art.  24(1) 
GDPR. The Luxembourgish DPA concluded that the 
controller had failed to provide information about 
the recipients of the personal data. In its decision,  
the  Luxembourgish  DPA  ordered  the  controller  to 
bring its processing operations into compliance with  
Art.  24(1)  GDPR,  notably  by  putting  in  place 
appropriate technical and organizational measures to 
guarantee that the data processor ceases the transfer 
of the complainant’s data to a third party.

In  another  national  case,  the  Luxembourgish  DPA 
concluded that the geo-tracking system put in place 
by a data controller violated Art. 5(1)(b) and Art. 13 
GDPR.  Ultimately,  the  data  controller  was  issued 
an  administrative  fine  amounting  to  €2,500  and 
was ordered to bring its processing operations into 
compliance with Art. 13 GDPR. The DPA particularly 
required that the data controller individually informs 
the employees in a clear and precise manner about 
the geo-tracking system.

3.4.21.  MALTA

In 2023, the Maltese DPA performed 67 investigations, 
received  1,025  complaints  and  adopted  three 
sanctions corresponding to €32,500 in fines relating 
to the infringement of data protection rights.

Three cases are presented in this section.

In  2023,  the  Maltese  DPA  saw  an  exponential  rise 
in  the  number  of  data  protection  complaints,  
with an increase of 400 complaints over the previous 
year. Most of these complaints pertained to alleged 
infringements of data protection rights, in particular, 
the  right  of  access  laid  down  in  Art.  15  GDPR.  
The majority of these complaints were lodged against 
companies operating in the online gaming industry. 
This  increase  was  also  reflected  in  the  number  of 

complaints received pursuant to Art. 60 GDPR, with an 
increase of Art. 63 GDPR complaints over the previous 
year. However, the number of personal data breaches 
notified in accordance with Art. 33(1) GDPR remained 
consistent  with  the  previous  year.  The  breaches 
which were most notified related to the unauthorised 
access to, or disclosure of personal data as a result of  
cyber-attacks suffered by controllers.

In  March  2023,  the  Maltese  DPA  imposed  an 
administrative fine of €20,000 on the public authority 
responsible for transport in Malta. The data controller 
notified the Maltese DPA of a personal data breach 
following a hacking attack, which affected all of its 
IT  systems  and  resulted  in  299,321  compromised 
records. The Maltese DPA found that the controller 
infringed  Art.  32(1)  and  (2)  GDPR  for  failing  to 
implement  appropriate  security  measures  and  to 
consider the risks presented by the processing.

Two  months  later,  the  Maltese  DPA  imposed 
another fine of €5,000 on a public authority which 
unlawfully recorded the private conversations of its 
employees by means of a CCTV camera installed at 
the workplace. The Maltese DPA found that the data 
controller processed the audio recordings without a 
valid lawful basis and ordered the data controller to 
stop the processing operation without undue delay. 
These two fines were imposed in line with national 
legislation  which  was  introduced  to  implement 
the provisions of the Regulation, more specifically, 
pursuant  to  Art.  21  of  the  Data  Protection  Act  
(Cap. 586 of the Laws of Malta).

In  August  2023,  the  Maltese  DPA  ordered  an  
insurance company to revise its policy’s terms and 
conditions  together  with  the  claim  form,  after  it 
uncovered that the data controller was requesting 
the data subjects to submit a copy of test results for 
the purpose of processing a refund for a health claim. 
The Maltese DPA concluded that the data controller 
infringed the principle of data minimisation when 

51

EDPB Annual Report 2023it requested individuals to submit a copy of the test 
results in a general and indiscriminate manner.

3.4.22.  NETHERLANDS

The  Dutch  DPA  finalised  16  investigations  in 
2023  and  recorded  a  total  of  12,342  complaints.  
Furthermore, three decisions imposing compliance 
orders  were  issued  by  the  DPA  along  with 
eight  decisions  imposing  financial  sanctions 
corresponding to €243,160,000 in fines.  These relate, 
amongst others, to the legal basis for the processing 
of personal data, insufficient transparency about data 
processing, security of data processing, processing of 
personal data by governmental institutions, and data 
protection impact assessments.

In  2023,  the  Dutch  DPA  was  designated  by  a 
parliamentary mandate as the coordinating authority 
regarding algorithm supervision in the Netherlands. 
This task was allocated to the Dutch DPA with a view 
to  better  protect  public  values  and  fundamental 
rights  when  developing  and  using  algorithms  in 
general,  including  the  use  of  AI.  The  focus  is  to 
prevent  discrimination,  arbitrariness  and  promote 
transparency,  as  well  as  examine  the  fairness  of 
algorithms  and  avert  the  spread  of  deceptive  or 
misleading information.

In July 2023, the Netherlands Employees Insurance 
Agency  (UWV)  which  handles  unemployment 
benefits, informed the Dutch DPA that it had illegally 
collected  data  from  benefit  recipients. The  usage 
behaviour of these recipients on the UWV’s website 
was continuously monitored by the agency, with the 
underlying goal of investigating whether they were 
illegally  staying  abroad  while  receiving  benefits.  
UWV  recognised  its  violation  of  the  GDPR  and 
indicated that it stopped the data processing after 
legal  consultation.  The  Dutch  DPA  ordered  the 
UWV  to  take  the  necessary  steps  to  inform  those 
involved  that  their  data  was  wrongfully  used.  

Additionally, UWV agreed on the instigation of the 
Dutch DPA that all past and ongoing benefits fraud 
investigations (703 cases in total) that were linked 
to  this  breach  would  be  reviewed.  In  this  regard,  
it was established that several individuals had indeed 
sustained damage and consequently the UWV was 
ordered to compensate them.

The Dutch DPA’s recent audits and inspections of the 
SIS and VIS revealed shortcomings in the legitimacy 
of processing personal data in the N-SIS and national 
case  management  systems  that  are  connected  to 
the  VIS.  As  a  follow-up,  enhancement  programs 
were  agreed  with  the  relevant  data  controllers 
and processors, the implementation of which was 
closely monitored by the Dutch DPA. The identified 
shortcomings were sufficiently addressed, and the 
programs were completed with satisfactory results in 
2023.

3.4.23.  NORWAY

In  2023,  the  Norwegian  DPA  carried  out  119 
investigations on matters related to: a) individual’s 
right to information, access and erasure in relation to 
a business’ processing of customer data, b) unlawful 
access of email-accounts and c) security of personal 
data processing. It received 591 complaints, issued 23 
compliance  orders  and  adopted  seven  sanctions 
corresponding  to  approximately  €8.5  million  in 
fines. In one case, a coercive fine of €7.1 million was 
imposed on a company, in line with the Norwegian 
Personal Data Act.

In  cooperation  with  the  Swedish,  Danish  and 
Finnish  DPAs,  through  the  OSS  mechanism,  
the Norwegian DPA serving as LSA imposed a hefty 
fine on the Nordic fitness chain SATS. The chain was 
issued a fine of €850,000 for having violated multiple 
GDPR  provisions,  notably  the  individuals’  right  to 
information, access and erasure and failing to identify 
a legal basis for processing certain personal data.

52

EDPB Annual Report 2023In  July,  the  Norwegian  DPA  urgently  imposed  a 
temporary ban on Meta IE. The ban was related to 
the  company’s  practice  on  behavioural  marketing 
on Facebook and Instagram, which the Norwegian 
DPA  considered  to  be  illegal. The  Norwegian  DPA 
issued Meta IE a coercive fine of €7.1 million for failing 
to comply with the ban, pursuant to the Norwegian 
Personal Data Act. Additionally, the Norwegian DPA 
opted to elevate the case to the European level and 
requested an urgent binding decision from the EDPB. 
In November, the EDPB decided that the Norwegian 
ban  on  behavioural  marketing  on  Facebook  and 
Instagram should become permanent and extend to 
the entire EU/EEA.

3.4.24.  POLAND

In  2023,  the  Polish  DPA  actively  performed  46 
investigations which resulted in the issuance of 31 
compliance orders and the adoption of 24 sanctions 
corresponding to €213,820 in fines. It received a total 
of 5,288 complaints. This section takes a closer look at 
two relevant cases from 2023.

In the case involving a failure to notify a personal 
data  breach  affecting  the  rights  and  freedoms 
of  natural  persons,  the  Polish  DPA  issued  a  fine 
of  €22,000. The  Polish  DPA  was  informed  that  an 
unauthorised recipient had received a document in 
an  email  attachment  from  an  insurance  company, 
Link4  Towarzystwo  Ubezpieczeń  S.A.,  containing 
personal  data  such  as  first  name,  last  name,  
mailing address, registration number of the car and 
value or amount of the claim awarded. The insurer  
had  made  a  risk  analysis  based  on  ENISA’s 
recommended  methodology  and  the  analysis 
showed low risk to the rights of individuals, thereby it 
resigned from notifying the breach to the Polish DPA. 
The Polish DPA stated, however, that in the case there 
was an obligation of such a notification and therefore 
there was a violation of the GDPR provisions.

Link: https://www.uodo.gov.pl/en/553/1581

The Polish DPA imposed another significant fine in 
2023 for the failure to notify a personal data breach 
to the supervisory authority. This case concerns an 
incident where a local journalist who after receiving 
non-anonymised  documentation  from  the  District 
Public  Prosecutor’s  Office,  proceeded  to  publish 
the documents on a local website. This resulted in a 
breach of the confidentiality of individuals’ data as 
the documents had been improperly anonymised. 
Taking into account the wide range of data disclosed, 
the  Polish  DPA  imposed  an  administrative  fine  of 
€4,500 on the District Prosecutor’s Office for failing to 
notify the personal data breach to the Polish DPA and 
the concerned individuals. The data controller was 
ordered to rectify this by promptly communicating 
the breach to the individuals affected.

Link: https://www.uodo.gov.pl/en/553/1501

3.4.25.  PORTUGAL

In  2023,  the  Portuguese  DPA  initiated  1,818 
investigation procedures, performed 45 inspection 
actions,  received  1,188  complaints,  issued  three 
compliance  orders  and  adopted  52  sanctions,  
which includes four reprimands and 48 fines, in the 
total  amount  of  €367,450.  These  relate  mostly  to 
the  non-compliance  of  data  protection  principles, 
particularly  the  lawfulness  of  data  processing, 
violations  of  data  subjects’  rights  requests,  
undue disclosure of personal data on the Internet, 
including sensitive data, and non-compliance with 
GDPR provisions related to data protection officer 
(DPO). Two kinds of cases are presented in this section.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, some municipalities 
disclosed  information  on  the  Internet  related  to 
people  diseased  and/or  recovered,  which  were 
allegedly anonymised. However, the individuals were 
identifiable, which meant that sensitive personal data 
was made publicly available. Such data processing 
had  no  legal  ground,  and  considering  all  the 

53

EDPB Annual Report 2023circumstances of the case, the Portuguese DPA issued 
reprimands to sanction this infringement.

In other cases, the Portuguese DPA issued a significant 
number  of  fines  for  the  failure  to  appoint  a  DPO, 
the  lack  of  notification  of  the  DPO’s  identification 
and contacts to the supervisory authority, and the 
organisation’s neglect to publish the DPO’s contact 
details.

3.4.26.  ROMANIA

The  Romanian  DPA  received  4,092  complaints  in 
2023  concerning  infringements  of  several  GDPR 
provisions such as lack of legal basis and violations 
of  principles  for  the  processing  of  personal  data, 
such as confidentiality and security rules. As a result 
of  the  latter,  the  Romanian  DPA  performed  424 
investigations, applied 22 reprimands, and issued 68 
fines corresponding to a total amount of €444,622.

In  2023,  the  Romanian  DPA  was  contacted  by 
the  Hungarian  DPA  through  the  OSS  mechanism 
to  act  as  LSA  in  a  case  against  the  controller, 
Dante  International  SA,  given  that  the  company’s 
headquarters were in Romania. After investigating 
complaints  submitted  by  three  natural  persons,  
the Romanian DPA concluded that the data controller 
had  breached  Art.  12(2)  and  Art.  17(1)  GDPR  by 
failing  to  facilitate  the  exercise  of  individuals’ 
rights  and  to  delete  personal  data  without  undue 
delay.  Furthermore,  since  the  company’s  website 
did  not  contain  sufficient  information  regarding 
data  transfers  to  third  countries,  the  controller 
was  deemed  to  have  infringed  Art.  13(1)(c),  
(e) and (f), as well as Art. 14 (1)(c), (e) and (f) GDPR.  
Lastly, the data controller breached Art. 6 (1)(a) GDPR 
given that it continued to process the email address 
of  an  individual  subsequent  to  the  request  for  its 
rectification and without their consent. The company 
was issued a global fine of €40,000 for its violations 
and received a reprimand. The Romanian DPA also 
imposed several corrective measures. 

In  another  case,  a  company  named  Uipath  SRL, 
notified the Romanian DPA of a significant breach 
of  confidentiality  of  personal  data. The  Romanian 
DPA established that the data of over 600,000 users 
from 258 States (out of which 76,095 data subjects 
were from EU Member States) had been published 
on  a  website.  The  occurrence  of  this  incident 
was  facilitated  by  the  data  controller’s  failure  to 
implement adequate security measures for its data 
storing  spaces,  thereby  allowing  unauthorised  
access to the personal data of its users. As a result,  
the data controller was issued a fine of €70,000.

In  October  2023,  the  data  controller  Rompetrol 
Downstream  SRL  was  imposed  a  fine  of  €110,000 
for  the  breach  of  Art.  32(4)  in  conjunction  with 
Art.  32(1)(b)  and  (2)  GDPR,  as  well  as  Art.  58(2)
(i)  and  Art.  83(4)(a)  GDPR.  According  to  the  case 
facts,  the  company  failed  to  take  measures  to 
ensure  that  any  natural  person  acting  under  the 
authority of the data controller and that had access 
to personal data processed it solely at its request.  
Additionally, the data controller did not implement 
adequate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure a level of security corresponding to the risk of 
the processing, including the ability to guarantee the 
confidentiality, integrity, availability and continuous 
resistance of the processing systems and services. 
These shortcomings led to the unauthorised access of 
the personal data of 12 data subjects.

3.4.27. 

SLOVENIA

The  Slovenian  DPA  handled  several  cases  in  2023 
related  to  the  unlawful  disclosure  of  personal 
data  to  unauthorised  users,  unlawful  publication, 
and  collection  of  personal  data  as  well  as  illegal 
video  surveillance  and  unlawful  processing  in 
direct  marketing.  In  total  the  DPA  performed 
702  investigations,  received  260  complaints,  
received  183  data  breach  notifications,  issued 

54

EDPB Annual Report 202374  compliance  orders  and  adopted  77  sanctions 
corresponding to €56,910 in fines. The issued fines 
in 2023 relate to breaches of both the national data 
protection  act  and  the  GDPR.  Additionally,  the 
Slovenian  DPA  issued  60  warnings,  which  are  not 
considered as a sanction under Slovenian law.

The Slovenian DPA issued a prohibition to process 
personal  data  to  delivery  companies  for  failing 
to  demonstrate  why  their  processing  activities 
were  necessary  to  comply  with  road  traffic  rules.  
According  to  the  Slovenian  DPA,  the  companies 
marked  the  bags  of  deliverers  with  identification 
numbers,  visible  to  the  public.  The  purpose  of 
this  measure,  according  to  the  data  controllers 
was  to  ensure  compliance  with  road  traffic  rules, 
notably  facilitating  controls  by  traffic  wardens 
and  the  police  in  the  event  of  infringements.  
However, the data controllers did not provide a legal 
basis for this purpose.

In  a  second  case,  the  Slovenian  DPA  assessed  the 
lawfulness  of  video  surveillance  in  a  restaurant. 
The  data  controller  was  inter  alia  recording  food 
preparation  and  guest  tables  and  subsequently 
transmitting  the  live  image  via  their  website.  
The  Slovenian  DPA  established  that  the  data 
controller  had  not  demonstrated  the  lawfulness 
of  video  surveillance  in  the  working  premises,  
as the recording was not strictly necessary for the 
security of persons and property, and the purpose 
of protection was already achieved by other means.  
Furthermore,  no  legitimate  interest  had  been 
demonstrated.  In  light  of  this,  the  Slovenian  DPA 
prohibited the transmission of the live image as well 
as the video surveillance of the area where food is 
prepared and where guests are served.

Finally,  the  Slovenian  DPA  received  a  complaint 
from an individual concerning a public authority’s 
refusal to fulfil the persons’ request for the deletion 

of personal data from an online registry. The registry 
included  information  about  the  complainant’s 
permanent  and  temporary  residence  country.  
The  DPA  concluded  that  no  legal  basis  for  the 
publication of this data existed, and consequently 
held the public authority responsible for the violation 
of Art. 6 and Art. 17 GDPR. The data controller was 
ordered  to  make  the  applicant’s  permanent  and 
temporary  residence  address  inaccessible  to  the 
public on its website.

3.4.28. 

SPAIN

In  2023,  the  Spanish  DPA  performed  291 
investigations,  received  18,879  complaints,  
issued  266  compliance  orders  and  adopted  367 
sanctions  corresponding  to  €29,817,410  of  fines 
relating. These relate among other, to personal data 
breaches concerning large companies such as Telcos 
and  financial  institutions,  infringements  related 
to  data  subject  rights,  fraud  in  service  contracts,  
debt management, etc.

In  2023,  the  Spanish  DPA  handled  several  cases.  
A few cases of particular importance are presented in 
this section.

The  Spanish  DPA  dealt  with  a  case  involving  the 
theft of an individual’s purse, including their mobile 
phone, ID card and other documents containing their 
personal data. The Spanish DPA established that upon 
communicating this theft to the bank, the bank failed 
to prevent the impersonation of the person’s identity 
and  the  contracting  of  various  financial  products,  
as  well  as  the  inclusion  of  the  claimant  in  a  file 
of  defaulters.  As  a  result,  the  bank  was  issued  a 
total fine of €1.64 million for the infringements of  
Arts. 6(1), 32 and 25 GDPR. The fine was later reduced 
to €1,184,000.

A company named OPENBANK was issued a fine of 
€2,500,000 for its failure to enable secure means of 

55

EDPB Annual Report 2023In  another  case,  an  insurance  company  Moderna 
Försäkringar was held responsible for failing to take 
appropriate  technical  measures  to  ensure  a  level 
of security commensurate with the perceived risk.  
IMY found that on the company’s web page with price 
quotes, there were clickable links with URLs that led to 
documents with insurance information and that it was 
possible to access other policyholders’ documents, 
without any kind of login, by simply replacing a few 
numbers in the web link. IMY could conclude that it 
was possible to access data of 650,000 customers. 
Among this data, there were health data and other 
data such as financial information, contact details, 
social  security  numbers  and  insurance  holdings.  
The data controller was issued an administrative fine 
of approximately €3 million.

Finally, the Swedish DPA imposed a fine of €70,000 on 
a municipal school in Stockholm for the infringement 
of Arts. 5 and 6 GDPR. According to the Swedish DPA’s 
investigation of camera surveillance in schools since 
the implementation of the GDPR, the use of cameras 
by the municipal school during working hours was 
justified in certain places to address current problems 
with arson. However, it ordered the school to stop 
recording  in  other  areas  during  the  daytime  as  it 
violated GDPR principles.

communication  to  provide  documentation  with 
personal data of financial nature. According to the 
case  facts,  the  documentation  at  stake  contained 
financial data related to the economic situation of 
the company’s clients. The infringements identified 
in this case by the data controller pertained to Art. 25 
and Art. 32 GDPR.

Lastly, the Spanish DPA imposed a fine of €50,000 
on  a  data  controller  for  its  non-compliance 
with  an  access  request  to  the  records  and  logs 
generated  by  an  alarm  device  installed  by  the 
company in a customer’s home. The claimant who 
suffered a theft had requested the data controller 
SECURITAS DIRECT ESPAÑA S.A. to provide all logs.  
Nevertheless, the data controller only provided those 
that it considered to be personal data and claimed 
“trade secret” as a justification. However, in addition 
to  the  fine,  the  Spanish  DPA  ordered  the  data 
controller to respond to individual’s right of access.

3.4.29. 

SWEDEN

In 2023, the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection 
(Integritetsskyddsmyndigheten,  ‘IMY’)  received 
a  total  of  3,553  complaints  and  launched  210 
investigations. During 2023 the Swedish DPA have 
issued 11 administrative fines. The total amount of 
these fines is approximately €10,780,000.

A  fine  of  approximately  €5  million  was  imposed 
by  the  Swedish  DPA  on  the  digital  music  service 
Spotify for violating their customers’ right to access 
personal data under Art. 15 GDPR. While the Swedish 
DPA’s audit revealed that Spotify had released the 
processed  personal  data  upon  the  request  of  its 
customers, it nevertheless neglected to provide clear 
information about how the data was used. This case 
was dealt with through the OSS mechanism with the 
Swedish DPA as LSA and all other DPAs as CSAs.

56

EDPB Annual Report 20234.  ANNEXES 

4.1.  DPA BUDGET AND STAFF

Each year, the EDPB gathers statistics on resources 
made available by Member States to the DPAs from 
the EEA. On 15 December 2023, at its last plenary for 
the year, the EDPB adopted its Contribution to the 
European Commission’s report on the application of 
the GDPR under Art. 97, in which these statistics are 
detailed.

The EDPB called on Member States to make sure that 
all DPAs have the necessary resources to carry out 
their  tasks  effectively,  as  there  are  considerable 
challenges  ahead.  First  and  foremost,  the 
continuously  evolving  technological  landscape 
presents  new  data  protection  challenges.  
New  legislation  is  also  considered  or  has  been 
introduced,  providing  additional  rules  to  create  a 
safer digital space and to establish a level playing 
field for businesses in the digital economy, such as 
the Digital Markets Act (DMA), the Digital Services 
Act,  the  Data  Governance  Act  or  the  proposal 
for  an  AI  Act.  These  new  legislations  may  place 
additional  responsibilities  on  DPAs  or  the  EDPB 
with  regard  to  enforcement  and  supervision.  
In addition, both the EDPB’s and DPAs’ tasks under 
the  GDPR  continue  at  an  increased  intensity.  
Moreover,  increased  enforcement  cooperation 
among  DPAs,  which  in  turn  leads  to  higher 
involvement  of  the  EDPB,  has  had  a  significant 
impact    on  the  workload.  The  success  in  the  
performance  of  these  tasks  relies  largely  on  the 
resources  available  to  the  DPAs  and  to  the  EDPB, 
including via its Secretariat.

Most DPAs (21) explicitly stated that their allocated 
budget  was  not  sufficient  for  carrying  out  their 
activities,  while  other  DPAs  considered  they  had 
sufficient financial resources. Based on information  

provided by 28 DPAs from EEA countries, some DPAs 
have  barely  seen  a  budgetary  increase  between 
2020 and 2024, and one DPA (EL) saw a budgetary 
decrease.

In terms of human resources, the vast majority of 
DPAs (25) stated that current staffing is not sufficient 
to face their workload. 7 DPAs still have the same 
number of staff members in 2023 as in 2022, despite 
the increasing workload.

4.2.  GENERAL GUIDANCE ADOPTED IN 2023

General  guidance  drafted  in  2023  before 
public consultation
•  Guidelines  01/2023  on  Article  37  Law 
Enforcement Directive, adopted: 19 September 
2023;

•  Guidelines  2/2023  on  Technical  Scope  of 
Art.  5(3)  of  ePrivacy  Directive,  adopted:  14 
November 2023.

General  guidance  adopted  in  2023  after 
public consultation
•  Guidelines  03/2021  on  the  application  of 
Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, adopted: 24 May 2023;
•  Guidelines 05/2021 on the Interplay between 
the application of Article 3 and the provisions  
on 
per  
Chapter V of the GDPR, adopted: 14 February 
2023;

international 

transfers 

as 

•  Guidelines  01/2022  on  data  subject  rights  - 

Right of access, adopted: 28 March 2023;

57

•  Guidelines  03/2022  on  deceptive  design 
patterns  in  social  media  platform  interfaces: 
how to recognise and avoid them, adopted: 14 
February 2023;

•  Guidelines  04/2022  on  the  calculation  of 
administrative fines under the GDPR, adopted: 
24 May 2023;

•  Guidelines  05/2022  on  the  use  of  facial 
recognition  technology  in  the  area  of  law 
enforcement, adopted: 26 April 2023;

•  Guidelines 07/2022 on certification as a tool for 

transfers, adopted: 14 February 2023;

•  Guidelines  8/2022  on  identifying  a  controller 
lead  supervisory  authority, 

or  processor’s 
adopted: 28 March 2023;

•  Guidelines  9/2022  on  personal  data  breach 
notification  under  GDPR,  adopted:  28  March 
2023;

•  Recommendations  1/2022  on  the  Application 
for Approval and on the elements and principles 
to  be  found  in  Controller  Binding  Corporate 
Rules (Art. 47 GDPR), adopted: 20 June 2023.

4.3.  BINDING DECISIONS ADOPTED IN 2023
•  Urgent  Binding  Decision  01/2023  requested 
by the Norwegian SA for the ordering of final 
measures  regarding  Meta  Platforms  Ireland 
Ltd  (Art.  66(2)  GDPR),  adopted:  27  October  
2023;

•  Binding  Decision  1/2023  on  the  dispute 
submitted  by  the  Irish  SA  on  data  transfers  
by  Meta  Platforms  Ireland  Limited  for  its 
Facebook service (Art. 65 GDPR), adopted: 13 
April 2023;

•  Binding  Decision  2/2023  on  the  dispute 
submitted  by  the  Irish  SA  regarding  TikTok 

Technology Limited (Art. 65 GDPR), adopted: 2 
August 2023.

4.4.  CONSISTENCY OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 

2023

Opinions  on  DPA’s  approval  of  accreditation 
requirements for a code of conduct monitoring 
body
•  Opinion  1/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Croatia 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation of a code of conduct monitoring 
body  pursuant  to  Article  41  GDPR,  adopted:  
3 February 2023;

•  Opinion  02/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Latvia 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation of a code of conduct monitoring 
body  pursuant  to  Article  41  GDPR,  adopted:  
3 February 2023;

•  Opinion  03/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Romania 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation of a code of conduct monitoring 
body  pursuant  to  article  41  GDPR,  adopted:  
3 February 2023;

•  Opinion  11/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Sweden 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation of a code of conduct monitoring 
body  pursuant  to  article  41  GDPR,  adopted:  
11 July 2023.

Opinions  on  draft  requirements  for  the 
accreditation of a certification body
•  Opinion  4/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Malta 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 

58

EDPB Annual Report 2023accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Article 43.3 (GDPR), adopted: 3 February 2023;
•  Opinion  12/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Cyprus 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation  of  a  certification  body  pursuant 
to Article 43.3 (GDPR), adopted: 11 July 2023;
•  Opinion  13/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent  supervisory  authority  of  Croatia 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation  of  a  certification  body  pursuant 
to Article 43.3 (GDPR), adopted: 11 July 2023;
•  Opinion  37/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent supervisory authority of Luxemburg 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation  of  a  certification  body  pursuant 
to Article 43.3 (GDPR), adopted: 21 December 
2023;

•  Opinion  38/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
competent supervisory authority of Slovenian 
regarding the approval of the requirements for 
accreditation of a certification body pursuant to 
Art 43.3 (GDPR), adopted: 21 December 2023.

Opinions on draft decisions regarding Binding 
Corporate Rules
•  Opinion  6/2023  on 

the  draft  decision  
of the Danish Supervisory Authority regarding  
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  
Royal  Greenland  Group,  adopted:  23  March  
2023;

•  Opinion 7/2023 on the draft decision of the Irish 
Supervisory Authority regarding the Controller 
Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Autodesk  Group, 
adopted: 5 May 2023;

•  Opinion  8/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Irish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of Autodesk 
Group, adopted: 5 May 2023;

•  Opinion  9/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Italian  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  Vertiv, 
adopted: 17 May 2023;

•  Opinion  10/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Spanish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  
the  PROSEGUR  Group,  adopted:  30  June  
2023;

•  Opinion  14/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  
Vestas Wind Systems Group, adopted: 27 July 
2023;

•  Opinion  16/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Irish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Informatica  Group,  adopted:  28  September  
2023;

•  Opinion  17/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Irish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Informatica  Group,  adopted:  28  September 
2023;

•  Opinion  18/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Belgian  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Collibra Group, adopted: 7 November 2023;

•  Opinion  19/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Dutch  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
American Express Global Business Travel Group, 
adopted: 16 November 2023;

59

EDPB Annual Report 2023•  Opinion  20/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Dutch  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the  
Comcast  Corporation  Group,  adopted:  16 
November 2023;

•  Opinion  21/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Belgian  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the UPS 
Group, adopted: 16 November 2023;

•  Opinion  22/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Belgian  Supervisory  Authority  regarding 
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  for 
employee data of the UPS Group, adopted: 16 
November 2023;

•  Opinion  23/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Belgian  Supervisory  Authority  regarding 
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  for 
customer data of the UPS Group, adopted: 16 
November 2023;

•  Opinion  24/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Nestlé Group, adopted: 16 November 2023;

•  Opinion  25/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Dutch  Supervisory  Authority  regarding 
the  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  
the  SHV  Holding  N.V.  Group,  adopted:  16 
November 2023;

•  Opinion  26/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Romanian Supervisory Authority regarding the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the OSF 
Global  Services  Group,  adopted:  16  October 
2023;

•  Opinion  27/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the Tessi 
Group, adopted: 28 November 2023;

•  Opinion  28/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Servier Group, adopted: 28 November 2023;

•  Opinion  29/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Sodexo Group, adopted: 28 November 2023;

•  Opinion  30/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Sodexo Group, adopted: 28 November 2023;

•  Opinion  31/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Thalès Group, adopted: 28 November 2023;

•  Opinion  32/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
French  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the Thalès 
Group, adopted: 28 November 2023;

•  Opinion  33/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Hesse  Supervisory  Authority  (Germany) 
regarding  the  Controller  Binding  Corporate 
Rules  of  the  Cerner  Group,  adopted:  13 
December 2023;

•  Opinion  34/2023  on 

the  draft  decision  
of the Hesse Supervisory Authority (Germany) 
regarding  the  Processor  Binding  Corporate 
Rules  of  the  Cerner  Group,  adopted:  13 
December 2023;

•  Opinion  35/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Danish  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 
Carlsberg Group, adopted: 13 December 2023;
•  Opinion  36/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the 
Dutch  Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  of  the 

60

EDPB Annual Report 2023Booking.com  Group,  adopted:  28  December 
2023.

4.6.  OTHER DOCUMENTS

Opinions on certification criteria
•  Opinion  15/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of 
the  Dutch  Supervisory  Authority  regarding 
the  Brand  Compliance  certification  criteria, 
adopted: 19 September 2023.

4.5.  CONSULTATIONS RELATING TO 

LEGISLATION AND TO DRAFT 
ADEQUACY DECISIONS

•  EDPB-EDPS  Joint  Opinion  01/2023  on  the  
Proposal  for  a  Regulation  of  the  European 
Parliament  and  of  the  Council  laying  down 
additional  procedural  rules  relating  to  the 
enforcement  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679, 
adopted: 19 September 2023;

•  Joint  EDPB-EDPS  contribution  to  the  public 
consultation  on  the  draft  template  relating 
to  the  description  of  consumer  profiling 
techniques 
(Art.15  DMA),  adopted:  20 
September 2023;

•  EDPB-EDPS  Joint  Opinion  02/2023  on  the 
Proposal  for  a  Regulation  of  the  European 
Parliament  and  of 
the 
establishment of the digital euro, adopted: 17 
October 2023;

the  Council  on 

•  Opinion 5/2023 on the European Commission 
Draft Implementing Decision on the adequate 
protection  of  personal  data  under  the  EU-US 
Data Privacy Framework, adopted: 28 February 
2023.

Engagement and awareness raising
•  Data Protection Guide for Small Business.
Coordinated Enforcement Framework
•  Coordinated  Enforcement  Action,  use  of  

cloud-based services by the public sector.

International cooperation
•  Information  note  on  data  transfers  under  the 
GDPR to the United States after the adoption of 
the adequacy decision on 10 July 2023;

•  Statement  1/2023  on  the  first  review  of  the 
functioning of the adequacy decision for Japan.

Organisational nature
•  EDPB  Document  on  the  procedure  for  the 
adoption  of  the  EDPB  opinions  regarding 
national criteria for certification and European 
Data Protection Seals;

•  EDPB Work Programme 2023-2024.
Support to enforcement activities
•  Report of the work undertaken by the Cookie 

Banner Taskforce;

•  Report  of  the  work  undertaken  by  the 
supervisory  authorities  within  the  101  Task 
Force;

•  Template  Complaint 

form  and  Template 

Acknowledgement of receipt.

61

EDPB Annual Report 2023CONTACT DETAILS
Postal address

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels

Office address

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

An Executive Summary of this report, which provides an overview of key EDPB 
activities in 2023, is also available. Further details about the EDPB can be 
found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

