SAFEGUARDING 
INDIVIDUALS' DIGITAL 
RIGHTS

EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY

6

2023

INTRODUCTION 

In  2023,  the  EDPB  continued  giving 
important common interpretations of data 
protection law and key legal principles that 
shape the digital landscape. It also took a 
series  of  initiatives  to  boost  enforcement 
cooperation,  adopted  important  opinions 
on draft legislation and launched a Guide for 
Small Businesses. In May 2023, Anu Talus was 
elected as EDPB Chair for five years, taking 
over  from  Andrea  Jelinek,  who  was  Chair 
from 2018 until 2023.

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  is 
an  independent  European  body,  established  by 
the  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (GDPR),  
which aims to ensure the consistent application of 
data protection rules across the European Economic 
Area (EEA).  

1

The  EDPB  comprises  of  the  Heads  of  the  EU  Data 
Protection  Authorities  (DPAs)  and  the  European 
Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS). The DPAs of the 
EEA countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) 
are also members of the EDPB, although they do not 
have the right to vote. The European Commission and 
 – with regard to GDPR-related matters – the European 
Free Trade Association Surveillance Authority have 
the right to participate in the activities and meetings 
of the EDPB. The EDPB is based in Brussels. 

The EDPB has a Secretariat, which is provided by the 
EDPS. A Memorandum of Understanding determines 
the terms of cooperation between the EDPB and the 
EDPS.

HIGHLIGHTS 2023

MARCH 15

MAY 22

Launch of the 2023 Coordinated 
Enforcement Action, focusing on 
the designation and position of 

Data Protection O(cid:31)cers

€1.2 billion (cid:30)ne to Meta Ireland 
Limited issued by the Irish DPA 
following the EDPB's Binding 

Decision 1/2023

FEBRUARY 28

APRIL 27

MAY 25

Election of Anu Talus as the new 

Chair and Irene Loizidou Nikolaidou 

as the new Deputy Chair

Opinion 5/2023 on the draft 

adequacy decision regarding the 
EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework

Launch of the EDPB Data Protection 

Guide for Small Business

2

SEPTEMBER 15

OCTOBER 27

€345 million (cid:30)ne against TikTok 
Technology Limited by the Irish 
DPA, following EDPB's Binding 

Decision 2/2023

Urgent Binding Decision 01/2023 
instructing the Irish DPA to take, 
within two weeks, (cid:30)nal measures 
regarding Meta Ireland Limited

SEPTEMBER 19

EDPB/EDPS joint opinion on a 
Proposal for a Regulation laying 
down additional procedural rules 
relating to the enforcement of the 

GDPR

DECEMBER 12-13
Contribution to the European 
Commission's report on the 
application of the GDPR under 

Art. 97

3

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

1. 
The EDPB Secretariat supports the Board in drafting 
binding  decisions  and  in  defending  the  EDPB  in 
Court. It also contributes to the preparation of other 
EDPB documents, such as guidance and legal advice 
on new legislative proposals. It disseminates this work 
to the public, ensures press relations for the EDPB, 
and supports the Chair in her role of representing the 
Board. 

An  important  awareness-raising  action  for  which 
the EDPB Secretariat took the lead in 2023 was the 
publication of the Data Protection Guide for Small 
Business. The Guide is a key initiative in the EDPB’s 
2021-2023  Strategy.  It  aims  to  provide  practical 
information to SMEs about GDPR compliance in an 
accessible  and  easily  understandable  language.  
The guide helps raise awareness of the GDPR among 
SMEs and aims to facilitate compliance, via videos, 
flowcharts and practical tips.  

The EDPB Secretariat develops and runs the EDPB’s 
IT tools which are used by approximately 1500 staff 
members of EEA supervisory authorities. It organised 
over  360  EDPB  meetings  in  2023,  during  which 
members  prepare  the  EDPB  documents  aimed  at 
a consistent application of data protection laws in 
Europe. 

The  EDPB  Secretariat  is  now  also  providing 
the  secretariat  of  the  Coordinated  Supervisory 
Committee, which ensures coordinated supervision 
of large-scale IT systems and EU bodies and agencies. 
In  2023,  this  activity  extended  to  the  supervision 
of  the  Schengen  Information  System,  in  addition 
to the Europol, EPPO, Eurojust and Internal Market 
Information  (IMI)  system  that  were  already  falling 
under the framework of the EDPB activities. 

changes made in early 2023, the EDPB Secretariat 
is  now  composed  of  five  sectors.  This  structural 
improvement was necessary to address the growing 
workload of the EDPB.

2. 

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION 
BOARD - ACTIVITIES IN 2023

The EDPB’s goal is to ensure a consistent application 
and enforcement of data protection law across the 
European Economic Area, EEA. 

To  this  end,  the  EDPB  adopts  binding  decisions 
to  settle  disputes  on  GDPR  enforcement,  issues 
guidance to clarify and promote compliance of EU 
data protection law, and adopts opinions to ensure 
the  consistency  of  the  activities  of  the  DPAs  or  to 
advise the European Commission on any issue related 
to the protection of personal data.  

In 2023, the EDPB adopted two binding decisions and  
one urgent binding decision.

In addition, the EDPB issued two new guidelines, on 
the topics of Art. 37 of the law enforcement Directive 
and on the technical scope of Art. 5(3) of the ePrivacy 
Directive. 

The  EDPB  adopted  37  consistency  opinions  
(Art. 64 GDPR), of which the EDPB Secretariat led the 
drafting of 10 opinions and contributed to a further 
14.  These  opinions  mainly  concerned  decisions 
regarding  Binding  Corporate  Rules  and  draft 
accreditation requirements of a certification body or 
a code of conduct monitoring body. 

The  EDPB  also  adopted  two  legislative  opinions, 
jointly with the EDPS. 

As  the  volume  and  complexity  of  the  EDPB’s 
tasks  substantially  increased,  the  role  of  the 
EDPB  Secretariat  has  also  evolved.  Following  the 

The  2023  Annual  Report  contains  a  full  list  of  all 
guidance, consistency and legislative documents and 
discusses some of these in greater detail. 

4

2.1.  BINDING DECISIONS

Binding  Decision  1/2023  on  the  dispute 
submitted by the Irish SA on data transfers 
by  Meta  Platforms  Ireland  Limited  for  its 
Facebook service (Art. 65 GDPR)

In  April  2023,  the  EDPB  settled  a  dispute  on  data 
transfers by Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (Meta IE) 
in its Binding Decision 1/2023. 

Following this binding decision, Meta IE was issued a 
€1.2 billion fine by the Irish Data Protection Authority 
(Irish DPA). This fine was imposed for Meta’s transfers 
of personal data to the U.S. on the basis of standard 
contractual  clauses  (SCCs)  since  16  July  2020. 
Furthermore, Meta IE was ordered to bring its data 
transfers into compliance with the GDPR. 

Binding  Decision  2/2023  on  the  dispute 
submitted by the Irish SA regarding TikTok 
Technology Limited (Art. 65 GDPR) 

In August 2023, the EDPB resolved a dispute on the 
draft  decision  of  the  Irish  DPA  on  the  processing 
of  personal  data  of  users  between  the  ages  of  13 
and  17  by  TikTok  Technology  Limited  (TikTok  IE). 
In its Binding Decision 2/2023, the EDPB analysed 
the design practices implemented by TikTok in the 
context of two pop-up notifications that were shown 
to children aged 13-17: the Registration Pop-Up and 
the Video Posting Pop-Up. The analysis found that 
both pop-ups failed to present options to the user in 
an objective and neutral way. 

Following  the  EDPB’s binding  decision, the  Irish 
DPA  issued  a  final  decision,  finding,  in  particular,  
that  TikTok  IE  infringed  the  GDPR’s  principle  of 
fairness when processing personal data relating to 
children between the ages of 13 and 17 and imposed 
a reprimand, a compliance order and a fine of €345 
million. 

Urgent Binding Decision 01/2023 requested 
by  the  Norwegian  SA  for  the  ordering  of 
final  measures  regarding  Meta  Platforms 
Ireland Ltd (Art. 66(2) GDPR) 

Following  the  EDPB’s  urgent  binding  decision 
01/2023 of 27 October 2023, the Irish DPA imposed 
a  ban  on  Meta  IE  for  the  processing  of  personal 
data  for  behavioural  advertising  purposes  on  the 
basis of contract and legitimate interest. The EDPB 
urgent binding decision followed a request from the 
Norwegian Data Protection Authority to order final 
measures which would have effect in the entire EEA. 

2.2.  GENERAL GUIDANCE

In  2023,  the  EDPB  adopted  two  new  guidelines,  
as  well  as  nine  guidelines  following  public 
consultation. The 2023 Annual report discusses two 
noteworthy sets of guidance in greater detail. 

The EDPB adopted Guidelines 03/2022 on deceptive 
design patterns in social media platforms after public 
consultation,  on  14  February  2023. Their  aim  is  to 
lay down practical recommendations and guidance 
to  social  media  providers  as  controllers  of  social 
media, designers and users of social media platforms,  
on how to assess and avoid deceptive design patterns 
in  social  media  interfaces.  The  existence  of  such 
patterns  often  leads  users  to  make  unintended, 
unwilling,  and/or  potentially  harmful  decisions 
concerning  the  processing  of  their  personal  data.  
The  guidelines  provide  a  non-exhaustive  list  of 
deceptive  design  patterns  during  the  life  cycle  of 
a social media account (i.e. from the sign-up stage 
to the closing of a social media account) as well as 
elaborate on the best practices at the end of each use 
case.

With  its  Guidelines  05/22  on  the  use  of  facial 
recognition  technology  (FRT)  in  the  area  of  law 
enforcement, the EDPB contributes to the ongoing 

5

integration  of  FRT  in  the  area  of  law  enforcement 
covered by the Law Enforcement Directive and the 
national laws transposing it. The guidelines provide 
relevant information to lawmakers at EU and national 
level,  as  well  as  for  law  enforcement  authorities 
(LEAs) when implementing and using FRT-systems.  
The  scope  of  the  guidelines  is  limited  to  FRT. 
However, other forms of processing of personal data 
based on biometrics by LEAs, especially if processed 
remotely,  may  entail  similar  or  additional  risks  for 
individuals, groups and society. 

2.3.  LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION  

In the context of legislative consultations requested 
by  the  European  Commission,  the  EDPB  adopts 
opinions on issues pertaining to data protection in 
the EU. Legislative opinions may be adopted solely by 
the EDPB or jointly with the EDPS. The annual report 
contains the full list of adopted legislative advice. 

A noteworthy output of the EDPB’s efforts in 2023, 
which is discussed in greater detail in the report, is its 
Joint Opinion 01/2023 with the EDPS on the Proposal 
for a Regulation laying down additional procedural 
rules  relating  to  the  enforcement  of  Regulation 
(EU)2016/679. This legislative initiative follows the 
EDPB’s 2022 wish list.   

STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 

3. 
The  EDPB  conducted  the  sixth  annual  survey  to 
review its activities under Art. 71(2) GDPR. The survey 
focused  on  the  EDPB’s  work  and  output  during 
the year, particularly its guidelines, joint opinions, 
and  consultation  work.  It  was  conducted  with  
a  view  to  determine  the  usefulness  of 
its 
guidance  for  interpreting  GDPR  provisions,  and  
identify  areas  in  which  better  support  could  be 
provided  to  organisations  and  individuals  in 
navigating  the  EU  data  protection  framework.  
Among  the  key  stakeholders  surveyed  were  

academics in the field of data protection and privacy 
rights,  business  professionals  and  members  of  
non-governmental organisations.

In  general,  the  stakeholders  surveyed  provided 
positive feedback on the EDPB’s guidelines and noted 
that  they  offer  high  practical  value  by  providing 
context to complex regulations in a comprehensive 
manner. Stakeholders continually rely on a wide range 
of guidelines due to the provision of well-illustrated 
examples that are understandable, even where the 
stakeholders’  primary  field  is  not  data  protection. 
To  further  improve  the  guidelines,  constructive 
feedback was given to introduce visualisations such 
as videos to provide higher clarity on more technical 
sections of the guidelines.

4. 

ENFORCEMENT COOPERATION 
AND ENFORCEMENT BY DPAs 

National DPAs are independent public authorities that 
ensure the consistent application of data protection 
law. They play a key role in safeguarding individuals’ 
data  protection  rights  through  cooperation  and 
exercising corrective powers. The EDPB undertakes 
a number of initiatives to promote cooperation on 
enforcement among DPAs.

4.1.      EDPB ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT 

ENFORCEMENT

For  its  2023  Coordinated  Enforcement  Action,  the 
EDPB selected “the Designation and Position of Data 
Protection  Officers”.    Throughout  2023,  25  DPAs 
across the EEA conducted coordinated investigations 
and  contacted  various  organisations,  as  well  as 
individual DPOs, receiving more than 17,000 replies. 
The DPAs consolidated their findings into national 
reports, which were then combined to produce an 
EDPB report, listing the obstacles currently faced by 
DPOs,  along  with  a  series  of  recommendations  to 

6

4.2.  

COOPERATION AND CONSISTENCY 

A  case  with  a  cross-border  component 
is 
registered in a central database via the IMI. In total,  
1023  procedures  related  to  the  One-Stop-Shop  
(Art. 60 GDPR) have been triggered in 2023, out of 
which 442 Final Decisions.

4.3.   NATIONAL CASES WITH EXERCISE OF    
 

CORRECTIVE POWERS 

DPAs  have  different  investigative,  advisory  and 
corrective  measures  at  their  disposal  to  ensure 
entities within their countries apply data protection 
law  correctly  and  consistently.  These  corrective 
measures include imposing processing limitations, 
bans or fines.  

In 2023, DPAs jointly issued over €1.9 billion in fines. 
A detailed breakdown of fines issued in 2023 can be 
found in Chapter 5, as well as a non-exhaustive list of 
national enforcement actions.

further strengthen their role. The report encourages 
DPAs to carry out more awareness-raising activities 
and organisations to ensure that DPOs have sufficient 
opportunities.

In addition, the Support Pool of Experts (SPE) helps 
DPAs increase their capacity to supervise and enforce 
the safeguarding of personal data. The SPE provides 
support in the form of expertise for investigations 
and  enforcement  activities  of  common  interest 
to  DPAs  and  enhances  cooperation/solidarity  by 
reinforcing and complementing the strengths of the 
individual DPAs and addressing operational needs.  
So far, a total of 13 projects, some of which are on  
AI-related matters, have been launched. 

In June 2023, the EDPB organised a boot camp on 
website  inspections,  where  it  invited  several  DPA 
experts.  This  event  was  a  great  occasion  to  use 
and  discuss  the  new  EDPB  website  auditing  tool 
developed in the framework of the SPE, and which is 
now published as open-source code on code.europa.
eu. 

For  the  second  time,  the  EDPB  commissioned  a 
thematic case digest, on security of processing and 
data breach notification as part of its SPE initiative. 
Case  digests  are  overviews  of  decisions  adopted 
under  the  One-Stop-Shop  procedure  about  a 
particular topic. The purpose of these digests is to give 
the DPAs and the general public, including privacy 
professionals, insight into the decisions adopted by 
DPAs following cross-border cooperation procedures.

7

CONTACT DETAILS
Postal address

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels

Office address

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

Further details about the EDPB can be found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

