 

Anu Talus 
Chair of the European  Data Protection  Board 
 

 

 
Personal Information Protection Commission 
209, Sejong-daero, Jongno-gu 
Seoul, 03171 
Republic of Korea 
 
 
Brussels, 20 June 2023 
 

by e-mail only 
 
Ref: OUT2023-0044 
 
 
 

Dear Mr. Ko, 

Thank you very much for your letter of 16 May 2023, addressed to Andrea Jelinek as Chair of the EDPB, 
to which I am replying after being elected as new Chair of the EDPB on 25 May 2023.   

I take note of your two questions  linked to recent decisions of the Personal Information Protection 
Commission.  

As a preliminary remark, I must underline that it goes beyond the EDPB’s remit to provide any kind of 
legal advice and/or opinion with regard to individual cases or the practices of individual controllers in 
non-EU countries. Within its mission of ensuring the consistent application of the GDPR, the EDPB has 
however issued  guidance that can be relevant to your  questions,  bearing in mind  that they refer 
specifically to the interpretation and application of the GDPR itself.      

In your first question you request the EDPB’s views as to which party (i.e. the website operator, or the 
plugin provider) is obliged to obtain consent under the GDPR regarding the collection of users’ online 
behavioural data using cookies and online identifiers.  

In this context, you refer to the Judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) 
regarding Fashion  ID vs  Verbraucherzentrale NRW e.V. 1 In this  ruling, the CJEU  concluded  that a 
website operator which embeds a social media plugin on its website  causing the browser of a visitor 
to that website to request content from the provider of that plugin and, to that end, to transmit to 
that provider personal data of the visitor, can be considered a controller, jointly with the social media 
                                                             
1 Fashion ID GmbH & Co. KG va Verbraucherzentrale NRW e.V. (Case C-40/17), ECLI:EU:C:2019:629 (hereafter: 
Case C-40/17) 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

plugin  provider, in  respect of  operations for  which it determines the purposes  and means of the 
processing, i.e. the collection and disclosure by transmission of the personal data of that visitor. 2 The 
CJEU further stated that consent must be given prior to the collection and disclosure by transmission 
of the data subject’s data to the social media plugin provider3. In such circumstances, it is for the 
operator of the website, rather than for the provider of the social plugin, to obtain that consent, since 
it is the fact that the visitor consults that website that triggers the processing of the personal data in 
that case4. However, the consent that must be given to the operator relates only to the operation or 
set of operations involving the processing of personal data in respect of which the operator actually 
determines the purposes and means. 5 

A first important point to be borne in mind is that the judgment of the CJEU in Fashion  ID is anchored 
in the concept of joint controllership, which refers to the situation where two or more entities jointly 
determine the purposes and means of processing 6. The EDPB has issued guidance on the concept of 
(joint) controllership in its Guidelines 7/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor, clarifying 
that the qualification as controller has to be assessed  with regard to each specific data processing 
activity7. With reference, specifically, to joint controllership and the element of jointly determining 
the means of processing, the EDPB clarified that joint controllers can be such when they process the 
data  for  the  same  purposes  but  also  when  they  pursue  purposes  which  are  closely  linked  or 
complementary, e.g. when a mutual benefit arises from the same processing operation and each of 
the entities involved participates in the determination of the purposes and means of processing. 8With 
respect to  the joint  controllers’ decision  on  the means  for  processing,  the EDPB built  upon  the 
judgment in Fashion ID to note that “the choice made by an entity to use for its own purposes a tool 
or other system  developed by  another entity, allowing the processing of  personal data, will likely 
amount to a joint decision on the means of that processing by those entities”9, but clarified that “the 
use of a common data processing system or infrastructure will not in  all cases lead to qualify the 
parties involved as joint controllers”10. 

Additionally,  in  its  Guidelines  8/2020  on  the  targeting of  social  media  users,  which  you  have 
referenced in  your letter, the EDPB has underlined that, where (joint) controllers seek to rely on 
consent, valid consent must be obtained prior to the processing, and that it is the responsibility of the 
(joint) controllers to assess when and how information on the processing of personal data should be 
provided, and consent obtained. The question of which joint controller is in charge of collecting this 
                                                             
2 Case C-40/17, paragraphs 99-101. 
3 Case C-40/17, paragraph 102.  
4 Case C-40/17, paragraph 102. 
5 Case C-40/17, paragraph 102. 
6 Regulation 2016/679 (hereafter: GDPR), Article 4(7) and Article 26.  
7 EDPB Guidelines 7/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor, paragraph 26.  
8 EDPB Guidelines 7/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor, paragraph 59-60.  
9 EDPB Guidelines 7/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor, paragraph 67. The EDPB also noted that 
the CJEU concluded “that by embedding on its website the Facebook Like button made available by Facebook 
to website operators, Fashion ID has exerted a decisive influence in respect of the operations involving the 
collection and transmission of the personal data of the visitors of its website to Facebook and had thus jointly 
determined with Facebook the means of that processing” (referring to Case 40/17, paragraphs 77-79).  
10 EDPB Guidelines 7/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor, paragraph 68. 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

consent comes down to determining which of them is involved first with the data subject. 11 In practice, 
therefore, the EDPB’s view is that this question will depend on the circumstances of the specific case 
at hand.  

As to example 6 of these guidelines, as the placement of cookies and processing of personal data 
occurred at the moment of account creation, the EDPB considers that the social media provider had 
to collect her valid consent before the placement of advertisement cookies12. However, another point 
that was highlighted by the EDPB is that where consent is relied upon by multiple (joint) controllers or 
if the data is to be transferred to or processed by other controllers who wish to rely on the original 
consent, these organisations should all be named, and insofar as not all joint controllers are known at 
the moment when the social media provider seeks the consent, the latter will necessarily need to be 
complemented by further information and consent collected by the website operator embedding the 
social media plugin13. This was illustrated in example 6 of the Guidelines, where the website operator 
sought consent to transmit the personal data to the social media provider and undertook technical 
measures so that no  personal data is transferred to the social  media platform until she gives her 
consent. 14    

It is also to be emphasised that the consent that may have to be collected by the website operator 
relates only to the operation or set of operations involving the processing of personal data in respect 
of  which  the  operator  actually determines  the  purposes  and  means15. Consequently,  the EDPB 
underlined that the collection of consent by a website operator does not negate or in any way diminish 
the obligation of the social media provider to ensure the data subject has provided a valid consent for 
the processing for which it is responsible, either as a joint controller or as a sole controller.  

As regards your second request to provide EDPB’s views on the data processing practices of large 
technology  companies  and  claims  that are  made  by  these  companies,  including  concerns  over 
potential data protection and privacy infringements, as mentioned above, the EDPB cannot provide 
legal advice on specific cases outside of its remit, nor make general statements about any category of 
controllers and their practices in third countries.  

As regards the three national decisions  you  have referenced, I would  like to underline that as all 
national decisions, these were taken based on the circumstances of those specific cases, and do not 
cover the practices of controllers in third countries’ jurisdictions. 

                                                             
11 EDPB Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, paragraph 74. 
12 EDPB Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, paragraph 74.  
13 EDPB Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, paragraph 75; EDPB Guidelines 5/2020 on 
consent under Regulation 2016/679, paragraph 65. According to the EDPB, insofar as not all joint controllers 
are known at the moment when the social media provider seeks the consent, the latter will necessarily need to 
be complemented by further information and consent collected by the website operator embedding the social 
media plugin. EDPB Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, paragraph 75.  
14 EDPB Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, paragraph 74, and example 6 on p. 21. 
15 EDPB Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeting of social media users, paragraph 76, referring to Case 40/17 
paragraphs 100-101.    
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

I trust that these explanations and the documents we refer to may be helpful and clarify the work 
carried out by the EDPB with a view of ensuring a consistent application of the GDPR in respect of 
the issues mentioned in your letter.  

 
 
Yours sincerely 

 
 
Anu Talus 
 

 

 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

