1/10

 File No.: EXP202208456

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 16, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (onwards,
the claimed party), through the Transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202208456

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: B.B.B. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 07/28/2022, filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party), for the
installation of a video surveillance system located at ***ADDRESS.1, with
indications of a possible breach of the provisions of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The reasons for the claim are the following:

The complaining party declares that he is a neighbor of the claimed party and that he has
installed cameras on his property that would capture images of areas of the yard of the
claiming party that adjoins the property of the claimed party. Bring two
videos sent by the claimed party to the claiming party, of two recordings
from the video surveillance system of the claimed party in which
appreciates the uptake of areas of the home of the claimant.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), there is no record of whether it was collected, since it did not work in the
file the acknowledgment of receipt. Reiterating the transfer by the same means,
Notifies on 10/28/2022.

On 11/15/2022, this Agency received a written response in which the
indicates that they have not contracted any security company for maintenance
of the system, and that the captured images are saved for a period of 7 days.
It provides images of the field of vision of the cameras, in which it can be seen that
several of the cameras are capturing properties of the neighbors and one of them part
of the public highway (in this case it would be proportional).

THIRD: On October 28, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

 Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

 The image is a personal data

The physical image of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is data
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.

""treatment": any operation or set of operations carried out on
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by means of
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structure-
tion, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of authorization of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction;”

The images generated by a system of cameras or camcorders are data of
personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the protection regulations
of data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the denounced video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

The art. 5.1 c) GDPR provides the following: Personal data will be:

II

 alleged infringement

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for those who are processed ("data minimization")."

Regarding treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

The processing of personal data is subject to the rest of the principles of the
treatment contained in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight the principle of
minimization of data contained in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR which provides that
personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to
for the purposes for which they are processed”.

This means that in a specific treatment only the data can be processed
timely personal, that come to the case and that are strictly necessary
to fulfill the purpose for which they are processed. Treatment must be adjusted and
proportional to the purpose to which it is directed. The relevance in the treatment of
data must occur both at the time of data collection and at the time of
subsequent treatment carried out on them.

In accordance with the above, the processing of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their deletion.

The application of the principle of data minimization in the field of video surveillance
means that images of the public thoroughfare cannot be captured, since the
treatment of images in public places, unless authorized
government, can only be carried out by the Security Forces and Corps.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
cameras installed on facades or inside, may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public thoroughfare.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

That is, cameras and camcorders installed for security purposes may not be
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for said purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in such a case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and, in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surroundings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those that access the space
guarded.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

Nor can images be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties
without the consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who
find.

Likewise, it is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
such as changing rooms, lockers or rest areas for workers.
 

 Video surveillance obligations

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
video surveillance, to comply with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

IV.

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens.

"Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing does not
could reasonably be achieved by other means”, recital 39 of the
GDPR.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a subsequent purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The treatment of images through the installation of camera systems or
video cameras must be lawful and comply with the principle of proportionality and the principle of
minimization of data, in the terms already indicated.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

4.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, property or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent authority within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit thereof without just cause.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:







the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"),
the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available at the
section "Guides and tools").

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

 Possible administrative offense

V

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the claimed party has a system of
video surveillance that is capturing images of the claimant's farm, therefore
that may be affecting the rights of third parties by processing personal data
personnel, which would violate the provisions of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, for which reason
could involve the commission of an offense classified in article 83.5 of the GDPR,
which provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, according to
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the one with the highest amount:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
(…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and,
in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…).”

SAW

 Sanction proposal

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR. Therefore,
it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
Article 83.2 of the GDPR, and with the provisions of Article 76 of the LOPDGDD, regarding
to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 GDPR.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the corresponding sanction is a fine.
administrative. It must be remembered that the voluntary payment of the proposed amounts does not
exempts from accrediting the regularization of the video surveillance system in accordance with
the regulations in force.

VII

 possible measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period to be determined:

Evidence of having removed the camera system or

•
camcorders from the current location or to their reorientation, in such a way that the
viewing of the images that are observed shows that it is not captured

◦

◦

common areas of the house.

the adjoining house.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

◦

public roads.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

VIII

 Conclusion

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,
HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor C.C.C. and, as secretary, to D.D.D.,
indicating that they may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data on actions carried out prior to the start of this
sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
(LPACAP, hereinafter), the corresponding sanction would be, for the alleged
violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of said regulation,
administrative fine amounting to 300.00 euros.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, granting it a
hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present
the tests it deems appropriate. In your pleadings you must provide
your NIF and the number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement, which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

reduction, the sanction would be established at 240.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 240.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the corresponding measures.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
set at 180.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (240.00 euros or 180.00 euros), you must make it effective
by entering the account number IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000
(BIC/SWIFT Code: CAIXESBBXXX) opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the
concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading
of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it accepts.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The disciplinary procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
from the date of the start agreement or, where appropriate, the start agreement project.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

948-170223

>>

SECOND: On April 8, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the penalty in the amount of 180 euros making use of the two reductions provided
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

in the Commencement Agreement transcribed above, which implies recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FOURTH: In the previously transcribed initiation agreement, it was indicated that, if
Once the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the controller the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

Having recognized the responsibility for the infringement, the imposition of
the measures included in the Initiation Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202208456, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: TO ORDER A.A.A. so that within one month notify the
Agency adopting the measures described in the fundamentals of law
of the Initiation Agreement transcribed in this resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

1259-121222

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

