1/6

 File No.: PS/00343/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated February 8, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A. with NIF A99319030 (in
hereafter, the party claimed).

The reason on which the claim is based is the treatment without consent of their
personal data since it was contracted in your name, both a securities account and
a current account associated with it, used for the distribution of an inheritance
in which he concurred with other heirs. You state that your signature was forged in the
contracts.

Provide the following documentation:

- Unsigned demand deposit account contract, in which he appears as the owner together with
with 4 other people.

- Contract for the custody and administration of securities and opening of a securities account in
the one that appears as the sole owner and that is signed.

- Complaint filed with the Police for the signing of these two contracts without their consent.
consent and forging your signature.

- Claim filed with UNICAJA and response obtained.

- Claim filed with the Bank of Spain.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on March 9, 2021 said claim was transferred to the
claimed party, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

On April 16, 2021, this Agency received a written response
indicating that in order to proceed with the distribution of shares in mutual funds
investment owned by the deceased relative, an account was opened
administration and custody (securities account) in the name of each heir, including
the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

This account was opened in the central services, in the unit in charge of
manage the wills and the contractual document was printed on paper in the
Quintanar de la Serena office, being scanned into the application with the signature of
its holder that could be picked up at any office where the claimant made
usually their business.

In turn, it is necessary for operational reasons that said securities account has
linked a savings account as support for debits and payments. That's why it opened
a savings account in the name of all the heirs and that responds to the need
to associate a savings account to each of the securities accounts awarded to
each heir.

This Agency shows that the claimed entity has not provided a copy of the
savings account contract signed by the claimant.

THIRD: On June 11, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: On October 18, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Once the aforementioned initiation agreement was notified, the one claimed on November 10,
2021, presented a brief of allegations in which, in summary, it stated that the
claim filed by the claimant is a consequence of the opening of two
accounts in the name of A.A.A. in order to process the distribution of the inheritance of his
uncle, B.B.B., as a consequence of different financial products that he had in
IBERCAJA BANK.

In said brief of allegations it is stated, therefore, that the facts that are the subject of this
claim are subject to the distribution and adjudication of the assets of the inheritance of
B.B.B., deposited in the claimed financial institution.

The causative subject, B.B.B. passed away on October 9, 2017, which is credited
by death certificate

The claimant, A.A.A., requested on September 22, 2018 that the distribution be made
of current accounts and investment funds, in which the deceased appears as
holder, according to the provisions of the declaration of heirs granted before a notary public on 28
February 2018, noting that the percentage of the amount of the account balance
current ***ACCOUNT.1 that corresponds according to said declaration of heirs will be
transfer to the account ***ACCOUNT.2, as well as the percentage of the investment funds
that corresponds according to said declaration of heirs.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

Therefore, in compliance with your request on October 15, 2018, the entity
claimed proceeds to transfer the corresponding amount to the account indicated by the
claimant.

The respondent entity states that in order to change the ownership of the shares
of the investment funds of the deceased, it is necessary to open an account
administration and custody (securities account) in the name of each of the heirs,
to which the shares of the investment funds awarded to
each of them as a consequence of the inheritance, with the net asset value that these
they had at the time of death, which is the date they are acquired.

Said action is justified based on the Complaints Report of the Commission
National Securities Market for the year 2017, in relation to the
change of ownership accessible through the website www.cnmv.es, specifically in
https://www.cnmv.es/portal/Publicaciones/PublicacionesGN.aspx?id=23 access is given
to the different annual reports on complaints and queries, so that
accessing that of the year 2017, on page 211 the following is indicated:

  “(…) In this sense, it is important to highlight that for the heirs to be able to
having the values acquired due to death is necessary to carry out
before the change of ownership. This is the last procedure to be
be completed so that the heirs can exercise all the rights linked
to the ownership of the securities acquired in accordance with the provisions of the notebook
partitional Prior to the change of ownership of the
financial instruments acquired mortis causa, it is necessary that the beneficiaries
have open securities accounts whose holders must be the same as those
who are successful bidders of the assets affected by the inheritance - owned
shared in case the inheritance is maintained in undivided or owned
individually in the event that each heir is awarded the property
resulting from the distribution of this— so that the values
awarded. These accounts may be in the same entity in which you had
deposited the values the deceased or in a different one.”

For all these reasons, the defendant entity considers that article 6 of the
RGPD given that the interested party gave her consent for the processing of the data
in order to transfer the shares of the investment funds in your name
of the deceased, since in the letter dated September 22, 2018, he requests and in
consequently authorizes said change of ownership with all the operations that said
This procedure entails the opening of both accounts.

SIXTH: On December 1, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigation actions, as well as the documents provided by the
claimed on November 10, 2021.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The treatment of the personal data of the claimant, without their
consent, since both a securities account and a
a current account associated with it, used for the distribution of an inheritance
in which he concurred with other heirs.

SECOND: The claimed entity, in order to proceed with the distribution of
shares in investment funds owned by a deceased relative of the
claimant, proceeded to open an administration and custody account (account
securities) in the name of each heir, including the claimant.

In the pleadings, the following is provided:

document dated March 26, 2018, where the claimant signs a

authorization to the claimed entity to deliver the assets of the deceased subject,
B.B.B., to the heirs, among whom is the claimant.

letter dated September 22, 2018, in which the claimant requests the

legal department of the claimed entity that makes the distribution
corresponding to current accounts and investment funds, in which the
deceased was the owner, as well as the percentage of the amount of the current account
***ACCOUNT.1 and transferred to the account ***ACCOUNT.2, so that you can have
of said funds and that once all these procedures are completed, proceed to the
cancellation of the accounts in which the deceased appears as the owner.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights, in its article 4.11 defines the consent of the
interested party as "any manifestation of free will, specific, informed and
unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a
clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

In this sense, article 6.1 of the LOPDGDD, establishes that "in accordance with the
provided in article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, consent is understood
affected person, any manifestation of free, specific, informed and inappropriate will.
equivocal by which he accepts, either through a statement or a clear action
affirmative, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

For its part, article 6 of the GDPR establishes the following:

"1. The processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:
nes:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the data controller or by a third party, provided that said interests
interests do not prevail or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interest
cases that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested
sado be a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

III

In the case analyzed here, it has been proven that the entity claimed has
proceeded to open a checking account in the name of the claimant, which
could involve a violation of article 6 of the RGPD by the claimed if not
has the consent of the claimant.

From the recent investigative actions carried out by this Agency, it has been
accredited that the claimant signed on March 26, 2018 an authorization to the
entity claimed to deliver the property of the deceased subject, B.B.B., and requested on 22
September 2018, to the legal department of the entity claimed that this
make the corresponding distribution of current accounts and investment funds,
in which the deceased was the owner.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

It has also been verified that the respondent entity has acted in accordance with
the guidelines set by the National Securities Market Commission, which
recommends the opening of a value account in the event of a change of ownership, in
assumptions of succession, specifically pointing out the following:

“Prior to the change of ownership of the financial instruments
financial assets acquired mortis causa, it is necessary that the beneficiaries have open
securities accounts whose holders must be the same as those resulting
successful bidders of the assets affected by the inheritance —shared ownership in the event
that the inheritance be maintained pro indiviso or individually owned in case of
proceed to award to each heir the property resulting from the distribution of this
— so that the awarded values are deposited in them. These accounts can be
in the same entity in which the deceased had deposited the securities or in another
different.”

Thus, it is considered that the action of the entity claimed has been
adequate in law, since it acted in response to the claimant's request
sent to the legal department of the entity claimed on September 22,
2018, where it required the distribution of current accounts and funds
of investment, and carried out said actions following the guidelines set by
the National Securities Market Commission.

IV

Therefore, after learning of these facts, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

