1/11

 Procedure No.: PS/00427/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 06/17/2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against GIJÓN CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P3302400A (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are, in short: that the
02/14/2020 sent an email to the DPD of the claimed person to check where
can access the record of treatment activities and if the activities of
treatment of the Municipal Sports Board of the aforementioned City Council (which does not have
declared DPD) depend on the same DPD (that of the City Council), and where you can
access them. There is no response from the DPD.

SECOND: On 08/14/2020, the claim was transferred to the respondent,
in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter, LOPDGDD), in order for it to proceed with its analysis, notify the
claimant of the decision adopted and provide this Agency with information in this regard.

On 09/22/2020, the respondent sent a response in which he sets out the functions of the DPD,
response times for the actions that are incumbent on it, how to contact them. I know
It follows from this response that the City Council has not established a registry of
treatment activities.

On the other hand, it indicates that the query addressed by the complainant to the DPD was not
produced by the means established by the local entity (municipal website or offices of
citizen attention, as explained in the link “contact with the Delegate of
Data Protection"), so it cannot be understood that there was a lack of response. Y
Nor was there a breach of the deadline, provided solely for the purposes of
answer claims ex art.37 LOPDGDD; when the affected person addresses the DPD
in claim, the response period will be two months or one month, depending on
Present directly or received through the AEPD; and for what they are not
claims (queries, resolution of doubts, etc.), it is a procedure without
term established by what will govern article 21.3 Law 39/2015.

It adds that it is the data controller who must provide the interested party with the
access to the record of treatment activities and that said record is in
validation and publication process; that to date the work related to
the register of treatment activities have not yet reached the publication phase,
due to the delays arising from the start of a new mandate of the corporation and
its consequent readjustments of competences, together with the difficulties of the current

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

socio-health crisis.

THIRD: On 11/16/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim.

FOURTH: On 01/25/2021 the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed for the presumed infraction of the
article 30 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified, dated 02/10/2021, the respondent presented
brief of allegations indicating, in summary, the following:

. The GIJÓN CITY COUNCIL points out that on 03/15/2019 the Roadmap was approved
for adaptation to the new LOPDGDD, among whose measures was the
preparation of the RAT, and attaches an email about the preparatory work carried out
finished. On this issue, it expressly states that “work has begun
even when you are not in a position to do so (the activity log of
treatment) accessible to the public through its publication.”;

. That the configuration of the municipal government team in mid-2019 led to
a series of changes in the municipal internal organization. Thus, by agreement of
the Local Government Board of 07/28/2020, the list of jobs was approved,
suppressing the Planning and Modernization Service and creating the Service of
Strategy and Coordination of Resources, who is attributed the assistance, support
technical and material to the Data Protection Delegate;

. That the respondent has had a limited increase in staff in recent years and
difficulties in the optimal performance of services, to which has been added the current
socio-sanitary crisis derived from COVI-19, which has caused delays in some
processes based on more peremptory and urgent needs;

. That, however, it has decided to promote and implement the policies of
security and data protection by bidding for a contract, currently in process, to
perimeter security management solutions, event correlation of
security, training in security measures, adaptation to the National Scheme of
Security (ENS) and the General Data Protection Regulation (RGPD);

. That the immaturity of the RAT, which prevents its publication, contrasts with the commitment
of the claimed with the protection of the rights of minors, having adopted
measures aimed at proactively ensuring the protection of minors in
their relationship with the entity.

SIXTH: On 03/02/2021 a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/06737/2020.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

presented by the claimed party and the accompanying documentation.

SEVENTH: On 06/03/2021, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense of
that the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection directs a
warning to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF GIJÓN, for an infraction of the
articles 30 of the RGPD and 31 of the LOPDGDD, typified in Article 83.4.a) of the
GDPR.

Likewise, it was proposed that the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is required from the GIJÓN CITY COUNCIL so that, within the period
determine, adopt the necessary measures to adapt its actions to the regulations
of protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Foundations of
Rights of the aforementioned motion for a resolution.

EIGHTH: The entity CITY COUNCIL OF GIJÓN was notified of the proposed
resolution, dated 06/17/2021, this Agency received a letter of allegations in
which requests that the obligations regarding the registration of
treatment activities and the file of the actions is agreed based on the
following considerations:

. It questions what is expressed in the Second Proven Fact, since it understands that it does not include
the circumstances expressed in the allegations made to the agreement to start the
process. Considers that the process of adaptation to the
GDPR.

. In accordance with Recital 82 of the RGPD, the registration of activities of
treatment is an instrument to prove that the action of the person in charge complies with the
regulations, so that the mere absence of publicity of this inventory of
activities does not imply a breach. The opposite would be a kind of
strict liability.

. In the same way, the criteria for the imposition of a fine established in the
article 83 of the RGPD are also revealers of the non-existence of conduct
punishable, including the means and measures implemented, as well as the practices of
treatment of the Municipal Sports Board that were provided as examples,
in accordance with the RGPD and with the principle of proactive responsibility.

. In any case, on 06/04/2021, by Resolution of the Mayor's Office, the
“Instruction 2/2021, of the Registry of personal data processing activities”,
according to which the Inventory of treatment activities will be proposed by the
General Directorate of Services for final approval by Resolution of
Mayor and publication. The Inventory will be accessible by electronic means in various
official media and channels (Official Gazette of the Principality of Asturias, municipal website of
transparency and on the municipal intranet); and will be kept updated.
   
And on 06/16/2021, said "Inventory of the registration of
personal data processing activities” by Resolution of the Mayor, and
published in writing and in electronic format, as can be verified through the
website “gijon.es” (url
 “https://www.gijon.es/es/publicaciones/inventario-del-registro-de-
personal-data-processing-activities”).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

According to the respondent, this Inventory, which is subject to a process of
adaptation and continuous improvement, groups the treatments by common and specific subjects
of areas, services or administrative units, amounting to a total of
forty-five categories, which also includes those that keep
relation to the claim and initiation of this sanctioning procedure, regarding
to the Municipal Sports Board.

The pleadings brief includes a link to the aforementioned “Inventory”, in its initial edition,
which is accessible through the aforementioned url. It is verified that for
each treatment activity details its purpose, legal basis, data category
personal, category of interested parties, recipients of communications,
international transfers, retention periods and technical measures and
organizational. The identity of the data controller is also detailed.
(GIJÓN CITY COUNCIL) and the contact details of the Protection Delegate
of data.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, there have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 06/17/2020 you have entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant stating that on 02-14-2020 he sent mail
email to the DPD of the claimed person to see where the Registry can be accessed
of the Processing Activities of the entity.

SECOND: To date, the Gijón City Council does not have the Registry of
Treatment Activities. The claimed entity itself, in the writings it has
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection on the occasion of the claim
outlined in the First Proven Fact, has recognized that the Registry of Activities
of Treatment is in the validation process and that the related works
with said Registry have not reached the publication phase.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

The facts claimed materialize in the absence of the Registry of Activities of
Treatment by the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

Article 30, “Record of treatment activities”, of the RGPD establishes that:

"1. Each person in charge and, where appropriate, their representative will keep a record of the activities of
Treatment carried out under your responsibility. This record must contain all
information listed below:

a) the name and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of the co-controller, of the
representative of the person in charge, and of the data protection delegate;
b) the purposes of the treatment;
c) a description of the categories of data subjects and the categories of personal data;
d) the categories of recipients to whom the data was or will be disclosed
personal, including recipients in third countries or international organizations;
e) where appropriate, transfers of personal data to a third country or organization
including identification of such third country or international organization and, where
In the case of the transfers indicated in article 49, section 1, second paragraph, the
adequate collateral documentation;
f) when possible, the periods foreseen for the suppression of the different categories of
data;
g) where possible, a general description of the technical and organizational measures of
security referred to in article 32, paragraph 1.

2. Each manager and, where appropriate, the manager's representative, will keep a record of all
the categories of processing activities carried out on behalf of a controller that
contain:

a) the name and contact details of the person in charge or persons in charge and of each person responsible for
account of which the person in charge acts, and, where appropriate, of the representative of the person in charge or of the
manager, and the data protection delegate;
b) the categories of processing carried out on behalf of each controller;
c) where appropriate, transfers of personal data to a third country or organization
including identification of such third country or international organization and, where
In the case of the transfers indicated in article 49, section 1, second paragraph, the
adequate collateral documentation;
d) where possible, a general description of the technical and organizational measures of
security referred to in article 30, paragraph 1.

3. The records referred to in sections 1 and 2 shall be in writing, including in
electronic.

4. The person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the representative of the
The person in charge or the person in charge will make the record available to the control authority that
I requested.

5. The obligations indicated in sections 1 and 2 will not apply to any company or
organization that employs less than 250 people, unless the treatment it performs
may entail a risk to the rights and freedoms of the interested parties, is not occasional, or
includes special categories of personal data indicated in article 9, paragraph 1, or
personal data related to criminal convictions and offenses referred to in article 10”.

On the other hand, article 31 of the LOPDGDD establishes the following:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment or, where appropriate, their representatives must
maintain the record of treatment activities referred to in article 30 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless the exception provided for in its section is applicable
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

5.

The registry, which may be organized around structured sets of data, should
specify, according to their purposes, the treatment activities carried out and the other
circumstances established in the aforementioned regulation.

When the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment has designated a delegate of
data protection must inform you of any addition, modification or exclusion in the
record content.

2. The subjects listed in article 77.1 of this organic law will make public an inventory
of its treatment activities accessible by electronic means, which will include the
information established in article 30 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and its legal basis”.

III

The aforementioned regulations establish the obligation of those responsible and in charge of
processing of personal data to keep a record of the activities of the
treatment. In addition, in the case of the subjects listed in article 77.1 of the
LOPDGDD, including the entities that make up the Administration
Local, as the claimed party, is also obliged to make said record public and accessible
by electronic means.

In this case, the documentation in the file proves that the person claimed
violated article 30 of the RGPD, “Registration of treatment activities”, by not
having prepared and published this record until June 2021. As stated in the
written statement of allegations to the proposal and in the attached documentation, the
“Inventory of the record of personal data processing activities” of the
GIJÓN CITY COUNCIL was approved by Resolution of the Mayor's Office and
06/16/2021.

The defendant himself, prior to the aforementioned hearing process, had recognized
that it is the responsibility of the data controller to provide the interested party with access to the RAT;
and that, where appropriate, said record was in the process of being validated, without, at the same time,
date in which it formulates its allegations at the opening of the procedure, the works
related to said record had reached the publication stage. and raised
these initial allegations to the opening agree with this fact, noting that
This was due to delays arising from the start of a new mandate of the
municipal corporation in mid-2019, of its consequent readjustments
competencies and the difficulties caused by the current social and health crisis.

According to the entity claimed, the configuration of the Municipal Government team
mid-2019, motivated by local elections, brought about a series of changes
in the municipal internal organization. Through the Governing Board Agreement
Local, on 07/28/2020, the current job list was approved,
suppressing the Planning and Modernization Service and creating the Service of
Strategy and Coordination of Resources, who is credited with, among others, the
assistance, technical and material support to the Data Protection Delegate for the
performance of their duties.

On the other hand, the complainant pointed out that he has seen how in recent years by
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

certain circumstances have imposed a series of limitations and difficulties
in the optimal performance of services, to which the current crisis has come to join
socio-sanitary derived from COVI-19, which has caused delays in some processes
under way, based on more peremptory and urgent needs.

The respondent explained that on 03/15/2019 he approved the "Road Map" for adaptation to
the new LOPDGDD, among whose measures was the elaboration of the register of
treatment activities, and expressly stated that he was not in
conditions of making it accessible to citizens through its publication.

It also reported that the security and data protection policies were being
promoted through the bidding of a contract to try to provide solutions of
management derived from perimeter security, correlation of security events,
training in security measures, adaptation to the National Security Scheme
(ENS) and the RGPD, currently in process. Finally, I point out that the "immaturity"
of the register of treatment activities prevented its publication.

In short, the respondent, in his responses to this body, attached evidence that
would show the existence of the preparatory work for the elaboration of the indicated
record, although such work had not been completed at the time the
this procedure, so that said Registry had not been prepared at that time.
date, nor at the moment in which the arguments are presented at the opening.
It was expressly admitted that it was not in a position to make the
registration of treatment activities to citizens through its publication.

These circumstances are referred to in the Second Proven Fact, which is
of the information provided by the claimed entity itself. They are not understood,
consequently, that the allegations to the proposed resolution question what
expressed in this proven fact.

As for the circumstances alleged to justify this delay in adapting to the
RGPD, the proposed resolution warned the respondent that said Regulation is
It is in force since 05/24/2016 and fully applicable since 05/25/2018.
Therefore, the obligation to prepare the register of treatment activities is very
prior to the constitution of the new municipal corporation and the outbreak of the
pandemic. If the aforementioned City Council claimed, to save the alleged limitations,
recently began the procedures for the bidding of a contract whose purpose is the
development of the necessary tasks to comply with that adaptation to the RGPD, either
he could have formalized said contract years before.

On the other hand, in its brief of allegations to the proposed resolution, the entity
Respondent considers that the lack of publicity of the register of activities of
treatment does not imply a breach, taking into account that this record is
configured in Recital 82 of the RGPD only as an instrument "(82)
To demonstrate compliance with this Regulation, the person in charge or the
The person in charge of the treatment must keep records of the treatment activities
under its responsibility".

This instrumental nature of the record of treatment activities is true, but
so is the obligation to maintain it. Failure to comply with this obligation is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

constituting an infringement, as set forth in the following Legal Basis.

Therefore, in the present case, the non-compliance with the established
in articles 30 of the RGPD and 31 of the LOPDGDD.

IV

Article 83.4 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the obligations of the
responsible and of the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43” is
punishable in accordance with section 4 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned
RGPD, “with administrative fines of a maximum of €10,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
n) Not having the record of treatment activities established in article 30 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”.

v

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment”, establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:
a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of the
autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities
and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or dependent on the
Public administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are related
with the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 commit any of the
the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the authority of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

protection of data that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning them with
warning. The resolution will also establish the measures to be adopted so that
stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
It will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and directors, and the
existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that had not been
duly attended to, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include a
reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the publication will be ordered in the
Official Gazette of the corresponding State or Autonomous Community.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that fall
in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under the
this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the entities
of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority,
It will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what its regulations have
specific”.

In the case at hand, it is found that the defendant, as he has
confirmed in its response to the information requirement of this AEPD, has failed to comply
the obligation to have the RAT established, as well as to make it public by means
electronics.

Said conduct constitutes, on the part of the defendant, an infraction of the
provided in articles 30 of the RGPD and 31 of the LOPDGDD.

It should be noted that the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83,
contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of directing a warning to correct the
non-compliance with the provisions contemplated in said Regulation and in the aforementioned
Organic Law by those responsible or in charge listed in section 1.

This being the case, it is not possible to apply in this case the circumstances established
to graduate the administrative fines, to which the CITY COUNCIL OF
GIJÓN in his brief of arguments to the proposed resolution.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

On the other hand, it is contemplated that the resolution issued may establish the
measures to be taken to stop the behavior, correct the effects of the
infraction that had been committed and the necessary adaptation is carried out, in this
case, to the requirements contemplated in article 30 of the RGPD, as well as the
provision of means accrediting compliance with the requirements.

Thus, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 77 of the LOPD, by the instructor of the
procedure, a proposal for a resolution was formulated so that the Director of the
AEPD agreed to require the responsible entity to adapt its actions to the
personal data protection regulations, proceeding to prepare the registration of
treatment activities and arranging what is necessary to make it accessible by
electronic media.

However, on the occasion of the hearing procedure for the proposed resolution, the
claimed has proven to have fulfilled these obligations. It is proven that,
by Resolution of the Mayor's Office dated 06/16/2021, said
“Inventory of the record of personal data processing activities” and published
through the web “gijon.es” (url “https://www.gijon.es/es/publicaciones/inventario-del-
record-of-activities-of-treatment-of-personal-data”).

The pleadings brief included a link to the aforementioned “Inventory”, in its initial edition.
It is verified that the treatments are grouped by common subjects and specific to
areas, services or administrative units; and that for each treatment activity
details its purpose, legal basis, category of personal data, category of
interested parties, recipients of communications, international transfers,
retention periods and technical and organizational measures. It also details the
identity of the data controller (GIJÓN CITY COUNCIL) and the data of
Contact of the Data Protection Delegate.

This “Inventory”, due to its content and structure, conforms to the regulated provisions
of articles 30 of the RGPD and 31 of the LOPD. Therefore, to date, it is understood
fulfilled the obligation to keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under the responsibility of the CITY COUNCIL OF GIJÓN, not resulting
from the imposition of additional measures.

This statement does not imply any pronouncement on the regularity or legality of
the treatment activities described in the record provided by the claimed party, nor
on its purpose or legal basis, as they are aspects that exceed the object of the
present procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SEND A WARNING to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF GIJÓN,
with NIF P3302400A, for an infringement of articles 30 of the RGPD and 31 of the
LOPDGDD, typified in Article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF
GIJON.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

