Criminal Responsibility  
Minors over 14 years of age are also liable* for the crimes defined in the Penal Code such as harassment, threats, or the dissemination or forwarding of images that seriously undermine a person's privacy, even if obtained with their permission, applicable in cases of sexting, cyberbullying, or cyber harassment. The measures in these cases depend on their circumstances: developmental progress, background, etc., and typically involve community service or socio-educational tasks, which may extend to supervised release and even deprivation of liberty (internment in centers or weekend confinement).  
* Organic Law regulating the criminal responsibility of minors  

Disciplinary Responsibility in the Educational Field  
These behaviors give rise to disciplinary responsibility when they occur in educational institutions (harassment, intimidation, humiliation, serious offenses, discrimination, or violence against other students or teachers conducted via the Internet). Corrective measures can be imposed ranging from verbal warnings or written reprimands to the suspension of the right to attend the institution or the expulsion of the student.  

Administrative Responsibility  
The publication without consent of sensitive information about a person (images, audio, videos, or information of a sexual or violent nature that allows identification) via the Internet constitutes a violation of data protection regulations which, without prejudice to reporting it to the Priority Channel of the Agency to request the urgent removal of such content, may result in a financial penalty for the person who published or contributed to the dissemination. The financial penalty for violating data protection regulations imposed on minors over 14 years of age is jointly borne by their parents or guardians.  
It is an offense both to obtain data illegally (images, videos, audio, or other content) and for anyone who, without the consent of the affected person, has disseminated or published them on the Internet.  

Civil Responsibility  
The material and moral damages caused to third parties by minors as a result of these behaviors (both criminal and non-criminal) give rise to patrimonial civil responsibility, which is assumed by the parents or guardians.  

RESPONSIBILITY OF MINORS (AND THEIR PARENTS) FOR ACTS COMMITTED ON THE INTERNET  
www.aepd.es  
AEPD_es  
Harassing others, intimidating them, discriminating against them, expressing mockery, or publishing sensitive content through social networks and other internet services may violate their rights and be against the law. It may constitute an administrative infraction and even a crime.  
Parents or legal guardians may ultimately have to respond financially for the administrative infractions and criminal behaviors of their minor children, as well as for the material and moral damages caused.  
Anyone who unlawfully disseminates sensitive content or information about other people without their consent may incur various types of responsibilities:  
@aepd.es  
AEPD  
www.aepd.es  
AEPD_es