 

 
 

media information
 
Saxon data protection officer
 
 

 

 
Safe Internet Day 2021
Andreas Schurig: “Privacy-friendly applications
preferably use"
 
 
This year, Safer Internet Day takes place on February 9th. In which
Day of Action is an EU initiative that raises the issue of online safety
comes into focus. The international motto is "Together for a better internet".
 
On the occasion of Safer Internet Day, the Saxon data protection officer explains
Andreas Schurig: “For most people in Europe, the use of
Apps and online services add to their lives as a matter of course. quite a few
These applications collect and process a large amount of personal data,
without users always being aware of the extent.
Fortunately, there are also transparent and data-saving
same solutions. We should avoid such privacy-friendly applications
preferentially and thus our basic right to informational self-determination
perception."
 
There are now numerous online applications and services for more data
protection on the internet. Below are some examples, but they are not
represent recommendations only.
 
exodus-privacy.eu.org
The free web service is primarily aimed at users of the operating system
tem's android. Exodus-privacy.eu.org provides information about whether and which apps
contain tracking code and can therefore collect user data. In addition,
the website lists the type and scope of permissions that the various
need apps.
 
F-Droid
For the most part, free and open-source apps for Android are available from the F-Droid app store.
roid available. Some apps are also available on other platforms. At F-Droid
they can usually be downloaded without advertising and tracking code
the. Basically, all apps are developed by the F-Droid team on advertising modules, si-
security and privacy issues checked. A guarantee for absolute
this is of course not conceivable.
 

Page 1 of 2

 
 

 

  

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider

 
extension
Telephone 0351/85471-120
Fax 0351/85471-109
 
saechsdsb@
slt.sachsen.de*
 

File number
(please specify when answering)
SPR-0121/10/75
 
Dresden,
February 8, 2021

 

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden
 
www.saechsdsb.de
 
Transport connection:
Accessible by road
train lines 4 and 11
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)
 
*Information about the processing
of your personal data
data and access for
encrypted e-mails can be found below
ter https://www.saechsdsb.de/Da-
data protection declaration.
 



 
 

 

  

privacycore.org
Security and privacy of a website can be checked on privacyscore.org. Of the
Online service is still in test mode (beta phase) and shows website operators
and potential vulnerabilities for users.
 
Specific requirements for those responsible for the data protection-compliant operation of websites
ites has the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal government and
of the federal states (DSK) in the PDF document “Guidelines from the supervisory authorities for providers
of telemedia”: datenschutzkonferenz-online.de
 
uBlock Origin
The open-source web browser extension uBlock Origin is designed to protect against tracking
integrated advertising and analysis services on websites. This can be done using filter lists
Plugin also block malware. It stands for the browsers Chrome, Fire
fox, Microsoft Edge and Opera are available.
 
youngdata.de
Youngdata.de takes up many of the Safer Internet Day topics. The common portal of
data protection officers of the federal states and the federal government is aimed primarily at young people.
But older generations can also find out about data protection issues here,
including social media platforms, search engines, messengers, digital self-
defence, fake news, video surveillance or what data smartphones have about their
collect users.

Page 2 of 2

