1/14

 Procedure No.: PS/00111/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 27, 2018, it is registered at the Agency
Spanish Data Protection claim made by Mr. A.A.A. (onwards,
the claimant) against the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R., (hereinafter, the
claimed), located at ***ADDRESS.1, for the installation of a
video surveillance without complying with the duty to inform the interested parties affected by said
treatment through the placement of informative signs of the video-monitored area
in sufficiently visible places, both in open and closed spaces, as well
as in places with different accesses such as the pool, the social club and the area
playground of the Community of Owners.

The claimant attaches a photographic report of the aforementioned areas of the
Urbanization in order to justify the non-existence of an informative badge in the different
access doors to the pool and the social club or access to the playground
childish. In the photographs provided, although of poor quality and undated, no
Appreciates the existence of informative signs of the video-surveillance zone in space
displayed by them.

Likewise, the claimant provides a copy of an email sent with
date June 20 to the account ***EMAIL.1, in which in addition to requesting information
about the purposes to which the installation of video cameras in the
mentioned areas and the reasons for their lack of signage with
informative badges, requested the minutes reflecting the agreement of the Board
of Owners for the installation of video cameras in the pool, the playground
children and the social club.
SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection requested,
dated October 3, 2018, certain information to the respondent in order to assess
the adequacy of the installation of video surveillance cameras to the regulations of
data protection, including:

Information provided on the existence of a video-monitored area through
photographs of the poster or informative posters in which it is possible to appreciate both its
location as the data displayed; Brand and model of the cameras, providing the
documents (installation manual, technical sheet, invoice or purchase ticket,...) that
allow verifying its characteristics and mode of operation; scope of the
cameras and places where they are installed, accrediting by means of photography of the
images captured by the cameras, as displayed on the monitor or system
equivalent, that the collection space has been limited so as not to affect land and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

adjoining houses, public roads or any other foreign or reserved space;
contribution of a copy of a copy of the minutes of the Board of the Owners Community in
which the installation of the video surveillance cameras is approved, indication of the term
of conservation of the images that are registered and detail of the measures adopted
to ensure that only authorized personnel access the recordings.

2.1 On November 19, 2018, entry is registered in this
Written agency of the legal representative of the claimed party providing a series of
documentation from which the following facts emerge:

-

That the claimed party is responsible for the treatment that responds to
video surveillance purposes (access control to the site) and whose legitimate basis is the
legitimate interest in maintaining and guaranteeing the security and control of access and
installations. Images are stored for 30 days. The claimed, dated
May 23, 2018, signed "Installation and Maintenance Contract" of the system
of security analyzed with the entity ALTATEC SISTEMAS, S.L.

-

That on August 12, 2017, the General Meeting was held
Ordinary Community of Owners. Item No. 5 on the Agenda had as its
matter, as can be deduced from the copy of the Minutes provided by the respondent:
“Security Proposals. Agreements to Take”, appearing in the same detail of
three proposals related to the expansion of the video surveillance system.
Regarding this matter, in the Minutes drawn up it is stated that in view of the result of
the vote, “of 27 votes in favor of security proposals and 17 against,
agrees to hold an Extraordinary Meeting for next Saturday, August 19 and
re-propose these options, asking first for the YES or NO to security.”.

In relation to this agreement, the respondent does not provide a copy of the Minutes drawn up
on the occasion of the result of the Extraordinary Meeting convened for the purposes indicated
for August 19, 2017.

The respondent provides a copy of the document called "Annex for
compliance with the new European Data Protection Regulation 2016/79”, without
date. This document does not identify the entity to which ALTATEC
SYSTEMS, S.L. provide installation and/or maintenance services for the
video surveillance and/or access control as data processor, not appearing
nor any information that allows to associate said Annex with the one claimed.

2.2 On November 27, 2018, the respondent is required to
complement the documentation initially sent by providing the following
information “images of the posters that warn of the existence of a
video surveillance area in which their location can be seen, they must also
provide images of the field of view of the cameras of your security system
video surveillance and finally they must provide the minutes of the Owners' Meeting in which
the installation of the video surveillance system is indeed approved (since the act
that they presented with their last arguments left pending the approval of the
facility)."

On December 10, 2018, the representative of the respondent provides
photographic report showing the informative sign of the video-surveillance zone placed
by the claimed in the accesses and exits, both pedestrian and vehicles, of the
urbanization area. The badge identifies the person claimed as responsible
of the signaled video surveillance treatment, the postal address to which the
Interested parties can go to exercise their rights and it is indicated that you can
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

Obtain “More information on the processing of personal data in the forms
corresponding informative information, which are at your disposal in these
installations.".

2.3 On February 11, 2019, the claimant is again required
to provide “on the one hand, the images of the field of view of all the cameras
that are part of the video surveillance system of the community of owners and by
another, they must provide the minutes of the Homeowners' Meeting in which the
approves the installation of the video surveillance system (since the minutes presented by
with his last allegations he left the approval of the installation pending).

On March 1, 2019, the representative of the respondent provided a new
photographic report showing captures of images of different installations and/or
urbanization entrances. One of the images was obtained on October 4,
2018 and corresponding to camera 15. The rest of the captures provided are
images obtained on November 5, 2018 by cameras 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 some of which show that they have been entered
privacy masks to hide adjoining dwellings. also features
capturing an image of the pool and the grassy area surrounding it
obtained by camera 5 on November 5, 2018.

Notwithstanding which, the respondent did not submit, despite being requested
expressly on three occasions, a copy of the Act of the Community of Owners in the
that it was agreed to approve the installation of the video surveillance system in areas
common to the Community of Owners, in particular, the pool chamber.
THIRD: On June 13, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data, (hereinafter RGPD), for alleged infringement of the provisions of the
article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

Likewise, for the purposes provided in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD in said
The initial agreement notified the corrective measures that, if confirmed
existence of infraction, could be imposed in the resolution adopted,
consistent, in view of the elements of judgment available at that time, in
ORDER the implementation of appropriate technical and organizational measures to
adapt the treatment studied to the principle of legality of the treatment. Namely:

- Identify and justify the legitimate interests pursued by the respondent who
prevail over the interests or rights in terms of data protection of
the interested parties whose images are collected through the cameras of
video surveillance installed in common areas of the Community of Owners,
particularly in what affects the pool, games and social club areas.

   - Provide a copy of the Minutes of the Homeowners' Meeting in which the
installation of the video surveillance system studied in common areas of the
Community of Owners, and in which the express agreement of
install video surveillance cameras in the area of the community pool(s) and its
surrounding.

- Prove that the necessary organizational measures are adopted to

effectively regularize the situation described, describing them.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

Said measures would have to be adopted, where appropriate, within the term
established for such purposes, computed from the day following the notification of
the sanctioning resolution that may fall, having to provide the means of
proof of compliance.

Trying to notify the aforementioned start-up agreement through the State Company
Correos y Telégrafos, S.A., was returned to origin by Sobrante as it was not withdrawn from the
Post Office by the claimed party, and the claimed party may be notified on the 26th of
June 2019 through a courier service.
FOURTH: On July 10, 2019, the respondent filed a written
allegations requesting the file of the sanctioning procedure based on
the non-existence of the infringement imputed to the RGPD, which justifies, in summary, in what
Whats Next:

- That due to an error in sending the documentation to be provided, at the time it was not
attached a copy of the Minutes of the Extraordinary Meeting dated August 19, 2017, in
which it was agreed to improve the security service of the Community through the
video surveillance. This agreement was approved, not being challenged in court by
any neighbor, not even by the claimant. As this is a correctable error,
comes to correct at this time.

- That the proposal of security measures is due to the interest of
increase security in the Community for fear of acts of vandalism. Though
states that it attaches a copy of the Minutes dated 04/08/2017, 08/12/2017 and 08/19/2017
justifications of the existence of legitimate interests for its installation, such as
the protection of the physical integrity of the inhabitants of the Community and the
inviolability of common property, in reality I only attach a printout of
capture of two emails dated July 5 and 8, 2019 linked to the
provision of this documentation.

- That the installation of the video cameras took place after their
approval at the Homeowners' Meeting convened for those sole purposes, so in
In no way has the GDPR been violated.
FIFTH: On July 11, 2019, the claimant's written entry is registered
attaching a document related to the "Security Measures of the System of
video surveillance and access control” of the Community, prepared by ALTATEC
SECURITY.

Subsequently, on July 16, 2019, the written entry of the
claimed reiterating the allegations made previously and attaching the
following documentation: Minutes of the Extraordinary Meeting of the Community, dated
04/08/2017; Minutes of the Ordinary General Meeting of the Community, dated
08/12/2017; Minutes of the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Community, dated
08/19/2017

SIXTH: On December 10, 2019, a resolution proposal is formulated in the
sense that by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
file the actions carried out in the sanctioning procedure of
warning instructed to the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article
58.2.b) of the RGPD, for an infringement of article 6.1.e) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

The aforementioned proposal was addressed both to the defendant and to society
MEDITERRANEAN SERVICES OF INTEGRAL MANAGEMENT, SAU, (hereinafter, MSGI),
entity that had been acting in legal representation of the claimed in some
of the acts involved in the procedure.

On December 21, 2019, the document was returned due to automatic rejection.
notification of the proposed resolution made available to the company MSGI
by electronic means.

On December 26, 2019, the State Post and Telegraph Company,
S.A. returned the notification of the proposed resolution to origin as “Surplus”
sent to the claimant, as the shipment was not withdrawn from the post office by the
claimed, this after having been "Absent" in the two delivery attempts
carried out at the postal address set by the person claimed for the purposes of notifications.

On January 2 and 3, 2020, the Instructor reiterated the attempt to
notification of said proposed resolution to MSGI and the respondent, respectively,
through the Sociedad Estatal Correos y Telégrafos, S.A., stating in the
procedure that the aforementioned act was notified to MSGI on January 8,
2020 and that the State Post and Telegraph Society, S.A. returned the shipment to origin
for "Surplus" dated January 17, 2020, as it was not withdrawn from the
Post office by the claimed after notification attempts
carried out at the domicile of the claimant.

PROVEN FACTS

First.- On July 27, 2018, the entry is registered in the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Claim made by the claimant against the
COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R., (the claimed), whose location appears in
the Antecedent of Fact First of this act, for the installation of a system of
video surveillance without complying with the duty to inform the interested parties affected by said
treatment through the placement of informative signs of the video-monitored area
in sufficiently visible places, both in open and closed spaces, as well
as in places with different accesses such as the pool, the social club and the area
playground of the Community of Owners.
Second.- On May 23, 2018, the defendant and the security company
ALTATEC SYSTEMS, S.L. signed "Installation and Maintenance Contract" of the
security system in which the aforementioned video surveillance cameras are integrated
in the claim.
Third.- The claimed party is responsible for the treatment of the images obtained through
through the video surveillance system installed in the Urbanization in question to
maintain and guarantee the security and control of goods and people at the entrances
and common facilities. The images captured by the cameras that
integrate the video surveillance system are recorded and stored for 30 days.
Fourth.- Through photographic report provided on December 10, 2018,
the defendant has proven that in the accesses and exits, both pedestrian and
vehicles, the Urbanization enclosure has placed an informative sign of
video-monitored area, in which the person claimed is identified as responsible for the
signaled video surveillance treatment, the postal address to which the
Interested parties can go to exercise their rights and it is noted that you can
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

obtain “More information on the processing of personal data in the
corresponding informative forms, which are at your disposal in these
installations." .
Fifth.- On July 16, 2019, the respondent has submitted a copy of the
following documentation:

   - Minutes of the Extraordinary Meeting of the Community, dated April 8,

2017.

- Minutes of the Ordinary General Meeting of the Community, dated August 12
of 2017, in which item No. 5 of the Agenda, under the title “Security Proposals.
Agreements to Take”, detailed three proposals that were based on the expansion of the
Video surveillance system “for the main entrances, central common areas and
all the perimeter corridors connected to an Alarm Receiving Center” and
complemented with other services in each of them. In view of the result of
the vote taken in relation to said point, “of 27 votes in favor of proposals
of security and 17 against" it is stated in said Minutes that it was agreed "to hold a Meeting
Extraordinary for next Saturday, August 19, and re-propose these
options, asking first for the YES or NO to security.”.

- Minutes of the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Community, dated 19

August 2017, which had as the only item on the agenda the following:

1. SECURITY PROPOSALS. AGREEMENTS TO BE TAKEN.
A) Do you want improvements in the Community Security Service?(...)
B) What improvement of the following proposals meets your expectations? (If the
vote in section A has been positive, we will proceed to vote on this section
that it will entail to integrate in the budget of expenses for 2017/2018 the proposal
approved)”. This section detailed three proposals that, at a minimum,
contemplated the extension of the Video Surveillance system for the entrances
main, central common areas and all perimeter corridors connected to
an Alarm Receiving Center, a minimum option that was complemented by other
services in the remaining proposals, each of them assuming an increase
Determined monthly per owner.

This Minutes state that the majority approved the proposal to improve the
Community Security Service, goes to section B) and that, once the
vote of section B) is approved "by majority of those attending OPTION a)". It is
In other words, the "expansion of the Video Surveillance system for the main entrances, areas
central commons and all perimeter corridors connected to a central
Alarm Receiver”. Likewise, “the integration of the
expense of this approved proposal in the expense budget for the fiscal year
2017/2018, which represents an increase of approximately between (...) per owner
and month, depending on your coefficient”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 55.1, 56.2 and 58.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

personal information and the free circulation of these data (General Protection Regulation
of Data, hereinafter RGPD) recognizes each control authority, and according to what
established in articles 47 and 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to resolve this procedure.

II

           The facts analyzed were qualified in the Initiation Agreement of this
disciplinary proceedings as constituting an infraction of section f) of the
article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the same regulation. Nevertheless,
at this stage of the procedure it is considered appropriate to modify the qualification
carried out accusing the defendant of an infraction of section e) of article
6.1 of the RGPD, also typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.
         Regarding whether or not it is appropriate to change the rating in the proposal phase
of the facts object of the claim made in the Initiation Agreement, and to
the impact that such a change may have on the defendant's right to defense,
It should be noted that nothing prevents making this modification as long as, as
Now it happens, the facts on which the imputation is based remain unchanged
formulated.
           Article 53.2 of Law 39/2015, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations, regarding the "Rights of the interested party in the
administrative procedure”, establishes the following:

"two. In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the alleged
responsible will have the following rights:

a)

To be notified of the facts that are imputed to him, of the infractions
that such facts may constitute and of the sanctions that, if applicable, are
could impose, as well as the identity of the Instructor, the competent authority
to impose the sanction and of the norm that attributes such competence.

b)

To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility

Until the contrary is proven.”
           The Constitutional Court has been pointing out that “the essential content of the
constitutional right to be informed of the accusation refers to the facts
considered punishable that are imputed to the accused” (STC 95/1995). (The underline is
of the AEPD).
           On the contrary, and unlike what happens with the facts, the TC, in
Judgment 145/1993 warns that the communication to the alleged offender of the
legal qualification and the eventual sanction to be imposed does not integrate the essential content
the right to be informed of the accusation. To this extent it is important to put
in knowledge of the constitutive facts of the administrative infraction, that the T.C.
has declared that the requirements of article 24.2 of the EC are satisfied
fundamentally with the sole communication of the imputed facts in order to
defend against them (STC 2/1987 and 190/1987).

In this line, the Supreme Court, Judgment of March 3, 2004, indicates
that “the primary purpose of the initiation agreement is to report on the facts

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

imputed and not on the legal qualification, of which the proposal of
resolution". (The underlining is from the AEPD).

III

In the present case, it is a matter of elucidating whether the defendant's conduct conforms to
what is established in the aforementioned article 6 of the RGPD, a precept that establishes the
Specific assumptions under which the processing of data is considered lawful
interested parties. The aforementioned precept establishes the following:

“Article 6. Legality of the treatment
"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:
(…)
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

For these purposes, it is recalled that article 4 of the RGPD, under the rubric

“Definitions”, provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

7) «responsible for the treatment>> or <<responsible>>: the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others,
determine the purposes and means of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the
Member States determines the purposes and means of processing, the data controller
treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment may be established by the
Law of the Union or of the Member States; >>

10) <<third party>>: natural or legal person, public authority, service or
body other than the interested party, the data controller, the person in charge of
treatment and of the persons authorized to treat personal data under the
direct authority of the person in charge or the person in charge;

In accordance with these definitions, the capture of images concerning
to natural persons through the video surveillance cameras that make up the system
of security installed in the different accesses and common areas of the
Urbanization, as well as the subsequent visualization, storage and recording of
said images, constitutes a treatment of personal data with respect to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

which the person responsible for it, in this case the defendant, must comply with the
principle of legality of the treatment collected in article 6.1 of the RGPD.

For its part, Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), in its article 22,
regarding “Processing for video surveillance purposes”, in its sections 1, 3 and 4,
establishes that:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of people and property, as well as their
installations.

(…)
3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that threaten the integrity of persons, property or facilities. In that
case, the images must be made available to the competent authority
within a maximum period of seventy-two hours from the date of knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

The planned blocking obligation will not apply to these treatments.

in article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.”

IV

Considering that the purpose of video surveillance is to guarantee the security of the
people, goods and facilities, the legitimacy of the analyzed treatment is given
by section e) of article 6.1 of the RGPD. In this way, capturing images
by video surveillance cameras in the accesses and common spaces of a community
of owners is incardinated in the sphere of public interest to guarantee the
security of the same, both of the people who use these common areas, as well as
of goods and facilities

On the other hand, given that capturing video surveillance images is
produced in common areas or elements of the Community of Owners, the
installation of the video surveillance system for security purposes must be agreed upon
Board of Owners in accordance with the provisions of articles 14 and 17.3 of Law 49/1960,
of July 21, of Horizontal Property, (hereinafter, LPH).

Thus, article 14 of the aforementioned Law 49/1960 establishes that:
“It corresponds to the Board of Owners:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

a) Appoint and remove the persons who hold the positions mentioned in
the previous article and resolve the claims that the owners of the flats or premises
formulate against their actions.

b) Approve the plan of foreseeable expenses and income and the accounts

corresponding.

c) Approve the budgets and the execution of all the repair works of
the farm, whether ordinary or extraordinary, and be informed of the urgent measures
adopted by the administrator in accordance with the provisions of article 20.c).

d) Approve or amend the statutes and determine the rules of the internal regime.
e) Know and decide on other matters of general interest for the
community, agreeing on the necessary or convenient measures for the best service
common."

Article 17.3 of the aforementioned law, which regulates the Quorums and regime of the

approval of agreements by the Board of Owners, states that:

“The agreements of the Board of Owners will be subject to the following regulations:

(…)

3. The establishment or suppression of porter services, concierge,
surveillance or other common services of general interest, whether or not they involve modification
of the constitutive title or the statutes, will require the favorable vote of the three fifths
parts of the total owners who, in turn, represent three-fifths
of the participation fees.

The same regime will apply to the lease of common elements that are not
assigned a specific use in the property and the establishment or suppression of
equipment or systems, not included in section 1, whose purpose is to improve the
energy or water efficiency of the property. In the latter case, the agreements
validly adopted in accordance with this rule bind all owners. Nope
However, if the equipment or systems have a private use, for the
adoption of the agreement will suffice the favorable vote of a third of the members of the
community that represent, in turn, a third of the participation quotas,
applying, in this case, the cost repercussion system established in said
pulled apart."

v

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

Article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for the

imposition of administrative fines”, in sections 1 and 5.a) states that:

""1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

  "5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned,
according to paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount:

“a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”

At the same time, article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements

considered very serious”, provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

SAW

In the present case, in view of the evidence available in the
moment in which it was agreed to initiate the present sanctioning procedure, it was imputed
to the claimed a possible violation of the principle of legality of the treatment collected
in article 6.1 of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned
Regulation and classified as a very serious infringement for purposes of prescription in the
article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, since it had not proven that the
installation of the video surveillance system in question would have been agreed at the Board
of Owners in the terms provided in the Horizontal Property Law

 In relation to this matter, it is pointed out that the defendant was requested in
repeatedly, specifically, through writings dated October 3, 2018, 27
November 2018 and February 11, 2019, to contribute within the term
indicated a copy of the Minutes of the Community and Owners Meeting in which
approved the installation of video surveillance cameras at entrances and areas

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

of the same, stating in the procedure the effective reception by
of the claimed of said requests for documentation.

Considering that the respondent did not present the Minutes of the Community Meeting
of Owners requested, dated June 13, 2019 the Director of the AEPD
agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed as allegedly responsible
of the processing of personal data of those affected, consisting of the collection,
storage, visualization and recording of the images corresponding to the
people who are in the areas controlled by the security cameras
video surveillance installed at the entrances and common areas of the Community of
Owners, given that the defendant had not accredited, in the form
irrefutable, that the Board of Owners had agreed to install the system of
video surveillance in the common areas in question.

It will not be until July 16, 2019, the date you check in at
this Agency written of allegations of the claimed to the agreement of initiation of the
procedure, which the Community of Owners presents, among other documentation,
copy of the Minutes of the Extraordinary General Meeting held by the respondent with
dated August 19, 2017, in which it appears as approved by a majority of the
attendees the "expansion of the video surveillance system for the main entrances,
central common areas and all perimeter corridors connected to a central
Alarm Receiver”.

Therefore, provided by the respondent the aforementioned Minutes dated 19
August 2017, it is considered that the respondent has justified the legality of the treatment
of personal data that has been carried out through video surveillance cameras
located at the entrances to the Community of Owners and in the areas and
common facilities of the same, - such as the swimming pool, the social club and the
children's games of the Urbanization-, devices that were placed after
dated May 23, 2018, the defendant and the security company ALTATEC
SYSTEMS, S.L. signed "Installation and Maintenance Contract" of the system
of security in which the video surveillance cameras outlined in the
claim.

Thus, accrediting the approval in accordance with the provisions of the LPH of the agreement
in Owners' Meeting regarding the installation of video surveillance cameras in the
places indicated and justified, also, in the Foundations of Law II and III
above that the public interest legitimizes the processing of images with data
information obtained by said chambers, it must be concluded that the person claimed is not
is responsible for the commission of the infraction to the principle of legality of the treatment
charged to him in this proceeding.

Accordingly, the provisions of article 28.1 of the
Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, which establishes
as one of the principles of the sanctioning power that of "Responsibility",
determining in this regard that: "They can only be sanctioned for constitutive acts
of administrative infraction natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law
recognize their capacity to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities
without legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for the same by way of fraud or negligence”.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, and reasoned that the treatment of data studied
is legitimized in letter e) of section 1 of article 6 of the RGPD, the
claimed must rectify the information contained in the informative form that is
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

finds the willingness of the interested parties to complete the information on the
treatment of personal data that is offered to those interested in the posters of
video surveillance area. Specifically, the one that states that “The basis of the treatment is the
legitimate interest in guaranteeing the security of these facilities on the part of its
holder, which justifies that the data is necessarily captured by the fact of
access this enclosure.

Consequently, it is considered opportune to agree to file the proceedings

practiced in this sanctioning procedure against the defendant.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE the actions carried out in the sanctioning procedure
of warning instructed to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R., with NIF
***NIF.1, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, for a
infringement of article 6.1.e) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS R.R.R.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

