 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

July 16, 2020

 
 
 Investigations into the riot night in Stuttgart:
LfDI is calmed down after the police statement
 
The police investigations into the alleged perpetrators, which took place on the night of April 20.
rioted in downtown Stuttgart on June 21, 2020 and physical attacks
n replacements with the police have provided for the past few days
strong criticism of the police. The focus of the discussion was the accusation that the
Zei also asks the registry offices for information about the
Nationality of the parents of the alleged perpetrators, even if they are German
be citizens. The Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI)
Baden-Württemberg then asked questions about the investigative activities of the police,
which have now been answered by the police headquarters in Stuttgart.
 
In its statement, the police headquarters explained that the data
ten surveys alone for the concrete investigation of criminal offenses from the night of the riot
served. Preventive police considerations would not have played a role. The above-
testifies from the point of view of the LfDI above all because after averting the danger
ge on June 21, 2020 "preventive" integration measures of social work as well
little fall within the remit of the police as the preparation of social science
scientific studies on the motives of perpetrators - for this sociologists collect the necessary
gene data, not the police.
 
The Code of Criminal Procedure (§ 163 Paragraph 1 StPO) entitles the police to
to take all measures necessary for their clarification, including the
to collect the data required for this. This can also include
to clarify circumstances of juvenile and adolescent suspects, so
as far as this is necessary for criminal purposes. In this context, can
the social environment also play a role. The civil status register can do this

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

contain information relevant to the investigation in individual cases. Therefore, the data collection
Practice at the registry offices in justified cases by the investigative authority of the
be covered by the police. A standard nationality survey
Parents of criminal suspects, on the other hand, would not be necessary and therefore inadmissible
especially since the ultimately vague concept of "migration background" is not meaningful
has force in criminal proceedings.
 
Overall, the LfDI therefore sees no reason to object to the procedure
the police. However, he suggests closer coordination between the police and the public prosecutor
assist in determining the appropriate investigative measures to prevent
that in police investigations sensitive personal data of criminal
suspects and third parties are collected in the subsequent criminal court
procedures cannot or should not be used.
 
 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-23.
 
Further information on data protection and freedom of information can be found in the
Internet at www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at
www.datenschutz.de.
 
The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.
 
 

