Technological Assessment  
& Studies Unit 
1 / 5 

USER CONTROLS FOR AD PERSONALISATION ON ANDROID 

INTRODUCTION 

The purpose of this technical note is for users to know what the advertising IDs are 
for their devices, why they are used and what control options can be implemented on 
them.  Concretely, the  Android  Advertising  ID  (AAID)1  is  being analysed, making  it  clear 
that the option Android offers users to prevent ad personalisation does not prevent the 
user’s  personal  data  from  being  communicated  to  third  parties.  Developers,  content 
providers and all agents involved in the process should verify user configuration with 
regard to not receiving personalised advertising and not being profiled, respecting this 
choice and avoiding any type of processing of the user’s personal data in this regard, 
including even compiling or transmitting them. 

ANDROID ADVERTISING ID 

In  2014,  with  the  launch  of KitKat,  Android  introduced  an  advertising ID  known  as 
AAID, in line with the Identifier for Advertisers (IDFA) that Apple had already been using 
for some time. This identifier is also known as the Google Advertising ID (GAID). 

IDFA and AAID are  identifiers solely for advertising, which in the case of Android is 
provided  by  the  Google  Play services,  which  users  can  change  at  any time  from their 
mobile  devices.  The  use  of  other  unique  device  identifiers,  such  as  IMEI,  the  MAC 
address or the device serial number, needed to be completely replaced by the use of 
identifiers  such  as  AAID  and  IDFA.  The  programme  policy  for  Google  Play2developers 
establishes  that,  for  any  advertising  purpose,  the  advertising  ID  must  be  used  on  all 
updates  and  new  apps  uploaded  to  Google  Play,  and  not  other  device  identifiers, 
whatever they could be.  

The  objective  alleged  by  Google 
for introducing the AAID is to provide 
users with better controls over their 
privacy, as well as giving developers 
a  system  that  lets  them  continue 
obtaining  income  from  their  apps. 
The improvement for users basically 
consists of being able to change (‘re-
establish’  in  Google  speak)  the  ID, 
which  would  let  them  disassociate 
the device from previously compiled 

1 https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/6048248?hl=es 

                    
Figure 1 

2 Google Play Developer Program Policies 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

 

Technological Assessment  
& Studies Unit 
2 / 5 

 
data, as well as disabling the personalised ads on Google Play applications. 

To find out what the AAID is, change it or disable personalised ads, go to Settings-

>Google->Advertisements, as shown in Figure 1. 

 

The reality is that the possibility of re-
establishing  the  AAID  is  unknown  to  the 
large  majority  of  users, 
its 
existence and use. 

including 

With regard to the effects of disabling 
personalised ads, this is a setting that is 
transferred  to  entities  that  produce  the 
advertising,  and 
it  depends  on  the 
entities  whether  or  not  they  respect 
users’  preferences.  However,  this  does 
not  prevent  the  AAID from  being  sent  by 
some apps and, thus, it does not prevent 
a  continued  construction  of  a  profile 
based on users’ interests or tastes to, for 
example,  use  it  in  the  future  when  the 
personalisation  of  ads  could  be  active 
again. By disabling ad personalisation, Google itself warns that if the user deletes the 
cache,  advertising  personalisation  would  be  activated  again  and  also  warns  of  the 
ineffectiveness  of  the  measure  by  also  stating  that  it  is  possible  that  ads  will  not  be 
based on the user’s interests, but not guaranteeing this in either case. See Figure 2. For 
example,  after  resetting  a  device  to  factory  values  (Nexus  5,  Android  6.0.1),  ad 
personalisation is enabled by default again. Users must do something to disable them 
via  the  menu  set  out  above,  and  not  the  opposite,  which  is  what  should  happen 
pursuant to the default privacy policy of the GDPR. 

Figure 2 

Some  studies3  have  revealed  how  Facebook  can  track  Android  users,  even  users 
without  Facebook  accounts.  In  the  study  How  Apps  on  Android  Share  Data  with 
Facebook,  by  Privacy  International,  over  30  apps  were  analysed,  concluding  that  over 
61% of them send data to Facebook when the user opens the app. Other studies4 claim 
that  up  to  42%  of  free  apps  on  the  Google  Play  Store  could  be  sharing  data  with 
Facebook. 

How these ad IDs work is relatively simple. While using an app that uses this type of 
technology,  a  message  is  sent  with  specific  information  on  the  event  when  the  user 
does  specific  actions,  along  with the  corresponding ID  to  a specific  entity,  which  can 
therefore keep a log of events related to a concrete device. Information on  the event 
can be very different depending on each concrete application. We will use the AZ Screen 
Recorder5 app as an example, which uses Facebook advertising services, installed on an 
Android device with ad personalisation enabled. When the application is running, there 

                                                 
3 How Apps on Android Share Data with Facebook, Privacy International 

4 Measuring third party tracker power across web and mobile: Reuben Binns‚ Jun Zhao‚ Max Van Kleek and 
Nigel Shadbolt 2018 

5 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.hecorat.screenrecorder.free&hl=es 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

 

Technological Assessment  
& Studies Unit 
3 / 5 

 
are communications with Facebook servers, during which the AAID is sent, along with 
other information, including and meriting mention the app name. The AAID is sent via a 
POST request to graph.facebook.com within the IDFA6 parameter, and the app name in 
the field BUNDLE. See Figure 3. 

 

Figure 3 

 
If  the  same  app  is  run  on  the  same  device,  but  this  time  with  ad  personalisation 

disabled, a very similar POST request is sent, as can be seen in Figure 4. 

 

 

 

Figure 4 

Despite the new setting, the AAID and the name of the app that is being run continue 
to be sent to graph.facebook.com. The only difference can be found in the IDFA_FLAG 
parameter, whose value in this second case is 0, which is used to tell the Facebook API 
that the user does not want the ad shown in the app to be based on his or her likes or 
interests.  

This  means  that  the  action  of  disabling  advertising  based  on  users’  likes  and 
interests for apps only indicates, in this case to Facebook, that personalised ads should 
not be returned, but does not prevent Facebook from continuing to compile user data 
and associating them with an advertising ID, such as the name of the app that sent the 
request, due to which it can continue creating a profile based on the applications that 
are  run.  As  mentioned above,  this  data  compilation  occurs  regardless  of  whether  the 
device user is registered on Facebook.7 

                                                 
6 https://developers.facebook.com/docs/app-ads/targeting/mobile-advertiser-ids/?locale=es_ES 

7 How Apps on Android Share Data with Facebook, Privacy International 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

 

Technological Assessment  
& Studies Unit 
4 / 5 

 

Figure 5 shows a sending of the AAID while running an app with a sexual subject.8 
The  simple  fact  of  opening  this  app  leads  to  communicating  the  AAID  to 
graph.facebook.com, indicating not only the app name, but other information, such as 
the  location  of  the  device  ‘Europe/Madrid’,  the  model  ‘Nexus  5’  and  the  language 
‘es_ES’. This sending occurs regardless of whether or not ad personalisation is disabled. 

 

  

Figure 5 

 

RECOMENDATIONS FOR APP DEVELOPERS 

App developers should bear in mind that  sending personal data to a third party is 
considered personal data processing, for which a legal basis is required and, as such, 
must also comply with all principles applicable to data processing established by the 
GDPR, including the data minimisation principle. Before including a third party SDK on 
an app, developers must assess the risks for user privacy that they could be introducing 
and  thoroughly  study  the  different  privacy  setting  options  that  the  SDK  may  offer, 
heeding default privacy principles and in their designs. In short, they must try to provide 
users with default settings that protect their privacy and real options that let them not 
be the object of tracking. 

Those who make the implementation of these types of techniques available to SDK 
developers  must  also  facilitate  compliance  with  all  GDPR  principles,  including  the 
principles of privacy by design and by default. 

In  parallel,  developers  of  operating  systems  for  any  types  of  device  must  provide 
users  with  real  control  over  their  personal  data,  in  this  case  real  control  over  their 
advertising ID, letting them not only change it, but also prevent apps and libraries from 
being able to access this ID if users do not give permission for their use with a specific 
purpose. 

                                                 
8 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.rubisoft.gaycuddles 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

 

Technological Assessment  
& Studies Unit 
5 / 5 

 
RECOMENDATIONS FOR USERS 

For users who want to avoid profiling, they must disable ad personalisation on their 
devices, despite the limitations on the effectiveness of this measure in many cases, also 
reset  the  AAID  frequently  and  keep  only  those  apps  installed  on  the  device  that  are 
useful and provide an adequate confidence level. A critical attitude must be kept, and 
only  choose  products  from  developers  complying  with  their  obligations  as  personal 
data controllers. 

 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

