 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines 2/2020 on articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of 

Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal data between 

EEA and non-EEA public authorities and bodies 

 

Version 2.0 

 

Adopted on 15 December 2020 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adopted 

 

1 

 

Version history 

Version 2.0 
 
Version 1.0 
 

 

 

 

15 December 2020 

Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation 

18 February 2020 

Adoption of the Guidelines for public consulation 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

 

Table of contents 

1  General ............................................................................................................................................ 5 

1.1  Purpose .................................................................................................................................... 5 

1.2  General rules applicable to international transfers ................................................................. 6 

1.3  Definition of a public authority or body .................................................................................. 6 

2  General Recommendations for the Appropriate Safeguards under both articles 46 (2) (a) and 

46 (3) (b) GDPR ................................................................................................................................ 7 

2.1  Purpose and scope ................................................................................................................... 8 

2.2  Definitions ................................................................................................................................ 8 

2.3  Data protection principles ....................................................................................................... 8 

2.3.1 Purpose limitation principle ............................................................................................ 8 

2.3.2 Data accuracy and minimisation principles ..................................................................... 8 

2.3.3 Storage limitation principle ............................................................................................. 9 

2.3.4 Security and confidentiality of data ................................................................................ 9 

2.4  Rights of the data subjects ....................................................................................................... 9 

2.4.1 Right to Transparency ................................................................................................... 10 

2.4.2 Rights of access, to rectification, erasure, restriction of processing and to object ...... 10 

2.4.3 Automated individual decision-making ......................................................................... 11 

2.4.4 Right to Redress ............................................................................................................. 11 

2.4.5 Restrictions to the Rights of the data subjects .............................................................. 11 

2.5  Restrictions on onward transfers and sharing of data (including disclosure and government 

access) .................................................................................................................................... 12 

2.6  Sensitive data ......................................................................................................................... 13 

2.7  Redress mechanisms .............................................................................................................. 13 

2.8  Supervision mechanisms ........................................................................................................ 15 

2.9  Termination clause ................................................................................................................ 16 

3 

Specific information on article 46 GDPR ....................................................................................... 17 

3.1  Specific information on legally binding and enforceable instruments  - Article 

46 (2) (a) GDPR ....................................................................................................................... 17 

3.2  Specific information on administrative arrangements - Article 46 (3) (b) GDPR ................... 17 

4 

Procedural questions ..................................................................................................................... 19 

 

 
 

 

 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter “GDPR”), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 

 

 

 

                                                           
1 References to “Member States” made throughout these guidelines should be understood as references to 
“EEA Member States”. 
 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

1  GENERAL 

1.1  Purpose 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

This document seeks to provide guidance as to the application of Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of 
the  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (GDPR)  on  transfers  of  personal  data  from  EEA  public 
authorities or bodies (hereafter “public bodies”) to public bodies in third countries or to international 
organisations,  to  the  extent  that  these  are  not  covered  by  an  adequacy  finding  adopted  by  the 
European Commission2. Public bodies may choose to use these mechanisms, which the GDPR considers 
more  appropriate  to  their  situation,  but  are  also  free  to  rely  on  other  relevant  tools  providing  for 
appropriate safeguards in accordance with Article 46 GDPR. 

The  guidelines  are  intended  to  give  an  indication  as  to  the  expectations  of  the  European  Data 
Protection  Board  (EDPB)  on  the  safeguards  required  to  be  put  in  place  by  a  legally  binding  and 
enforceable  instrument  between  public  bodies  pursuant  to  Article 46 (2) (a) GDPR  or,  subject  to 
authorisation  from  the  competent  supervisory  authority  (SA),  by  provisions  to  be  inserted  into 
administrative  arrangements  between  public  bodies  pursuant  to  Article 46 (3) (b) GDPR.3  The  EDPB 
strongly recommends parties to use the guidelines as a reference at an early stage when envisaging 
concluding or amending such instruments or arrangements.4  

The guidelines are to be read in conjunction with other previous work done by the EDPB (including 
endorsed  documents  by  its  predecessor,  the  Article 29  Working  Party5  (“WP29”))  on  the  central 
questions of territorial scope and transfers of personal data to third countries6. The guidelines will be 
reviewed and if necessary updated, based on the practical experience gained from the application of 
the GDPR. 

The present guidelines cover international data transfers between public bodies occurring for various 
administrative cooperation purposes falling within the scope of the GDPR. As a consequence and in 
accordance with Article 2 (2) of the GDPR, they do not cover transfers in the area of public security, 
defence  or  state  security.  In  addition,  they  do  not  deal  with  data  processing  and  transfers  by 
competent authorities for criminal law enforcement purposes, since this is governed by a separate 
specific  instrument,  the  law  enforcement  Directive7.  Finally,  the  guidelines  only  focus  on  transfers 
between public bodies and do not cover transfers of personal data from a public body to a private 
entity or from a private entity to a public body. 

                                                           
2 For example Japanese public bodies, which are not covered by the Japan Adequacy Decision as it only covers 
private sector organisations.  
3 These guidelines use the term "international agreements" to refer to legally binding and enforceable 
instruments pursuant to Article 46(2)(a) GDPR and to administrative arrangements pursuant to Article 46(3)(b) 
GDPR. 
4 Art. 96 GDPR states that agreements that were concluded prior to 24 May 2016 shall remain in force until 
amended, replaced or revoked. 
5 The Working Party of EU Data Protection Authorities established under Article 29 of the Data Protection 
Directive 95/46/EC. 
6 See Article 29 Working Party, Adequacy Referential (WP254 rev.01, endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018), 
EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679 and EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 
on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3). 
7 Directive (EU) 2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or 
prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data. 

Adopted 

 

5 

 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

1.2  General rules applicable to international transfers 

According to Article 44 of the GDPR the data exporter transferring personal data to third countries or 
international organisations must, in addition to complying with Chapter V of the GDPR, also meet the 
conditions of the other provisions of the GDPR. In particular, each processing activity must comply with 
the  data  protection  principles  in  Article 5 GDPR,  be  lawful  in  accordance  with  Article 6 GDPR  and 
comply  with  Article 9 GDPR  in  case  of  special  categories  of  data.  Hence,  a  two-step  test  must  be 
applied:  first,  a  legal  basis  must  apply  to  the  data  processing  as  such  together  with  all  relevant 
provisions  of  the  GDPR;  and  as  a  second  step,  the  provisions  of  Chapter V  of  the  GDPR  must  be 
complied with. 

The  GDPR  specifies  in  its  Article 46  that  “in  the  absence  of  a  decision  pursuant  to  Article 45(3),  a 
controller or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or an international organisation 
only  if  the  controller  or  processor  has  provided  appropriate  safeguards,  and  on  condition  that 
enforceable  data  subject  rights  and  effective  legal  remedies  for  data  subjects  are  available”.  Such 
appropriate safeguards may be provided for by a legally binding and enforceable instrument between 
public  bodies  (Article 46 (2) (a) GDPR)  or,  subject  to  authorisation  from  the  competent  SA,  by 
provisions  to  be  inserted  into  administrative  arrangements  between  public  bodies  which  include 
enforceable  and  effective  data  subject  rights  (Article 46 (3) (b) GDPR).  As  clarified  by  the  Court  of 
Justice of the European Union (CJEU), such appropriate safeguards must be capable of ensuring that 
data  subjects  whose  personal  data  are  transferred  are  afforded  a  level  of  protection  essentially 
equivalent to that which is guaranteed within the EEA.8 

Aside  from  this  solution  and  in  its  absence,  Article 49 of  the  GDPR  also offers a  limited  number of 
specific  situations  in which  international  data  transfers  may  take  place  when  there  is  no  adequacy 
finding  by  the  European  Commission9.  In  particular,  one  exemption  covers  transfers  necessary  for 
important reasons of public interest recognised in Union law or in the law of the Member State to 
which  the  controller  is  subject,  including  in  the  spirit  of  reciprocity  of  international  cooperation10. 
However, as explained in previous guidance issued by the EDPB, the derogations provided by Article 
49 GDPR must be interpreted restrictively and mainly relate to processing activities that are occasional 
and non-repetitive11. 

1.3  Definition of a public authority or body 

The GDPR does not define what constitutes a ‘public authority or body’. The EDPB considers that this 
notion is broad enough to cover both public bodies in third countries and international organisations.12 
With respect to public bodies in third countries, the notion is to be determined under domestic law. 
Accordingly, public bodies include government authorities at different levels (e.g. national, regional 
and  local  authorities),  but  may  also  include  other  bodies  governed  by  public  law  (e.g.  executive 
agencies,  universities,  hospitals,  etc.).13  In  accordance  with  Article 4 (26)  GDPR,  ‘international 

                                                           
8 Court of Justice of the European Union, Case C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland 
and Maximillian Schrems (“Schrems II”), para. 96. 
9 For further information on Article 49 and its interplay with Article 46 in general, please see EDPB Guidelines 
2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679. 
10 See EDPB Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, page 10. 
11 See EDPB Guidelines on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, page 5. 
12 See also recital 108 of the GDPR. 
13 See, e.g. the definition of ‘public sector body’ and ‘body governed by public law’ in Article 2 (1) and (2) of 
Directive 2003/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of 
public-sector information (OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, page 90). 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

organisation’ refers to an organisation and its subordinate bodies governed by public international law, 
or any other body which is set up by, or on the basis of, an agreement between two countries.  

9. 

The EDPB recalls that the application of the GDPR is without prejudice to the provisions of international 
law, such as the ones governing the privileges and immunities of international organisations. At the 
same  time,  it  is  important  to  recall  that  any  EEA  public  body  transferring  data  to  international 
organisations  has  to  comply  with  the  GDPR  rules  on  transfers  to  third  countries  or  international 
organisations.14 

2  GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE APPROPRIATE 

SAFEGUARDS UNDER BOTH ARTICLES 46 (2) (a) AND 46 (3) (b) 
GDPR 

10.  Unlike  Article 26 (2)  of  the  95/46/EC  Directive,  Article 46  of  the  GDPR  provides  for  additional 

appropriate safeguards as tools for transfers between public bodies: 

(i)  a legally binding and enforceable instrument, Article 46 (2) (a) GDPR or 
(ii)  provisions to be inserted into administrative arrangements, Article 46 (3) (b) GDPR. 

These instruments and arrangements may be of bilateral or multilateral nature. 

11. 

The  following  section  provides  some  general  recommendations  to  help  ensure  that  legally  binding 
instruments or administrative arrangements (hereinafter “international agreements”) between public 
bodies are in compliance with the GDPR.  

12.  Although Article 46 and recital 108 of the GDPR do not provide specific indications on the guarantees 
to be included in such international agreements, taking into account Article 44 of the GPDR15 and the 
recent CJEU case law16 the EDPB hereby has elaborated a list of minimum safeguards to be included in 
international  agreements  between  public  bodies  falling  under  Articles 46 (2) (a)  or  46 (3) (b) GDPR. 
These safeguards aim to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons under the GDPR is not 
undermined when  their  personal  data  is  transferred  outside  of  the  EEA  and  that  data  subjects are 
afforded a level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EU by the GDPR.17 

13. 

In accordance with the recent CJEU case law18, it is the responsibility of the transferring public body in 
a Member State, if needed with the help of the receiving public body, to assess whether the level of 
protection required by EU law is respected in the third country, in order to determine whether the list 
of safeguards included in the international agreement can be complied with in practice, taking into 
account the possible interference created by the third country legislation with compliance with these 
safeguards.  

                                                           
 
14 See EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR, p. 23. 
15 Article 44 of the GDPR states: “All provisions of this Chapter shall be applied in order to ensure that the level 
of protection of natural persons guaranteed by this Regulation is not undermined.” 
16 CJEU, July 16, 2020, Judgment in case C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and 
Maximillian Schrems (“Schrems II”). 
17 CJEU, July 16, 2020, Judgment in case C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and 
Maximillian Schrems (“Schrems II”), para 105. 
18 Idem. 

Adopted 

 

7 

 

14. 

In  this  respect,  it  should  also  be  noted  that,  to  ensure  the  safeguards  listed  in  these  guidelines, 
international agreements can build on already existing elements in the national law of a third country 
or the internal rules/regulatory framework of an international organisation. 

2.1  Purpose and scope 

15. 

International  agreements  should  define  their  scope  and  their  purposes  should  be  explicitly  and 
specifically determined. In addition, they should clearly state the categories of personal data affected 
and  the  type  of  processing  of  the  personal  data  which  is  transferred  and  processed  under  the 
agreement. 

2.2  Definitions 

16. 

International agreements should contain definitions of the basic personal data concepts and rights in 
line with the GDPR relevant to the agreement in question. By way of example, such agreements should, 
if  referenced,  include  the  following  important  definitions:  “personal  data”, “processing  of  personal 
data”, “data controller”, “data processor", “recipient” and “sensitive data”. 

2.3  Data protection principles 

17. 

International  agreements  shall  contain  specific  wording  requiring  that  the  core  data  protection 
principles are ensured by both parties. 

2.3.1  Purpose limitation principle 

18. 

19. 

20. 

International agreements need to specify the purposes for which personal data is to be transferred 
and processed including compatible purposes for further processing, as well as to ensure that the data 
will not be further processed for incompatible purposes. Compatible purposes may include storing for 
archiving  purposes  in  the  public  interest,  as  well  as  processing  for  scientific  or  historical  research 
purposes or statistical purposes. It is recommended, for better clarity, that the specific purposes for 
the processing and transferring of the data are listed in the international agreement itself. 

To  avoid  any  risk of  a “function  creep”,  such  agreements  should  also  specify that  transferred  data 
cannot be used for any purpose other than those expressly mentioned in the agreement, except as set 
out in the paragraph below. 

If both parties to the international agreement wish to allow the receiving public body to make another 
compatible use of the transmitted personal data, further use by the receiving public body shall only be 
permitted if compatible with the original one and previously notified to the transferring public body 
which may oppose for specific reasons. 

2.3.2  Data accuracy and minimisation principles 

21. 

The international agreement must specify that the data transferred and further processed must be 
adequate, relevant  and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes  for which they are 
transmitted and further processed.  

22. 

In practice, this data minimisation principle is important to avoid the transfer of personal data when 
they are inadequate or excessive. 

23.  Moreover, data should be accurate and up to date, having regard to the purposes for which they are 
processed. An international agreement must therefore provide that the transferring party will ensure 

Adopted 

 

8 

 

that the personal data transferred under the agreement is accurate and, where applicable, up to date. 
In addition, the agreement should provide that, if one of the parties becomes aware that inaccurate 
or out of date data has been transmitted or is being processed, it must notify the other party without 
delay. Finally, the agreement should ensure that, where it is confirmed that data transmitted or being 
processed is inaccurate, each party processing the data shall take every reasonable step to rectify or 
erase the information. 

2.3.3  Storage limitation principle 

24.  Parties must  ensure  that  the  international  agreement  contains a  data  retention  clause. This  clause 
should specify in particular that personal data shall not be retained indefinitely but shall be kept in a 
form which permits identification of data subjects only for the time necessary for the purpose for which 
it was transferred and subsequently processed. That may include storing it for as long as necessary for 
archiving  purposes  in  the  public  interest,  scientific  or  historical  research  purposes  or  statistical 
purposes,  provided  that  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  are  put  in  place  to 
safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, such as additional technical measures (e.g. 
security measures, pseudonymisation) and access restrictions. When a maximum retention period is 
not already set in national legislation or the internal rules/regulatory framework of an international 
organisation, a maximum retention period should be set in the text of the agreement. 

2.3.4  Security and confidentiality of data  

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

 

The  parties  should  commit  to  ensure  the  security  and  the  confidentiality  of  the  personal  data 
processing and transfers they carry out.  
In particular, the parties should commit to having in place appropriate technical and organisational 
measures to protect personal data against accidental or unlawful access, destruction, loss, alteration, 
or unauthorised disclosure. These measures may include, for example, encryption including in transit, 
pseudonymisation, marking information as personal data transferred from the EEA, restricting who 
has  access  to  personal  data,  providing  secure  storage  of  personal  data,  or  implementing  policies 
designed to ensure personal data are kept secure and confidential. 
The level of security should take into consideration the risks, the state of the art and the related costs. 

 

The international agreement may furthermore specify that, if one of the parties becomes aware of a 
personal data breach, it will inform the other party (ies) as soon as possible and use reasonable and 
appropriate means to remedy the personal data breach and minimise the potential adverse effects, 
including by communicating to the data subject a personal data breach, without undue delay, where 
that personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and  freedoms of the natural 
person. 
It is recommended that the notification timeline for a personal data breach as well as the procedures 
for communication to the data subject are defined in the international agreement.  

2.4  Rights of the data subjects 

The international agreement must ensure enforceable and effective data subject rights as specified in 
article 46 (1) and recital 108 of the GDPR.  

The rights available to the data subjects, including the specific commitments taken by the parties to 
provide for such rights, should be listed in the agreement. To be effective, the international agreement 
must provide for mechanisms that ensure their application in practice. Moreover, any breach of data 
subject rights must carry an appropriate remedy.  

Adopted 

 

9 

 

2.4.1  Right to Transparency 

29.  Parties  must  ensure  that  the  international  agreement  contains  clear  wording  describing  the 

transparency obligations of the parties.  

30. 

Such obligations should include on the one hand, a general information notice with, as a minimum, 
information on how and why the public bodies may process and transfer personal data, the relevant 
tool used for the transfer, the entities to which such data may be transferred, the rights available to 
data  subjects  and  applicable  restrictions,  available  redress  mechanisms  and  contact  details  for 
submitting a dispute or claim. 

31.  However, it is important to recall that, for the transferring public body, a general information notice 
on the website of the public body concerned will not suffice. Individual information to data subjects 
should be made by the transferring public body in accordance with the notification requirements of 
Articles 13 and 14 GDPR19.  
The  international  agreement  can  also  provide  for  some  exceptions  to  such  individual  information. 
These exceptions are limited and should be in line with the ones provided under Article 14 (5) GDPR, 
for  example  where  the  data  subject  already  has  the  information  or  where  the  provision  of  such 
information proves impossible or would involve a disproportionate effort. 

 

32. 

The parties must commit to make the international agreement available to data subjects on request 
and  to  make  the  international  agreement  or  the  relevant  provisions  providing  for  appropriate 
safeguards publicly available on their website. To the extent necessary to protect sensitive or other 
confidential information, the text of the international agreement may be redacted prior to sharing a 
copy  or  making  it  publicly  available.  Where  necessary  to  allow  the  data  subject  to  understand  the 
content of the international agreement, the parties must provide a meaningful summary thereof.  

2.4.2  Rights of access, to rectification, erasure, restriction of processing and to object 

33. 

The international agreement should safeguard the data subject’s right to obtain information about and 
access to all personal data relating to him/her that are processed, the right to rectification, erasure and 
restriction of processing and where relevant the right to oppose to the data processing on grounds 
relating to his or her particular situation.  

34.  As regards the right of access, the international agreement should specify that individuals shall have 
the right vis-à-vis the receiving public body to obtain confirmation as to whether or not personal data 
concerning him/her is being processed, and if that is the case, access to that data; as well as to specific 
information  concerning  the  processing,  including  the  purpose  of  the  processing,  the  categories  of 
personal  data  concerned, the  recipients  to whom  personal  data  is  disclosed,  the  envisaged  storage 
period and redress possibilities. 

35. 

The  agreement  should  furthermore  specify  when  these  rights  can  be  invoked  and  include  the 
modalities on how the data subjects can exercise these rights before both parties as well as on how 
the  parties  will  respond  to  such  requests.  For  example,  with  respect  to  deletion,  the  international 
agreement could state that data is to be deleted when the information has been processed unlawfully 
or is no longer necessary for the purpose of processing. Moreover, the international agreement should 
stipulate  that  the  parties  will  respond  in  a  reasonable  and  timely  manner  to  requests  from  data 
subjects.  The  international agreement could also state  that  the  parties may take  appropriate  steps, 

                                                           
19 See EDPB Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, WP 260 rev.01, pages 13 to 22. 

Adopted 

 

10 

 

36. 

37. 

38. 

such as charging reasonable fees to cover administrative costs where requests from a data subject are 
manifestly unfounded or excessive, in particular because of their repetitive character. 

The international agreement should also allot an obligation of the transferring public body to provide 
information to the data subject, once his/her personal data have been transferred, on the action taken 
on his/her request under the rights provided for by the international agreement without undue delay 
by setting an appropriate time limit (e.g. one month). Finally, information should be provided to the 
data subject, if the  parties do not  take  action on the request of the data subject,  without  delay  by 
setting an appropriate time limit (e.g. within one month of receipt of the request), of the reasons for 
not taking action and on the possibility of lodging a complaint and of seeking a judicial remedy.  

The international agreement can also provide for exceptions to these rights. For example, exceptions 
to the right of access and deletion such as the ones provided under Article 15 (4) and 17 (3) GDPR could 
be  provided.  Similarly,  exceptions  to  individual  rights  could  be  foreseen  where  personal  data  is 
processed for scientific or historical research purposes, statistical purposes, or archiving purposes, in 
so far as such rights would be likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of these 
specific  purposes,  and  provided  that  appropriate  safeguards  are  put  in  place  (e.g.  technical  and 
organisational measures, including pseudonymisation).  Finally, the  agreement may provide that the 
parties may decline to act on a request that is manifestly unfounded or excessive. 

2.4.3  Automated individual decision-making 

If relevant to the agreement in question, international agreements should as a general principle contain 
a  clause  stating  that  the  receiving  public  body  will  not  take  a  decision  based  solely  on  automated 
individual decision-making, including profiling, producing legal effects concerning the data subject in 
question  or  similarly  affecting  this  data  subject.  Where  the  purpose  of  the  transfer  includes  the 
possibility for the receiving public body to take decisions solely on automated processing in the sense 
of Article 22 GDPR, this should only take place under certain conditions set forth in the international 
agreement, such as the need to obtain the explicit consent of the data subject. If the decision does not 
comply with such conditions, the data subject should have the right not to be subject to it. Where it 
allows automated individual decision-making, the international agreement should, in any case, provide 
for necessary safeguards, including the right to be informed about the specific reasons underlying the 
decision and the logic involved, to correct inaccurate or incomplete information, and to contest the 
decision and obtain human intervention.  

2.4.4  Right to Redress 

39. 

The safeguarded data subject rights have to be enforceable and effective. Therefore, the data subject 
must have access to redress. Different examples of ways to offer redress mechanisms are indicated 
below under sections 2.7 and 3. 

2.4.5  Restrictions to the Rights of the data subjects 

40. 

The  international  agreement  can  also  provide  for  restrictions  to  the  rights  of  data  subjects.  These 
restrictions should be in line with the restrictions envisaged by Article 23 GDPR. Such a restriction has 
to  be  a  necessary  and  proportionate  measure  in  a  democratic  society  to  safeguard  important 
objectives of public interest, in line with the ones listed in Article 23(1) GDPR, including the rights and 
freedom  of  others,  national  security,  defence  or  the  prevention,  investigation,  detection  or 
prosecution  of  criminal  offences.  It  needs  to  be  provided  by  law  or,  in  the  case  of  international 

Adopted 

 

11 

 

organisations, the applicable internal rules/regulatory framework, and shall continue only for as long 
as the reason for the restriction continues to exist.  

2.5  Restrictions on onward transfers and sharing of data (including disclosure and 

government access) 

41.  Onward transfers by the receiving public body or international organisation to recipients not bound by 
the agreement should, as a rule, be specifically excluded by the international agreement. Depending 
on the subject matter and the particular circumstances at hand, the parties may find it necessary to 
allow  onward  transfers.  In  this  case,  under  the  condition  that  the  purpose  limitation  principle  is 
respected20, the international agreement should foresee that such onward transfers can only take place 
if  the  transferring  public  body  has  given  its  prior  and  express  authorisation  and  the  receiving  third 
parties  commit  to  respect  the  same  data  protection  principles  and  safeguards  as  included  in  the 
international agreement. This should include a commitment to provide to data subjects the same data 
protection rights and guarantees as provided in the international agreement in order to ensure that 
the level of protection will not be diminished if data are onward transferred. 

42.  As a rule, the same safeguards as for onward transfers should apply to sharing of personal data within 
the same country, i.e. the international agreement shall exclude this onward sharing and exemptions 
should  in  general  only  be  allowed  if  the  transferring  public  body  has  given  its  prior  and  express 
authorization and the receiving third parties commit to respect the same data protection principles 
and safeguards as included in the international agreement.  

43. 

44. 

45. 

46. 

It is recommended that before requesting the express authorisation of the transferring public body the 
receiving  public  body  or  international  organisation  provides  sufficient  information  on  the  type  of 
personal data that it intends to transfer/share, the reasons and purposes for which it considers it to be 
necessary to transfer/share the personal data as well as, in case of onward transfers, the countries or 
international organisations to which it intends to onward transfer personal data so as to be able to 
assess the third country legislation or, in the case of international organisations, the applicable internal 
rules/regulatory framework. 

In cases where it is necessary to allow sharing of personal data with a third party in the same country 
of  the  receiving  public  body  or  another  international  organisation,  the  sharing  could  be  allowed  in 
specific circumstances either with prior and express authorization of the transferring public body or as 
long  as  there  is a  binding commitment  from  the  receiving third  party  to  respect  the  principles  and 
guarantees included in the international agreement.  

In  addition,  the  international  agreement  could  specify  exceptional  circumstances  in  which  onward 
sharing could take place without prior authorisation or the abovementioned commitments in line with 
the  derogations  listed  in  Article  49  of  the  GDPR,  for  example  when  this  specific  sharing  would  be 
necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or other persons or necessary for 
the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. Such exceptional circumstances could also arise 
if the onward sharing is required under the law of the receiving party, as necessary for directly related 
investigations/ court proceedings. 

In the cases mentioned in the paragraph above, the international agreement should clearly state the 
specific and exceptional circumstances under which such data sharing is allowed. The receiving public 
body or international organisation should also be obliged to notify the transferring public body prior 
to the sharing and include information about the data shared, the receiving third party and the legal 
                                                           
20 See above under 2.3.1. 

Adopted 

 

12 

 

basis for the sharing. In its turn the transferring public body should keep a record of such notifications 
from the receiving public body or international organisation and provide its SA with this information 
upon request. Where providing such notification prior to the sharing will impinge on confidentiality 
obligations provided for by law, e.g. to preserve the confidentiality of an investigation, the specific 
information  should  be  provided  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  sharing.  In  such  a  case,  general 
information on the type of requests received over a specified period of time, including information 
about the categories of data requested, the requesting body and the legal basis for disclosure, should 
be provided to the transferring body at regular intervals. 

47. 

In all of the above scenarios, the international agreement should only allow disclosures of personal 
data to other public authorities in the third country of the receiving public body that do not go beyond 
what  is  necessary  and  proportionate  in  a  democratic  society  to  safeguard  important  objectives  of 
public  interest  in  line  with  the  ones  listed  in  Article 23 (1)  GDPR  and  in  accordance  with  the 
jurisprudence of the CJEU. In order to assess a possible access by third country public authorities for 
surveillance purposes, the transferring public authority should take into account the elements recalled 
in the four European Essential Guarantees21. These include the availability of an effective remedy for 
data subjects  in the third country of the receiving public body if their personal data is accessed by 
public  authorities.22  In  case  of  transfers  to  international  organisations,  any  such  access  must  be  in 
compliance with international law and without prejudice in particular to the privileges and immunities 
of the international organisation. 

48.  Depending on the case at hand, it may be useful to require to include an annex to the international 
agreement  enumerating  the  laws  governing  onward  sharing  with  other  public  bodies  including  for 
surveillance purposes in the destination country. Any changes to this annex should be notified to the 
transferring party within a set period of time.  

2.6  Sensitive data 

49. 

50. 

If an international agreement provides for the transfer of sensitive personal data within the meaning 
of Article 9 (1) of the GDPR, additional safeguards addressing the specific risks, to be implemented by 
the receiving public body or international organisation, should be included. These could, for example, 
include restrictions as access restrictions, restrictions of the purposes for which the information may 
be  processed,  restrictions  on  onward  transfers,  etc.  or  specific  safeguards,  e.g.  additional  security 
measures, requiring specialized training for staff allowed to access the information.  

2.7  Redress mechanisms 

In order to guarantee enforceable and effective data subjects rights the international agreement must 
provide for a system that enables data subjects to continue to benefit from redress mechanisms after 
their data has been transferred to a non EEA country or an international organisation. These redress 
mechanisms  must  provide  recourse  for  individuals  who  are  affected  by  non-compliance  with  the 
provisions of the chosen instrument and thus the possibility for data subjects whose personal data 
have been transferred from the EEA to lodge complaints regarding such non-compliance and to have 
these  complaints  resolved.  In  particular,  the  data  subject  must  be  ensured  an  effective  route  to 
complain to the public bodies that are parties to the international agreement and (either directly or 

                                                           
21 See EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures. 
22 See EDPB Recommendations 02/2020, Guarantee D, p. 13 and seq. 

Adopted 

 

13 

 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

after  having  addressed  the  relevant  party)  to  an  independent  oversight  mechanism.  Moreover,  a 
judicial remedy should, in principle, be available.  

First, the receiving public body should commit to put in place a mechanism to effectively and timely 
handle  and  resolve  complaints  from  data  subjects  concerning  compliance  with  the  agreed  data 
protection  safeguards.  Moreover,  data  subjects  should  be  provided  with  the  possibility  to  obtain 
effective administrative redress before an independent oversight body, including, where available, an 
independent data protection authority23. 

Second, the agreement should allow for a judicial remedy including compensation for damages - both 
material and non-material - as a result of the unlawful processing of the personal data. If there is no 
possibility to ensure effective judicial redress, for example due to restrictions in the domestic law or 
the  specific  status  of  the  receiving  public  body,  e.g.  international  organisations,  the  international 
agreement must provide for alternative safeguards. Those alternative safeguards must offer the data 
subject guarantees essentially equivalent to those required by Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental 
Rights of the European Union (EU Charter)24. 

In that case, the international agreement could create a structure which enables the data subject to 
enforce its rights outside the courts, for example through quasi-judicial, binding mechanisms such as 
arbitration or alternative dispute resolution mechanisms such as mediation, which would guarantee 
an independent review and bind the receiving public body25. Moreover, the public body transferring 
the personal data could commit to be liable for compensation of damages through unlawful processing 
of the personal data which are testified by the independent review. 
Exceptionally, other, equally independent and effective redress mechanisms could be put in place by 
the agreement, for instance effective redress mechanisms implemented by international organisations.  

 

For all of the abovementioned redress mechanisms, the international agreement should contain an 
obligation for the parties to inform each other of the outcome of the proceedings, in particular if a 
complaint of an individual is dismissed or not resolved.  

The  redress  mechanism  must  be  combined  with  the  possibility  for  the  transferring  public  body  to 
suspend  or  terminate  the  transfer  of  personal  data  under  the  international  agreement  where  the 
parties  do  not  succeed  in  resolving  a  dispute  amicably  until  it  considers  that  the  issue  has  been 
satisfactorily addressed by the receiving public body. Such a suspension or termination, if carried out, 
must be accompanied by a commitment from the receiving public body to return or delete the personal 
data. The transferring public body must notify the suspension or termination to the competent national 
SA.  

 

 

                                                           
23 See also section 2.8 on supervision mechanism. 
24 CJEU, July 16,2020, Judgment in case C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and 
Maximillian Schrems (“Schrems II”), paras 96, 186 and seq. 
25 CJEU, October 6, 2015, Judgment in case C-362/14, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner 
(“Schrems”), paras 41 and 95; ECJ July 16,2020, Judgment in case C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v 
Facebook Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems (“Schrems II”), paras 186,187,189, 195 and seq. 

Adopted 

 

14 

 

2.8  Supervision mechanisms 

56. 

57. 

58. 

In order to make sure that all obligations created under the international agreement are fulfilled, the 
international agreement must provide for independent supervision monitoring the proper application 
of the agreement and interferences with the rights provided under the agreement.  

First, the agreement should provide for internal supervision ensuring compliance with the agreement. 
Each party to the agreement should conduct periodic internal checks of the procedures put in place 
and of the effective  application of the  safeguards provided in the agreement.  The periodic internal 
checks should also verify any changes in legislation that would prevent the party (ies) to comply with 
the data protection principles and safeguards included in the international agreement.  Moreover, it 
could be provided that a party to the agreement can also request from another party to the agreement 
to conduct such a review. The international agreement must require that the parties must respond to 
inquiries  from  the  other  party  concerning  the  effective  implementation  of  the  safeguards  in  the 
agreement. Each party conducting a review should communicate the results of the checks to the other 
party (ies) to the agreement. Ideally, such communication should also be made to the independent 
oversight mechanism governing the agreement.  

In addition, the international agreement must include the obligation that a party informs the other 
party without delay if it is unable to effectively implement the safeguards in the agreement for any 
reason. For this case the international agreement must foresee the possibility for the transferring public 
body to suspend or terminate the transfer of personal data under the international agreement to the 
receiving public body until such time as the receiving public body informs the transferring public body 
that it is again able to act consistent with the safeguards. The transferring body must notify the change 
of situation as well as the suspension of transfers or termination of the agreement to the competent 
national SA.  

59. 

Secondly,  the  agreement  must  provide  for  independent  supervision  in  charge  of  ensuring  that  the 
parties comply with the provisions set out in the agreement. This follows directly from the EU Charter26 
and the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR)27 in accordance with the jurisprudence of the 
European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) and in the terms established in primary law 28 as well as the 
corresponding case law. 

                                                           
26 Articles 7, 8 and 47 of the EU Charter. 
27 Article 8 ECHR. 
28 Article 6 Lisbon Treaty  
“1.The Union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the 
European Union of 7 December 2000, as adapted at Strasbourg, on 12 December 2007, which shall have the 
same legal value as the Treaties. 
The provisions of the Charter shall not extend in any way the competences of the Union as defined in the 
Treaties.  
The rights, freedoms and principles in the Charter shall be interpreted in accordance with the general provisions 
in Title VII of the Charter governing its interpretation and application and with due regard to the explanations 
referred to in the Charter, that set out the sources of those provisions.  
2. The Union shall accede to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental 
Freedoms. Such accession shall not affect the Union's competences as defined in the Treaties.  
3. Fundamental rights, as guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and 
Fundamental Freedoms and as they result from the constitutional traditions common to the Member States, 
shall constitute general principles of the Union's law.” 

Adopted 

 

15 

 

60. 

61. 

62. 

63. 

The CJEU, has, since 201529, reiterated the necessity of having an independent redress and supervision 
mechanism.30 Likewise, the ECtHR has frequently highlighted in its rulings that any interference with 
the right to respect for private life as enshrined in Article 8 ECHR needs to be subject to an effective, 
independent and impartial oversight system31.  

The agreement could, for example, invoke oversight by a competent supervisory authority, if there is 
one in the country of the public body receiving the EEA personal data, even if the GDPR does not specify 
that  the  competent  supervisory  authority  needs  to  be  the  external  oversight  body.  Moreover,  the 
agreement could include the voluntary commitment of the receiving party to cooperate with the EEA 
SAs. 

In the absence of a supervisory authority specifically in charge with the supervision of data protection 
law in the third country or at the international organisation, the need for an independent, effective and 
impartial  supervisory  oversight  mechanism  needs  to  be  fulfilled  by  other  means.  The  type  of 
independent supervision mechanism put in place may depend on the case at hand.  

The agreement could, for example, refer to existing oversight bodies in the third country other than a 
supervisory authority in the area of data protection. In addition, if no external independent oversight 
can  be  ensured  from  a  structural  or  institutional  point  of  view,  e.g.  because  of  the  privileges  and 
immunities of certain international organisations, oversight could be guaranteed through functionally 
autonomous  mechanisms.  The  latter  must  be  a  body  that,  while  not  external  itself,  carries  out  its 
functions  independently,  i.e.  free  from  instructions,  with  sufficient  human,  technical  and  financial 
resources, etc. The receiving party shall be bound by the decisions of the oversight body.  

2.9  Termination clause 

64. 

The international agreement should envisage that any personal data transferred from the EEA pursuant 
to  the  international  agreement  prior  to  its  effective  termination  shall  continue  to  be  processed  in 
accordance with the provisions of the international agreement.  

 

 

                                                           
29 CJEU, October 6, 2015, Judgment in case C-362/14, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner 
(“Schrems”), paras 41 and 95. 
30 CJEU, July 27, 2017, Opinion 1/15 on the agreement envisaged between the European Union and Canada on 
the transfer of Passenger Name Record data, 26 July 2017, para. 228 and seq.; CJEU, 30 April 2019, Opinion 
1/17 on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, para. 
190 and seq. 
31 ECtHR, September 6, 1978, Klass, v. Germany, para. 55 and 56. The requirement stemming from the ECtHR 
also apply to any interference with Articles 7 and 8 of the EU Charter since, according to Article 52 (3) 
EU Charter, the meaning and scope of these fundamental rights shall be the same as those laid down by 
Article 8 ECHR. 

Adopted 

 

16 

 

3  SPECIFIC INFORMATION ON ARTICLE 46 GDPR 

3.1  Specific information on legally binding and enforceable instruments 

 - Article 46 (2) (a) GDPR 

65.  Article 46 (2) (a) GDPR allows EEA public bodies to base transfers to public bodies in a third country or 
an  international  organisation  on  instruments  concluded  between  them  without  obtaining  prior 
authorisation  from  a  SA.  Such  instruments  have  to  be  legally  binding  and  enforceable.  Therefore, 
international  treaties,  public-law  treaties  or  self-executing  administrative  agreements  may  be  used 
under this provision.  

66.  Any  legally  binding  and  enforceable  instrument  should  encompass  the  core  set  of  data  protection 

principles and data subject rights as required by the GDPR. 

67. 

68. 

69. 

70. 

71. 

72. 

The  parties  are  obliged  to  commit  themselves  to  putting  sufficient  data  protection  safeguards  for 
transferring data into place. As a consequence, the agreement should also set out the way in which the 
receiving public body will apply the core set of basic data protection principles and data subject rights 
to all transferred personal data in order to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons under 
the GDPR is not undermined. 

If  there  is  no  possibility  to  ensure  effective  judicial  redress  in  legally  binding  and  enforceable 
instruments so that alternative redress mechanism have to be agreed upon, EEA public bodies should 
consult the competent SA before concluding these instruments.  

Even if the form of the instrument is not decisive as long as it is legally binding and enforceable, the 
EDPB considers that the best option would be to incorporate detailed data protection clauses directly 
within the instrument. If, however, this solution is not feasible due to the particular circumstances, the 
EDPB  strongly  recommends  incorporating  at  least  a  general  clause  setting  out  the  data  protection 
principles directly within the  text of the  instrument and inserting the more detailed provisions and 
safeguards in an annex to the instrument.  

3.2  Specific information on administrative arrangements - Article 46 (3) (b) GDPR 

The GDPR in its Article 46 (3) (b) also provides for alternative instruments in the form of administrative 
arrangements,  e.g.  Memorandum  of  Understanding  “MOU”,  providing  protection  through  the 
commitments taken by both parties in order to bring their common arrangement into force. 

In  this  respect,  Article 46 (1)  and  recital 108  of  the  GDPR  specify  that  these  arrangements  have  to 
ensure enforceable data subject rights and effective legal remedies. Where safeguards are provided for 
in administrative arrangements that are not legally binding, authorisation by the competent SA has to 
be obtained.  

It  should  be  carefully  assessed  whether  or  not  to  make  use  of  non-legally  binding  administrative 
arrangements to provide safeguards in the public sector, in view of the purpose of the processing and 
the nature of the data at hand. If data protection rights and redress for EEA individuals are not provided 
for  in  the  domestic  law  of  the  third  country  or  the  internal  rules/regulatory  framework  of  the 
international  organisation,  preference  should  be  given  to  concluding  a  legally  binding  agreement. 
Irrespective of the type of instrument adopted, the measures in place have to be effective to ensure 
the appropriate implementation, enforcement and supervision. 

Adopted 

 

17 

 

73. 

74. 

75. 

In administrative  arrangements  specific  steps have to be  taken to ensure effective  individual rights, 
redress  and  oversight.  In  particular,  to  ensure  effective  and  enforceable  rights,  a  non-binding 
instrument  should  contain  assurances  from  the  public  body  receiving  the  EEA  personal  data  that 
individual rights are fully provided by its domestic law and can be exercised by EEA individuals under 
the same conditions as is the case for citizens and residents of the concerned third country. The same 
applies  if  administrative  and  judicial  redress  is  available  to  EEA  individuals  in  the  domestic  legal 
framework  of  the  receiving  public  body.  Similarly,  international  organisations  should  provide 
assurances  about  individual  rights  provided  by  their  internal  rules,  as  well  as  the  available  redress 
mechanisms. 

If this is not the case, individual rights should be guaranteed by specific commitments from the parties, 
combined  with  procedural  mechanisms  to  ensure  their  effectiveness  and  provide  redress  to  the 
individual. These specific commitments and procedural mechanisms must make it possible, in practice, 
to ensure compliance with the level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the 
EU by the GDPR.  
Such procedural mechanisms may, for example, include commitments of the parties to inform each 
other of requests from EEA individuals and to settle disputes or claims in a timely fashion.  

 

In addition, in case such disputes or claims cannot be resolved in an amicable way between the parties 
themselves,  independent  and  effective  redress  to  the  individual  must  be  provided  by  alternative 
mechanisms, for example through a possibility for the  individual to have recourse  to an alternative 
dispute resolution mechanism, such as arbitration or mediation. Such alternative dispute resolution 
mechanism must be binding32.   

76.  Depending on the case at hand, a combination of all or some of the above measures should be provided 
for in the administrative agreement in order to ensure effective redress. Other measures not included 
in  these  guidelines  could  also  be  acceptable  as  long  as  they  provide  for  independent  and  effective 
redress.  

77. 

Each  administrative  arrangement  developed  in  accordance  with  Article  46 (3) (b) GDPR  will  be 
examined by the competent SA on a case by case basis, followed by the relevant EDPB procedure, if 
applicable. The competent SA will base its examination on the general recommendations set out in 
these guidelines, but might also ask for more guarantees depending on the specific case. 

 

 

                                                           
32 CJEU, July 16, 2020, Judgment in case C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and 
Maximillian Schrems (“Schrems II”), paras 189, 196 and seq. 

Adopted 

 

18 

 

4  PROCEDURAL QUESTIONS 

78.  Administrative arrangements established under Article 46 (3) (b) GDPR will be examined on a case-by-
case  basis  due  to  the  requirements  for  an  authorisation  by  the  competent  SA  which,  according  to 
Article 46 (4) GDPR  shall  apply  the  consistency  mechanism  pursuant  to  Article 64 (2) GDPR.  When 
integrating  alternative  redress  mechanisms  in  binding  and  enforceable  instruments  pursuant  to 
Article 46 (2) (a) GDPR, the EDPB recommends also seeking advice from the competent SA. The EDPB 
strongly advises to consult the competent SA at an early stage. 

 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

 

19 

