1/5

 File No.: EXP202104470

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), on September 17,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claimant states that they have delivered a receipt issued by Cemeteries of
Barcelona, S.A. (hereinafter CBSA) absence from work, due to the
death of his father, to a third party (his brother-in-law).
Work in the file Resolution dated 09/13/2021, of the Director of the Authority
Catalan Data Protection, by which the transfer of the actions is agreed
prior to the AEPD. As can be deduced from the actions of information
prior, the entity that would have delivered the aforementioned work receipt to the brother-in-law of the
complainant could be one of the two funeral service companies that
managed the funeral service: Servicios Funerarios de Barcelona, S.A. (company to
who CBSA delivered the supporting document) or Altima Servicios Funerarios, S.L. (company that
managed the funeral service of the deceased, at the request of the relatives, substituting
SFBSA).
SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to Funeral Services
of Barcelona, S.A. and Altima Servicios Funerarios, S.L., to proceed with their
analysis and inform this Agency, within a month, of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification, was received in
both cases, on November 22, 2021, as stated in the acknowledgments of
receipt that work in the file.

On the part of Servicios Funerarios de Barcelona, S.A., no response has been received to
this letter of transfer.

On behalf of Altima Servicios Funerarios, S.L., on December 16, 2021, it was
receives in this Agency a letter of response, in which it is shown that it does not
may be responsible for having erroneously delivered the proof of
absence from work since he was never in possession of it.

THIRD: On December 17, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, it is communicated that the claim has been admitted for processing, having
Three months have elapsed since it entered the AEPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FOURTH: On March 11, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for alleged violations of articles 5.1.f) of the RGPD and
32 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD, respectively.

The initiation agreement was sent, in accordance with the regulations established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on March 16, 2022, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned initial agreement, Funeral Services of Barcelona,
S.A submitted a pleadings brief in which, in summary, it stated that it could not
having committed the act because he had no intervention in the organization of the
burial of the deceased and, consequently, could not have access to the data of any
family, among them, those of the claimant, for which he requests that the
termination of the sanctioning procedure and filing of the proceedings.

To this end, I attach a certificate issued by the Corporate Director of Systems of the
Information from Grupo Mémora (in which SFBSA is located), indicating that in the
computer systems of the group of companies does not show any trace of data
referring to this man and certificate from the Director of Operations of SFBSA,
stating that the funeral was not organized and, therefore, there was no access to the data
of the complaining party.

SIXTH: On April 26, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

<< That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agrees
proceed to file these proceedings.>>

The aforementioned motion for a resolution was sent, in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by electronic notification,
being received on May 4, 2022, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

SEVENTH: The respondent party has not submitted arguments to the Proposal for
Resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that, as of September 17, 2021, the part
The claimant filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
due to a security breach of personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

SECOND: From the prior information actions it is clear that the entity
that he would have delivered the aforementioned work receipt to the complainant's brother-in-law could
be one of the two funeral service companies that managed the service
funeral: Funeral Services of Barcelona, S.A. (company to whom CBSA delivered the
supporting document) or Altima Servicios Funerarios, S.L. (company that managed the service
funeral of the deceased, at the request of the relatives, substituting SFBSA).
Altima Servicios Funerarios, S.L., on December 16, 2021, declares
I manifest that he cannot be responsible for having delivered the wrongly
proof of absence from work since he was never in possession of it.

THIRD: Funeral Services of Barcelona, S.A. states that there could not be
committed the act because he had no intervention in the organization of the funeral
of the deceased and, consequently, could not have access to the data of any relative,
including those of the claimant. The documentation provided is incorporated
to the file.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

To the Sanctioning Administrative Law, due to its specialty, they are applicable, with
some qualification, but without exceptions, the inspiring principles of the penal order,
being clear the full virtuality of the principle of presumption of innocence.

As the Constitutional Court has repeatedly affirmed, 'the presumption of innocence
ence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and must be respected in
the imposition of any sanctions, whether criminal or administrative, since the
exercise of ius puniendi in its various manifestations is conditioned by art.
24.2 of the Constitution to the game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in the
that they can defend their own positions.” (Judgment no. 74/2004, of 22
April, of the Second Chamber of the Constitutional Court).

In this sense, the Constitutional Court, in Judgment 76/1990, considers that the right
right to the presumption of innocence entails “that the sanction is based on acts or
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

evidence of charge or incriminating of the reproached conduct; that the load
of the evidence corresponds to the person who accuses, without anyone being obliged to prove their
pious innocence; and that any insufficiency in the results of the tests carried out,
freely assessed by the sanctioning body, it must be translated into a pronouncement
acquittal”.

In accordance with this approach, article 28.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1,
bre, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector establishes as one of the principles of the
sanctioning power, that of "Responsibility", determining in this regard that:

“Only those that constitute an administrative infraction may be sanctioned
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt”.

Likewise, what is established in article 53.2 of Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
case, states that:

“In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of procedures
administrative acts of a punitive nature, the alleged perpetrators will have
the following rights: (…)

 b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while

the contrary is not proven”.

In short, the application of the principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing a
administrative infraction when the existence of
supporting evidence of the facts that motivate this imputation.

In the case at hand, based on the actions carried out, it has not been
possible to determine the identity of the subject to whom the responsibility for
the facts denounced, therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the precepts
mentioned above, the filing of these proceedings proceeds.

According to the background information in the file, Funeral Services of Barcelona
Lona S.A would have been, according to what he affirms, the company to which CBSA delivered the supporting document.
tea.

For its part, it is known that the company ALTIMA SERVICIOS FUNERARIOS S.L would have
was the organizer of the funeral. However, he states that he was never in possession
of the receipt.

Finally, Servicios Funerarios de Barcelona, S.A., insists that it was not she who
arranged the funeral. With this, it denies having had access to any certificate with data
of the complainant, nor having committed the act that would give rise to this procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.
 
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SERVEIS FUNERARIS DE
BARCELONA, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

