DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Plymouth City Council (‘the council’) in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of 
the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in respect of 
certain infringements of the UK GDPR.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Plymouth City 
Council in respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 12 (3) which states the controller shall provide information 

on action taken on a request under Articles 15 to 22 to the data 
subject without undue delay and in any event within one month of 
receipt of the request. That period may be extended by two further 
months where necessary, taking into account the complexity and 
number of the requests. The controller shall inform the data subject 
of any such extension within one month of receipt of the request, 
together with the reasons for the delay. Where the data subject 
makes the request by electronic form means, the information shall 
be provided by electronic means where possible, unless otherwise 
requested by the data subject. 

•  Article 15 (1) (right of access by the data subject) which states the 

data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller 
confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him or 
her are being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the 
personal data. 

•  Article 15 (3) (right of access by the data subject) which states the 

controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing 
processing. 

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
Article 12 (3) 
 
The ICO considers that the council has failed to provide information to the 
data subject without undue delay and in any event within one month of 
receipt of the request. That period may be extended by two further 
months where necessary, taking into account the complexity and number 

 

1 

of requests. The compliance rates in relation to subject access requests 
(SAR) have not been adequate over the last three years.  
 
Article 15 (1 and 3) 

The ICO considers that the council has failed to provide access to personal 
data and provide copies of the personal data owing to the significant 
delays in SAR responses. These delays have been occurring over the last 
three years. 

For SARs that have been completed within the statutory one month 
deadline by the council, the highest compliance rate over the last three 
years is 45% for the year of 2021/2022. For SARs completed within a 90 
day period the highest compliance rate is 77% for the year 2022/2023; 
however, at the time of writing, this compliance rate was correct as of 29 
September 2022. 

In total, 18 SARs took up to two years to complete and there are eight 
SARs up to two years old which have still not been completed. A further 
18 SARs then took between three months and one year for completion. As 
of 31 January 2023, there are still 20 SARs which are up to one year old 
that have not been completed yet. 

Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation, we have noted that the council have 
taken some mitigating action, such as: 
 

•  SARs are logged and tracked with key performance indicators (KPIs) 

being produced for senior management on a monthly basis. 

•  The list and allocation of current SARs are assessed weekly in an 

attempt to drive productivity and minimise complaints. 

•  Investments have been made in the management team to 

maximise productivity in the team. 

•  Overtime has been offered to current staff following Chief Executive 

approval. 

•  A total investment of £110,000 made in improving the capacity of 

the team. This increased the team capacity from 2.6 FTE to 5.6 FTE 
from April 2021 to August 2022. In addition to this, a staff member 
from another team also provided assistance. 

 
Remedial steps taken by Plymouth City Council 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Plymouth City Council in the light of this incident. In particular 
the investments made in order to increase the capacity of the team; 

 

2 

including the employment of new staff to assist in tackling the SAR 
backlog. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to Plymouth City Council in relation to the 
infringements of Article 12 (3) and Article 15 of the UK GDPR set out 
above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that Plymouth City Council should take 
certain steps to ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular 
reference to Article 12 (3) and Article 15 of the UK GDPR, the following 
steps are recommended: 
 

1.  The council should take all steps to ensure SARs are responded to 

within the statutory deadlines, in line with Articles 12 (3), 15 (1) 
and 15 (3) of the UK GDPR. 

2.  The council should continue to monitor SAR compliance data. 
3.  The council should action the remaining outstanding SARs for 

completion. 

4.  The council should consider any additional improvements that can 

be made to the SAR handling process at the council. 

5.  The council should ensure that it has adequate staff resource in 

place to process and respond to SARs. 

6.  The council should provide staff in all departments of the council 

with appropriate training in order that all employees can recognise a 
SAR. The council should also consider the way in which the 
completion of this training monitored, to ensure that staff have 
completed this within a specified and appropriate timeframe. 
 

 

 

3 

