•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

To: 

Join  the Triboo  Limited 

Of: 

26-28 Hammersmith Grove,  Office  808,  London,  England,  W6  7BA 

1. 

The  Information Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided to 

issue Join  the Triboo  Limited  ("JTT")  with  an  Enforcement Notice  under 

section  40  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA").  The  Notice is  being 

issued  because  of a serious contravention  of Regulation  22  of the 

Privacy  and  Electronic Communications (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003 

("PECR"). 

2. 

This  Notice explains the Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

JTT,  whose  registered  office  is  given  above  (Companies House 

Registration  Number:  07152223)  is the organisation  stated  in  this 

notice to  have transmitted  unsolicited  communications  by  means  of 

electronic mail  to individual  subscribers for the purposes of direct 

marketing  contrary to regulation  22  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  22 of PECR  states: 

1 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(1)  This 

regulation  applies 

to 

the 

transmission  of  unsolicited 

communications  by  means  of  electronic  mail 

to 

individual 

subscribers. 

(2)  Except in  the circumstances referred to  in  paragraph  (3),  a  person 

shall neither transmit,  nor instigate the transmission of,  unsolicited 

communications  for the purposes  of direct marketing  by means of 

electronic  mail  unless  the  recipient  of  the  electronic  mail  has 

previously notified the  sender that he  consents  for the  time  being 

to such  communications being sent by,  or at the  instigation  of,  the 

sender. 

(3)  A  person  may send  or instigate  the  sending  of electronic  mail for 

the purposes of direct marketing where-

(a)  that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 

of that electronic mail in  the course of the sale or 

negotiations for the sale  of a product or service to that 

recipient; 

(b)  the direct marketing is  in  respect of that person's similar 

products and services only;  and 

(c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 

(free of charge except for the costs of the  transmission  of 

the refusal)  the use  of his contact details for the purposes 

of such direct marketing,  at the time that the details  were 

initially collected,  and,  where he did not initially refuse  the 

use  of the details,  at the time of each subsequent 

communication. 

(4)  A subscriber shall not permit his line  to be  used in  contravention of 

paragraph (2)." 

2 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

5. 

Section  122(5) of the  Data  Protection  Act  2018 "DPA18" defines direct 

marketing  as "the communication (by whatever means)  of advertising 

or marketing material which  is  directed to particular individuals".  This 

definition  also applies for the  purposes of PECR  (see  regulation  2(2) 

PECR  and  paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule  19 of the  DPA18). 

6. 

Consent in  PECR,  between  29  March  2019  and  31  December 2020, was 

defined  by reference to the  concept of consent in  Regulation  2016/679 

("the GDPR"):  regulation  8(2)  of the  Data  Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019.  Article  4(11)  of the GDPR  sets out the following  definition: 

"'consent' of the data subject means any freely given,  specific, 

informed and unambiguous indication  of the data subject's wishes  by 

which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 

signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data  relating to him 

or her". 

7. 

Recital  32  of the GDPR  materially states that "When  the processing has 

multiple purposes,  consent should be  given  for all of them".  Recital  42 

materially  provides  that  "For  consent to  be  informed,  the  data  subject 

should  be  aware  at least  of the  identity  of the  controller".  Recital  43 

materially  states  that  "Consent  is  presumed not to  be  freely  given  if it 

does  not allow separate  consent to  be  given  to  different personal data 

processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case". 

8. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a living individual 

and includes an  unincorporated body of such  individuals". 

9. 

A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

3 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

10. 

"Electronic mail" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "any text, 

voice,  sound or image message sent over a public electronic 

communications network which  can  be stored in  the network or in  the 

recipient's terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 

includes messages sent using a short message service". 

11.  The  DPA  contains  enforcement provisions at Part V which  are 

exercisable  by the Commissioner.  Those  provisions are  modified and 

extended  for the  purposes  of PECR  by Schedule  1  PECR. 

12.  Section  40(1)(a)  of the  DPA  (as extended  and  modified  by  PECR) 

provides that if the  Commissioner is  satisfied  that a  person  has 

contravened  or is  contravening  any of the  requirements of the 

Regulations,  he  may serve  him  with  an  Enforcement Notice  requiring 

him to take within  such  time as  may be  specified  in  the  Notice,  or to 

refrain  from  taking  after such  time as  may be  so  specified,  such  steps 

as  are  so  specified. 

13.  PECR  were  enacted  to protect the  individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the electronic communications sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

14.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the  purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the  introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20 to the  DPA18. 

4 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The contravention 

15.  The  Commissioner finds that JTT  contravened  regulation  22  of PECR  as 

follows: 

16.  The  Commissioner finds that between  1 August 2019 to  19 August 

2020,  107 million  direct marketing emails were  received  by 

subscribers.  The  Commissioner finds that JTT transmitted those direct 

marketing  messages,  contrary to regulation  22  of PECR. 

17. 

JTT,  as  the sender of the  direct marketing,  is  required to ensure that it 

is  acting  in  compliance  with the  requirements of regulation  22  of PECR, 

and  to ensure that valid  consent to send  those  messages had  been 

obtained. 

18. 

In this instance JTT  is  required to demonstrate that the consent is 

freely given,  specific,  informed,  and  contains  an  unambiguous 

indication  from  the individual  via  an  affirmative action. 

19.  Consent is  required to be "specific" as  to the type of marketing 

communication to be  received,  and  the organisation,  or specific type  of 

organisation, that will  be  sending  it. 

20.  Consent will  not be  "informed" if individuals do  not understand  what 

they are  consenting to.  Organisations should  therefore  always ensure 

that the language  used  is  clear,  easy to understand,  and  not hidden 

away in  a privacy policy or small  print.  Consent will  not be  valid  if 

individuals are  asked to agree to receive  marketing from  or on  behalf 

of "similar organisations", "partners", "selected third  parties" or other 

similar generic description. 

21.  The  consent statement for 

and 

simply states "I agree  with  marketing activity". 

5 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

It is  not specific and  does not inform  an  individual  as  to what 

marketing  activity will  take place,  via  what means,  nor who the 

marketing will  be  by or on  behalf of.  Indeed, the privacy policy states 

that marketing may be  carried  out for 'third  parties' who may operate 

in  'any business  sector' and  are  referred to as  'business  partners' and 

'clients'.  There  is then  a list of broad  generalised  categories  and 

subcategories of organisations on  behalf of which  marketing may be 

sent.  This  statement was  active on  three  out of four job websites, 

which  obtained  96.8%  of the 'consents' obtained  by JTT during the 

relevant period. 

22.  The 

consent statement is  more descriptive,  but 

is  neither specific nor informed.  It refers to receipt of emails on  behalf 

of 'selected  companies' and  contains  broad  categories,  including 

'general'.  Individuals could  not possibly be  informed  as  to what a 

'general' company might be.  The  privacy policy is the same  as  detailed 

above. 

23.  The 

consent statement pre-packages all  the  consent 

channels  into a single  statement and  thus cannot be  said  to be  specific. 

It is  also  not informed  as  it does  not describe that any  marketing will 

occur,  instead  stating that 'communications' will  be  sent.  Again, the 

privacy  policy is the same  as  the job websites  save  that it includes 

details of three  named 'business  partners' or 'clients'. 

24.  The  Commissioner has  considered  the  consents  obtained  by JTT  and 

finds that in  each  case  they do  not comply with the requirements of 

Article  4(11)  of the GDPR. 

25.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  from  the evidence  he  has seen 

that JTT  did  not have the necessary valid  consent for the  107 million 

direct marketing messages received  over the  relevant period. 

6 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

26.  As  the data  was  not collected  during the course  of a sale  or negotiation 

between JTT and the recipients  of the  emails, the Commissioner is 

satisfied that the provisions of regulation  22(3)  PECR  ("the soft opt-in") 

do  not apply in  this case. 

27.  The  Commissioner has  considered,  as  he  is  required  to do  under 

section  40(2)  of the  DPA  (as  extended  and  modified  by PECR)  when 

deciding  whether to serve  an  Enforcement Notice, whether any 

contravention  has caused  or is  likely to cause  any person  damage or 

distress.  The  Commissioner has decided that it is  likely that JTT's 

actions  had the potential to,  or did,  cause  damage or distress to the 

subscribers who  received  the unlawful  marketing  messages. 

28. 

In view of the matters referred to above the Commissioner 
hereby gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under 
section 40 of the DPA, he requires JTT to take the steps 
specified in Annex 1  of this Notice. 

29.  There  is  a right of appeal  against this Notice to the  First-tier Tribunal 

(Information  Rights),  part of the General  Regulatory Chamber. 

Information  about appeals is  set out in  the  attached Annex  2. 

Dated the  12th day of April  2023 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

7 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

TERMS OF THE  PROPOSED  ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

JTT  shall  within  30  days of the date of this notice: 

•  Except in  the  circumstances referred  to in  paragraph  (3)  of 

regulation  22  of PECR,  neither transmit,  nor instigate the 

transmission  of,  unsolicited  communications for the  purposes  of 

direct marketing by means of electronic mail  unless the  recipient of 

the electronic mail  has  previously notified JTT that he  clearly  and 

specifically consents for the time being to such  communications 

being  sent by,  or at the instigation  of,  JTT. 

8 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 2 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  48 of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person  upon 

whom  an  Enforcement Notice has  been  served  a right of appeal  to the 

First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the "Tribunal")  against the 

Notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the Notice  against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance  with the  law;  or 

b) 

to the extent that the  Notice  involved  an  exercise  of discretion  by 

the Commissioner, that he  ought to have  exercised  he  discretion 

differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the  appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made by the Commissioner.  In  any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the  appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice  of appeal  on  the Tribunal 

at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory  Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

Telephone:  0203 936 8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

9 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  The  notice  of appeal  should  be  served  on  the Tribunal  within  28 

days of the  date  on  which  the enforcement notice was  sent 

4. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier Tribunal 

(General  Regulatory Chamber)  are  contained  in  sections 48 and  49 of, 

and  Schedule  6 to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal 

Procedure  (First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules 

2009 (Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

10 

