1/12

 File No.: EXP202208440

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 13, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against CONSULTING
PERITACIONES ALMERIENSE, S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the
Agreement transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202208440

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On 07/11/2022, two documents entered this Agency
Presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), through which it formulates
claim against CONSULTORÍA PERITACIONES ALMERIENSES, S.L. with NIF
B04855128 (hereinafter, the claimed party), for a possible breach of the
provided in the personal data protection regulations.

The reasons on which both claims are based are the following:

"The right of access to my personal data was requested, being delivered a burofax
on 06/03/2022, but no response has been received.

Likewise, on its website it offers a contact form, and does not indicate any
information on data processing or the person responsible for the file, attached
Delivery test."

“The company website http://www.peritacionesmarcelino.com/contacto/ offers
contact, but at no time notifies the processing of the data, nor the
responsible for the file.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

Nor does it provide information on their right of access, or their withdrawal or
modification.

Neither about cookies.”

Attach the following documentation:

-

Photograph of acknowledgment of receipt of the burofax sent to the claimed party in
dated 06/02/2022, which was delivered on 06/03/2022.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), on 08/03/2022 the claim was transferred to the party
claimed, so that it proceeds to its analysis and informs this Agency within the term
of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of availability, understood as rejected
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP dated 08/14/2022, as stated
in the certificate in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming that
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, under
informative, a copy was sent by postal mail that was "Returned to origin by
surplus (not withdrawn in the office)" on 09/19/2022. In said letter, he was reminded
their obligation to interact electronically with the Administration, and they will be
informed of the means of access to said notifications, reiterating that, as far as
successively, you will be notified exclusively by electronic means.

No response has been received to this letter of transfer.

THIRD: On 10/11/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 12/07/2022, this Agency accessed the website
www.peritacionesmarcelino.com, being verified that it continues without incorporating
the proper privacy policy and that cookies are not reported. only facilitates
in the "Contact" section your phone and email.

Regarding the collection of personal data, on the website there is a form of
contact that allows any user to make the queries they deem appropriate,
having to complete a series of sections that collect the following data:
name and email.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

breached obligation

The purpose of the GDPR is to guarantee the right to data protection of the
Physical persons. Article 4.1 of the GDPR understands by "personal data": "all
information about an identified or identifiable natural person (“the data subject”); HE
An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person whose identity can be
be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as
for example a name, an identification number, location data, a
online identifier or one or more elements of physical identity,
physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social of said person;”.

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction;”.

Treatment must be governed by the principles listed in article 5 of the
GDPR, which provides:

“The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("lawfulness, loyalty and transparency");

(…)”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

Manifestation of the principle of transparency is the obligation incumbent on the
data controllers to inform, under the terms of article 13 of the GDPR, the
owner of the personal data when they are obtained directly from the interested party:

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time they are obtained, will provide you with
all the information listed below:

a) The identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their

representative;

to)

b)

the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;

the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is used and the basis
legal treatment;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests

legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

d)

recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, in
Their case;

e) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a
adequacy decision of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers
indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph,
reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and to the means to obtain
a copy of these or the fact that they have been provided.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the data is obtained
personal data, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not

possible, the criteria used to determine this term;

to)

the existence of the right to request the data controller access to
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of your treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right
to data portability;

b) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9(2)(a), the existence of the right to withdraw the
consent at any time, without affecting the legality of the
treatment based on consent prior to its withdrawal;

c) the right to file a claim with a control authority;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

d) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences
not to provide such data;

and)

the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and
expected consequences of such processing for the data subject.

3. When the person responsible for the treatment plans the subsequent processing of data
personal information for a purpose other than that for which it was collected, will provide the
data subject, prior to said further processing, information about that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under section 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

In this sense, Recital 60 of the GDPR says that "The principles of treatment
fair and transparent demand that the interested party be informed of the existence of the
treatment operation and its purposes. The data controller must provide the
interested party, as much complementary information as is necessary to guarantee a
fair and transparent treatment, taking into account the circumstances and context
in which the personal data is processed. You must also inform the
concerned of the existence of profiling and the consequences of
said elaboration. If personal data is obtained from data subjects, it is also
must inform them of whether they are obliged to provide them and of the consequences in case
that they didn't."

Classification and classification of the offense

II

The facts revealed by the complaining party materialize in the lack of
privacy policy and information about cookies on the web
http://www.peritacionesmarcelino.com. In advance, he sent a burofax to the party
claimed exercising the right of access to your personal data, without obtaining
answer.

In light of the documents in the administrative file, it is evident
that the website in question lacks the proper privacy policy. In this case,
it is mandatory to incorporate it since the claimed party, through the
contact, can collect personal data (name and email) and,
therefore, make a treatment of them.

In accordance with article 13 of the GDPR, the claimed party, in its capacity as responsible
of the treatment, you must provide various information that you have dispensed with in your
whole. Specifically, it is obliged to inform about its contact information, being
those that appear on the website are insufficient since only the mobile phone and email appear
electronic. Nor does it inform about the legal basis of the treatment, the recipients

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

of the personal data, the period during which it will keep them or, not being
possible to fix it, on the criteria used to determine it. nor that the users
They can exercise the rights of access, rectification, deletion, limitation of their
treatment, opposition to the treatment and portability of the data; or submit a
complaint to the control authority.

However, regarding the question of cookies, this Agency has used the
EDPS (Website Evidence Collector) tool for website analysis
https://www.peritacionesmarcelino.com/. The results obtained, in summary,
warn of the following: “The evidence collection tool analyzed the
persistent cookies after the browsing session (…). ordered cookies
according to expiration in days. No cookies found. Local storage is
empty". In this way, in view of the report, it does not appear that cookies are installed and, therefore,
Therefore, you should inform yourself about them.

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the conduct of the claimed party violates article 13
of the GDPR, for which reason it could imply the commission of an infraction classified in the
Article 83.5.b) of the GDPR which provides: "Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of a company, of an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% % of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

to)

(...)

a) The rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22;”

For the purposes of the statute of limitations for offences, article 72.1 h) of the
LOPDGDD qualifies as very serious "The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about
of the processing of your personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and
14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”. The limitation period
of the very serious infringements provided for in Organic Law 3/2018 is three years.

IV.

Sanction proposal

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
data, as a control authority, are established in article 58.2 of the GDPR. Between
they have the power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with the
article 83 of the GDPR -article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the person responsible or
processor that the processing operations comply with the
provisions of the GDPR, where applicable, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term -article 58. 2 d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

In the present case, taking into account the facts exposed and without prejudice to what
results from the instruction of the procedure, it is considered that the sanction that
It would be appropriate to impose an administrative fine. The fine imposed shall
be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the
Article 83.1 of the GDPR. In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed,
to observe the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, which indicates:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement”.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have included the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity

f) Affectation of the rights of minors

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party”.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated makes it possible to establish as an initial assessment a
a fine of €2,000.00 (two thousand euros) for the violation of article 13 of the GDPR.

V

adoption of measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE a CONSULTANCY
PERITACIONES ALMERIENSES, S.L., with NIF B04855128, for the alleged infringement
of article 13 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.b) of the GDPR.
SECOND: THAT for the purposes provided in article 64.2.b) of LPACAP, the sanction
that could correspond would be an ADMINISTRATIVE FINE of 2,000.00 euros (two
thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infringement, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of
measures in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the GDPR.

THIRD: APPOINT as instructor R.R.R. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to CONSULTING EXPERTS
ALMERIENSES, S.L., with NIF B04855128, granting it a hearing period of ten
business days for him to formulate the allegations and present the evidence he deems
convenient. In your statement of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure that appears in the heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 1,600.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction, without prejudice to the imposition of the
corresponding measures.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 1,600.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination
of the procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the corresponding measures.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at 1,200.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (1,600.00 euros or 1,200.00 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it receives.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-110422

>>

SECOND: On March 30, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 1200 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

FOURTH: In the previously transcribed initiation agreement, it was indicated that, if
Once the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the controller the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

Having recognized the responsibility for the infringement, the imposition of
the measures included in the Initiation Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202208440, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: TO ORDER CONSULTORÍA PERITACIONES ALMERIENSES, S.L.
so that within one month it notifies the Agency of the adoption of the measures that
are described in the foundations of law of the Commencement Agreement transcribed in the
present resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to CONSULTING EXPERTS
ALMERIENSES, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

1259-121222

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

