• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Arthur John  James  Ryan  and  Matthew Peter Hill, trading  as  Ryan  Hill 

Partners and  Hill  Ryan  Partnership. 

Of: 

Lytchett House,  Unit 13, Freeland  Park,  Wareham  Road,  Lytchett 

Matravers,  Poole,  BH 16 6FA 

1. 

The  Information  Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided  to 

issue  Arthur John  James  Ryan  ("Mr Ryan")  and  Matthew  Peter Hill  ("Mr 

Hill"), trading  as  Ryan  Hill  Partners and  Hill  Ryan  Partnership,  with  a 

monetary penalty under section  SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 

("DPA").  The  penalty is  in  relation  to a serious contravention  of 

Regulations  22 and  23  of the  Privacy and  Electronic Communications 

(EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003  ("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice  explains the  Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill, trading  as  Ryan  Hill  Partners and  Hill  Ryan 

Partnership, whose  business  is  given  above,  are the persons  stated  in 

this notice to have transmitted  unsolicited  communications by means 

of electronic mail to individual  subscribers for the  purposes of direct 

marketing contrary to regulation  22 of PECR. 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

4. 

Regulation  22 of PECR  states: 

"(1)  This 

regulation  applies 

to 

the 

transmission  of  unsolicited 

communications  by  means  of  electronic  mail 

to 

individual 

subscribers. 

(2)  Except in  the  circumstances referred to  in  paragraph  (3),  a person 

shall neither transmit,  nor instigate the transmission of,  unsolicited 

communications  for the purposes  of direct marketing  by means  of 

electronic  mail  unless  the  recipient  of  the  electronic  mail  has 

previously notified the  sender that he  consents  for the  time  being 

to such  communications being sent by,  or at the instigation  of,  the 

sender. 

(3)  A  person  may send  or instigate  the  sending  of electronic  mail for 

the purposes of direct marketing where-

( a) that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 

of that electronic mail in  the course of the sale or 

negotiations for the sale of a product or service to  that 

recipient; 

(b)  the direct marketing is  in  respect of that person's similar 

products and services only; and 

( c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 

(free of charge except for the costs of the transmission of 

the refusal)  the use of his contact details for the purposes 

of such direct marketing, at the time that the details  were 

initially collected,  and,  where he did not initially refuse  the 

use  of the details,  at the time of each subsequent 

communication. 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(4)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in  contravention of 

paragraph (2)." 

5. 

Regulation  23  of PECR  states that "A  person shall neither transmit,  nor 

instigate the transmission of,  a  communication for the purposes of 

direct marketing by means of electronic mail -

(a)  where the identity of the person on  whose  behalf the 

communication has been sent has been  disguised or 

concealed; 

(b)  where a  valid address to  which  the recipient of the 

communication may send a  request that such 

communications cease has not been provided 

( c)  where that electronic mail would contravene regulation  7 of 

the Electronic Commerce (EC Directive) Regulations 2002; 

or 

(d)  where that electronic mail encourages recipients  to  visit 

websites  which  contravene that regulation." 

6. 

Section  122(5) of the  Data  Protection  Act 2018 "DPA18" defines direct 

marketing as "the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 

or marketing material which  is directed to particular individuals".  This 

definition  also  applies for the purposes of PECR  (see  regulation  2(2) 

PECR  and  paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule  19 of the  DPA18). 

7. 

Consent in  PECR,  between  29  March  2019 and  31  December 2020,  was 

defined  by reference to the concept of consent in  Regulation  2016/679 

("the GDPR"):  regulation  8(2)  of the  Data  Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019.  Article  4(11)  of the GDPR  sets out the following  definition: 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"'consent' of the data subject means any freely given,  specific, 

informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by 

which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 

signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data relating  to him 

or her". 

8. 

Recital  32  of the GDPR  materially states that "When  the processing  has 

multiple purposes,  consent should be  given  for all of them".  Recital  42 

materially  provides  that  "For consent to  be  informed,  the  data  subject 

should  be  aware  at least  of the  identity  of the  controller".  Recital  43 

materially  states  that  "Consent is  presumed not to  be  freely  given  if it 

does  not allow separate  consent to  be  given  to  different personal data 

processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case". 

9. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a  living individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such  individuals". 

10.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

11. 

"Electronic mail" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "any text, 

voice,  sound or image message sent over a public electronic 

communications network which  can  be stored in  the network or in  the 

recipient's terminal equipment until it is  collected by the recipient and 

includes messages sent using a short message service". 

12.  Section  SSA  of the  DPA  (as applied  to  PECR  cases  by Schedule  1 to 

PECR,  as  variously amended)  states: 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a person  with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 

Directive)  Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a) knew or ought to have known  that there  was a risk that the 

contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) failed to  take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contravention." 

13.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance under section  SSC  (1) 

of the  DPA  about the issuing  of monetary penalties that has  been 

published  on  the Information Commissioner's Office  ("ICO")  website. 

The  Data  Protection  (Monetary Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty and 

Notices)  Regulations  2010 prescribe that the  amount of any penalty 

determined by the Commissioner must not exceed  £500,000. 

14.  PECR  were enacted  to protect the individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the electronic communications sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

15.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Background to the case 

16.  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  trade under the names  Ryan  Hill  Partners and  Hill 

Ryan  Partnership.  It appears that Ryan  Hill  Partners and  Hill  Ryan 

Partnership are trading  names of the same  partnership.  The 

partnership acts  as  a  lead  generator for the debt management sector. 

17.  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  are former directors of several  Manchester-based 

lead  generation  and  call  centre companies,  including Signed  and  Sealed 

Marketing  Limited  (formerly Maximedia  Limited),  Cutmycosts  Limited 

and  Clearshot  Limited.  The  first of these companies was  dissolved  in 

February 2016 alter it entered  into creditors' voluntary liquidation, 

owing  £166,597.33 to creditors.  The  latter two companies were 

dissolved  via  compulsory strike-off in  April  2016 and  May  2018 

respectively. 

18.  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  were  disqualified  as  directors from  7 April  2017,  for 

12 years and  8  years respectively,  following  an  investigation  by the 

Insolvency Service. 

19.  Hill  Ryan  Partnership was  registered  with the ICO from  29 June  2017 to 

28 June  2021,  under registration  number ZA263064.  The  organisation 

was  described  as  a "partnership" and the nature of work was  listed  as 

"lead generator" and the contact point was "John  Ryan". 

20.  Ryan  Hill  Partners first came  to the attention  of the ICO  in  August 

2020,  during an  investigation  into unsolicited  SMS  messages sent by 

H&L Business Consulting  Ltd,  in  respect of which  the Commissioner 

issued  a  Monetary Penalty and  Enforcement Notice  dated  29  March 

2022.  Following  a third  party information  notice  sent to the 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

telecommunications service  provider (as  outlined  in  further detail 

below),  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill,  trading  as  Ryan  Hill  Partners,  were 

subsequently identified  as  the customer to whom  mobile telephone 

numbers generating  unsolicited SMS  messages were  allocated. 

21.  Mobile  users can  report the receipt of unsolicited  marketing  SMS 

messages to the  Mobile  UK's  Spam  Reporting  Service  by forwarding  the 

message to 7726 (spelling  out "SPAM").  Mobile  UK  is  an  organisation 

that represents the interests of mobile operators in  the UK.  The 

Commissioner is  provided  with  access to the data  on  complaints made 

to the 7726 service  and  this data  is  incorporated  into a  Monthly Threat 

Assessment (MTA)  used  to ascertain  organisations in  breach  of PECR. 

22.  Searches  of the  7726 database initially identified over 250  complaints 

about unsolicited  SMS  messages  promoting the website 

www.debt247.co.uk.  The  messages offered  individuals the opportunity 

to write  off 95%  of their debts,  by visiting  a website 

(www.debt247.co.uk)  and  providing their contact details and  details of 

their debts.  Some of the messages referred  to "government help" or 

the solution  being "government backed".  Others attempted to 

capitalise  on  the pandemic by referring to "lockdown" or "furlough". 

23.  The  following  are  examples of the  SMS  messages: 

"You  qualify for Government Help  to  WRITE OFF 95% of ALL  DEBTS 

with ALL  charges and fees  FROZEN.  Act NOW - Click 

www.debt247.co.uk or stop 2  opt out 

WRITE OFF 95% of ALL  DEBTS  with ALL  charges &  fees  FROZEN if 

you 're  genuinely struggling  with debts.  For FREE help &  info go  to 

www.debt247.co.uk Stop 2  opt out 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Worried about debts &  bills? Have  up to  95% of your debts officially 

written off &  get a  new start.  For FREE help &  info go to 

www.debt247.co.uk Stop 2  opt out 

If you 're  employed or furloughed,  special FREE help  with  debts is  now 

available.  Up  to  90% of your debt is  WRITTEN  OFF.  Go  to 

www.debt247.co.uk Stop 2  opt out 

Get Debt FREE during the Lockdown !  Write  off 95% of ALL  DEBTS  with 

ALL  charges and fees  FROZEN.  UK residents only.  Click 

www.debt247.co.uk Stop 2  opt out". 

24.  Several  of the SMS  messages were  virtually identical to SMS  messages 

sent by H&L Business Consulting  Ltd.  The  only difference being  that the 

website address  referred to was  www.debt247.co.uk rather than  out 

of-debts.co.uk. 

25.  The  website  www.debt247.co.uk did  not contain  any company 

information  and  the only contact information  available was  an  email 

address (help@debt247.co.uk).  The  website  asked  users to enter the 

following  information  into an  online enquiry form:  name,  phone 

number,  email  address,  employment status,  living  arrangements, 

number of debts and  total  debt amount. The  website  explained  that the 

form  "will then be passed to a  qualified advisor,  who  will be in  touch  by 

phone and text".  The  website  did  not provide details of the "qualified 

advisor" to whom  the leads would  be  passed.  The  website was  not 

registered  with the  Financial  Conduct Authority ("FCA"). 

26.  The  privacy policy for www.debt247.co.uk was  extremely short and 

stated  as  follows: 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"The  information that we  collect and store relating to you is 

primarily used to  enable us to provide our services to you.  In 

addition,  we  may use  the information for the following purposes: 

•  To  provide you  with information  requested from  us relating  to 

our services and to provide information on other products 

which  we  feel may be of interest to you if you consent to 

receive such information. 

•  To  notify you about any changes to our services 

• 

If you are an existing customer,  we  may contact you to gain 

feedback on  your experiences. 

•  We  may use  your data,  or permit selected third parties to use 

your data,  so  that you can  be provided with  information about 

unrelated goods and services which  we  consider may be of 

interest to  you. 

• 

If you are a  new customer,  we  will only contact you or allow 

third parties to  contact you only when  you have provided 

consent and only by those means you provided consent for. 

• 

If you do  not want us to use  your data  for ourselves or third 

parties you  will have the opportunity to  withhold your consent 

to  this  when  you provide your details to us on the form  on 

which  we  collect your data." 

27.  On  1 September 2020,  a third  party information  notice was  issued to 

the telecommunications service provider,_, requesting 

subscriber details for three mobile telephone  numbers used  to send  the 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

SMS  messages promoting  www.debt247.co.uk,  out-of-debts.co.uk and 

outofdebtuk.co.uk. -

responded  on  13  October,  informing the 

ICO that the numbers were  allocated to 

. According  to their 

website  ( 

), 

is  an  SMS  platform  provider 

offering  bulk SMS  marketing solutions to organisations.  It has  been 

registered  with the ICO as  a "telecommunications company" since 

March  2017. 

28.  On  26  October 2020, the ICO sent an  initial  investigation  letter to -

_ ,  which  informed them  of the complaints received  and  requested 

answers to several  questions.  On  2  November, 

responded, 

informing the ICO that 

is  a communications service 

provider,  in  which  users access their service via  a self-service web 

portal  or application  programming  interface. 

stated that all 

users agree to be  bound  by its terms of service,  which  state that users 

must comply with the laws surrounding  consent. 

29. 

identified  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill, trading  as  Ryan  Hill  Partners, 

as  the users who  rented two of the virtual  mobile numbers 

(07520649873 and  07520660864)  used to send  the SMS  messages 

promoting  www.debt247.co.uk.  Invoices were  provided which  showed 

that Ryan  Hill  Partners had  purchased  a total  of 367,500  SMS  credits 

from 

On  18 November, a third  party information  notice 

was  issued  to 

,  requesting  further information  about Ryan 

Hill  Partners,  including the full  list of numbers allocated, the connection 

dates and  usage  periods,  payment details and  copies  of message  logs. 

30.  On  24  November 2020, further searches of the  7726 database were 

conducted  which  revealed  that complaints for SMS  messages 

referencing  www.debt247.co.uk ceased  on  5 November 2020, three 

days after 

responded  to the  initial  investigation  letter from 

the ICO.  Also  on  5 November,  complaints began  to be  received  about 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

similar SMS  messages promoting the website www.debtassist.uk. 

There were  75  such  complaints between  5 and  24  November.  The 

website did  not contain  any company information  and  the only contact 

information was  an  email  address (help@debtassist.uk).  A whois 

search  revealed  that www.debtassist.uk was  registered  on  1 November 

2020 v ia - ·  A comparison  between the websites 

www.debt247.co.uk and  www.debtassist.uk revealed  that the two 

websites were virtually identical. 

31.  Most of the SMS  messages promoting the website www.debtassist.uk 

were  sent from  the mobile number, 07451289475. This same  number 

was  used  between  6  October and  5 November 2020 to send  messages 

promoting the website www.debt247.co.uk.  The  change  of mobile 

number used  to promote www.debt247.co.uk appears to have  occurred 

after the ICO  issued  the third  party information  notice to -

in 

September requesting  subscriber details for the mobile numbers 

07520649873 and  07520660864  (the numbers previously used  to 

promote www.debt247.co.uk). 

32. 

In response to the third  party information  notice, 

confirmed 

that Ryan  Hill  Partners were  allocated  the three mobile numbers used 

to send  the  messages  promoting  www.debt247.co.uk and,  from  5 

November 2020, www.debtassist.uk (i.e.  07520649873, 07520660864, 

and  07451289475). 

also  provided  message  logs confirming 

that Ryan  Hill  Partners  stopped  sending  messages promoting 

www.debt247.co.uk on  29  October, three days alter the ICO sent the 

initial  investigation  letter to 

. The  message  logs showed  that 

SMS  messages  promoting  www.debtassist.uk started  on  5 November, 

three  days alter 

identified  Ryan  Hill  Partners as  the sender 

of the www.debt247.co.uk messages. 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

33.  On  27  November 2020,  an  initial  investigation  letter was  sent to Ryan 

Hill  Partners via  email  informing them  of the complaints  received  by 

the ICO and  via  the  7726 service.  The  letter outlined the requirements 

of PECR  and  the enforcement powers available to the Commissioner. 

Ryan  Hill  Partners was  asked to provide  answers to several  questions 

by  18 December 2020.  The  letter was  accompanied  by a spreadsheet 

listing 456 complaints  received  by the ICO and  the via  the 7726  service 

between  5 September 2019  and  5 November 2020 about unsolicited 

SMS  messages  promoting the website www.debt247.co.uk. 

34.  On  1 December,  Mr Ryan  called  the ICO's investigating  officer to 

request the password  for the spreadsheet,  which  was  provided to him 

during the call.  Mr Ryan  stated that he  intended to instruct someone to 

respond  on  his  behalf. 

35.  On  18  December,  Mr Ryan  called  the ICO's investigating officer.  He 

explained that he  had  managed to obtain  some  of the requested 

information, but that he  was  awaiting further details from  his suppliers. 

The  investigating  officer advised  Mr Ryan  to send  any information  he 

had  at this stage  and  asked  him to confirm  what information was 

outstanding,  and  when  this could  be  provided.  No  response  was 

received  from  Mr Ryan,  so  a chaser email  was  sent by the ICO on  4 

January 2021,  requesting  the information  by 8 January 2021. 

36.  On  8 January 2021, John  Ryan  provided the following  update: 

"I have gone through the logs,  and I  calculate  that the total number of 

direct marketing texts sent out was 426,300 since  1st September 

2019. 

I'm now going through the data,  opt outs,  leads generated etc and I 

will pull together the other information that you  require. 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

I  will be able to update you  with further information next week and I 

apologise for the delay in submission of these responses." 

37.  Over the following ten  weeks,  Mr Ryan  contacted the investigating 

officer several  times,  by phone and  email,  detailing the various 

difficulties he  was  encountering  in  attempting to provide the 

information  requested  by the ICO. 

38.  On  23  March  2021,  Mr Ryan  provided the following  update: 

"I've now done a detailed manual count of the total SMS sent since 1st 

Sept 2019 and it is 463,360 (which  is  more than my earlier submission 

of approximately 426,300). 

Of these,  409,468 were delivered and 53,892  'failed'. 

I  will have the opt out figures  today for you and the opt-out process as 

well as other information you require." 

39.  On  1 June  2021, the ICO sent an  end  of investigation  email  to  Mr Ryan. 

Mr Ryan  was  reminded  that it had  been  over six  months since the 

initial  investigation  letter and  most of the  information  requested  in  that 

letter was  still  outstanding. 

40.  The  end  of investigation  email  also  explained  that,  under PECR,  the 

onus was  on  Ryan  Hill  Partners,  as  the  sender of the messages, to 

prove that it had  valid  consent.  The  email  referred  Mr Ryan  to the 

initial  investigation  letter, which  outlined the  enforcement powers 

available to the  Commissioner,  and  explained  that consideration  would 

now  be  given  as  to whether formal  enforcement action  was 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

appropriate.  The  email  added that if Mr Ryan  had  any relevant 

evidence,  he  should  provide it by 8 June  2021. 

41.  On  14 June  2021,  Mr Ryan  acknowledged  receipt of the  end  of 

investigation  email.  He  said  that he  fully understood that there were 

unresolved  issues  in  this matter.  He  confirmed  that he  would  compile 

the information  requested. 

42.  On  30  June  and  1 July 2021,  Mr Ryan  spoke to the  investigating  officer. 

He  expressed  his desire to resolve the matter,  but said  that he  did  not 

have  most of the information. The  investigating  officer asked  Mr Ryan 

to send  any information  he  had,  including  details of any companies who 

had  supplied the data  or who  had  instructed  him to send  the SMS 

messages. 

43.  No  further response  was  received  so,  on  14 July 2021,  a follow-up 

email  was sent to Mr Ryan.  Mr Ryan  emailed the  investigating  officer on 

20 July 2021, stating that he  would  resume work on  the  matter and 

compile the requested  information.  No  further response  was  received 

from  Mr Ryan. 

44.  A search  of the ICO registration  database,  conducted  on  22 July 2021, 

revealed  that the registration  for Hill  Ryan  Partnership expired  on  28 

June  2021. 

45.  The  Commissioner has  made the above findings of fact on  the 

balance  of probabilities. 

46.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether those facts  constitute 

a contravention  of regulations  22  and  23  of PECR  by Mr Ryan  and  Mr 

Hill, trading  as  Ryan  Hill  Partners and  Hill  Ryan  Partnership and,  if so, 

whether the conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The contravention 

47.  The  Commissioner finds that Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill, trading  as  Ryan  Hill 

Partners and  Hill  Ryan  Partnership  (together "Ryan  Hill  Partners") 

contravened  regulations  22  and  23  of PECR. 

48.  The  Commissioner finds that the contravention  was  as  follows: 

49.  The  Commissioner finds that between  1 September 2019 and  30 

November 2020,  Ryan  Hill  Partners sent 463,360 SMS  messages,  of 

which  409,468 were  delivered,  which  were  unsolicited  direct marketing 

messages  sent to subscribers who  had  not consented  to receiving 

them.  The  Commissioner finds that Ryan  Hill  Partners transmitted 

those direct marketing  SMS  messages,  contrary to regulation  22  of 

PECR. 

50.  Ryan  Hill  Partners,  as  the sender of the direct marketing,  is  required  to 

ensure that it is  acting  in  compliance with the requirements of 

regulation  22  of PECR,  and  to ensure that valid  consent to send  those 

SMS  messages  has  been  acquired. 

51.  Ryan  Hill  Partners sought to profit from  the Covid-19  pandemic by 

sending  SMS  messages to individuals offering them  the opportunity to 
"Get Debt FREE  during the  Lockdown!".  Message  logs  provided  byllll 

-

show that 9,906 messages sent by Ryan  Hill  Partners on  18 and 

19  May  2020 included this wording.  Certain  SMS  messages also 

misleadingly referred  to "government help" or the  solution  being 

"government backed",  despite the fact Ryan  Hill  Partners were  not 

authorised  by the  FCA  to provide  regulated  financial  products or 

services.  Message  logs  provided  by 

show that 235,940 of 

the messages  sent by Ryan  Hill  Partners between  18 May and  26 

November 2020 included this wording. 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

52.  The  websites  referenced  in  the SMS  messages,  www.debt247.co.uk 

and  www.debtassist.uk,  collected  personal  data,  including financial 

information.  Individuals who visited  the websites  and  completed the 

online  enquiry form  were  required  to agree to a vaguely worded 

privacy policy which  stated that their data  may be  used to provide 

them  with "information about unrelated goods and services" from 

"selected third parties".  No  information  was  provided  about the identity 

of the controller or third  parties, the lawful  basis  for the processing  or 

the existence of individual  rights. 

53.  The  Commissioner considers  that Ryan  Hill  Partners attempted to 

frustrate  his  investigation  by changing  the  mobile number used  to send 

the SMS  messages  and  by changing the name  of the  promoted  website 

from  www.debt247.co.uk to www.debtassist.uk.  Ryan  Hill  Partners 

implemented these changes  alter third  party information  notices were 

issued  to -and  

requesting  details of the subscribers 

who were  allocated  the  mobile numbers used to send  the SMS 

messages. 

54.  Further,  Mr Ryan  failed  to provide the majority of the  information 

requested  by the ICO  in  the  initial  investigation  letter,  despite repeated 

assurances over the  course  of six  months that he  was  in  the process  of 

collating  the information. 

55.  Ryan  Hill  Partners did  not provide any explanation  or evidence to the 

Commissioner on  whether it had  obtained the consent of subscribers. 

No  evidence was  provided  by Ryan  Hill  Partners as  to the  nature and 

extent of any consent from  subscribers,  or when  or how any such 

consent had  been  obtained. 

56.  For consent to be  valid  it is  required  to be  "freely given", by which  it 

follows that if consent to marketing  is  a condition  of subscribing  to a 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

service,  the organisation  will  have to demonstrate how the consent can 

be  said  to have  been  given  freely. 

57.  Consent is  also  required  to be "specific" as  to the type of marketing 

communication to be  received,  and  the organisation,  or specific type of 

organisation, that will  be  sending  it. 

58.  Consent will  not be "informed" if individuals do  not understand what 

they are  consenting to.  Organisations should  therefore always ensure 

that the  language used  is  clear,  easy to understand,  and  not hidden 

away in  a privacy policy or small  print.  Consent will  not be  valid  if 

individuals are  asked  to agree to receive  marketing from "similar 

organisations", "partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar 

generic description. 

59.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  from  the evidence  he  has  seen 

that Ryan  Hill  Partners did  not have the necessary valid  consent for the 

463,360  direct marketing  SMS  messages which  it sent to subscribers 

between  1 September 2019 and  30  November 2020, of which  409,468 

were  delivered. 

60.  The  Commissioner is  further satisfied  that Ryan  Hill  Partners concealed 

its identity in  contravention  of regulation  23  PECR. 

61.  The  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether the conditions 

under section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

62.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the contravention  identified 

above was  serious.  This  is  because  between  1 September 2019 and  30 

November 2020 a total  of 463,360 direct marketing  SMS  messages  (of 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

which  409,468 were  delivered)  were  sent by Ryan  Hill  Partners.  These 

messages contained  direct marketing material  for which  subscribers 

had  not provided  valid  consent.  The  SMS  messages  sent by Ryan  Hill 

Partners  between  1 September 2019 and  30  November 2020  (a  period 

of 15  months)  resulted  in  522  complaints from  subscribers through the 

7726  spam  reporting  service  and  nine  complaints through  the ICO's 

Online  Reporting Tool. 

63.  Although  53,892 SMS  messages were  not delivered to subscribers, 

their existence evidences an  attempt by Ryan  Hill  Partners to send 

even  larger volumes of marketing messages to individuals without 

consent to do so. 

64.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (a)  from 

section  55A(l)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

65.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above was  deliberate.  In the Commissioner's view, this means that 

Ryan  Hill  Partners' actions  which  constituted that contravention  were 

deliberate actions  (even  if Ryan  Hill  Partners did  not actually intend 

thereby to contravene  PECR). 

66.  The  Commissioner considers that in  this case  Ryan  Hill  partners did 

deliberately contravene  regulations  22  and  23  of PECR. 

67.  Both  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  were  disqualified  as  company directors from  7 

April  2017,  for 12 years  and  8  years  respectively.  They set up  Ryan  Hill 

Partners  less than three months alter they were  disqualified  from 

acting  as  company directors and  continued to generate debt 

management leads. 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

68.  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  were  not registered  with  the  FCA.  The  websites 

promoted  by the SMS  messages,  www.debt247.co.uk and 

www.debtassist.uk,  also  did  not contain  any information  about the 

identity of the organisation  or the debt management companies or 

insolvency practitioners to whom the  leads  would  be  passed. 

69.  Ryan  Hill  Partners failed  to provide the Commissioner with  evidence of 

having taken  any steps to comply with  PECR.  In correspondence,  Mr 

Ryan  failed  to provide  any evidence,  or explanation,  of having  obtained 

consent from  subscribers.  There was  also a failure to provide any 

details of Ryan  Hill  Partners' relationships with third  parties. 

70.  For the  above  reasons,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that this breach 

was  deliberate. 

71.  Further and  in  the alternative, the Commissioner has gone  on  to 

consider whether the contravention  identified above was  negligent. 

This  consideration  comprises two elements: 

72.  Firstly, the Commissioner has considered  whether Ryan  Hill  Partners 

knew  or ought reasonably to have  known  that there was  a risk that 

these  contraventions would  occur.  He  is  satisfied  that this condition  is 

met, for the following  reasons: 

•  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  are  former directors of several  lead 

generation  companies  and  have  been  generating  leads for the 

debt management sector since  2012 so  they should  have  been 

aware  of the requirements of PECR,  the ICO's guidance on  direct 

marketing and  the enforcement action  taken  against companies 

that have sent unsolicited SMS  messages  in  contravention  of 

PECR. 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  The Insolvency Service's investigation  into Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill's 

previous company,  Maximedia  (later Signed  and  Sealed 

Marketing  Limited),  raised  concerns about their compliance with 

data  protection  legislation. 

•  Hill  Ryan  Partnership was  registered  with the ICO from  29  June 

2017  until  28 June  2021. 

•  The  agreement Ryan  Hill  Partners  had  with 

stated that 

"You  shall only send messages to recipients  who  have opted in  to 

receive messages" and  that "You  warrant that all content You 

submit through 

but not limited to SMS sent via 

(including 

bulk SMS solution):  (i)  is sent only to recipients  who  have 

provided consent to receive  the content in  line  with  the Data 

Protection Legislation,  where such  consent is  required". 

•  Ryan  Hill  Partners  should  have  been  particularly aware of the risk 

of a contravention  because they were  relying  on  data  purchased 

from  third  parties. 

73.  The  Commissioner has  published  detailed  guidance for those carrying 

out direct marketing  explaining their legal  obligations under PECR. 

This  guidance  gives clear advice  regarding  the requirements of consent 

for direct marketing and  explains the circumstances  under which 

organisations are  able to carry out marketing  over the phone,  by text, 

by email,  by post,  or by fax.  In particular it states that organisations 

can  generally only send,  or instigate,  marketing  messages to 

individuals if that person  has specifically consented  to receiving  them; 

and  highlights the difficulties of relying  on  indirect consent for 

electronic mail.  The  Commissioner has  also  published  detailed  guidance 

on  consent under the GDPR.  In  case  organisations remain  unclear on 

their obligations, the ICO operates a telephone  helpline.  ICO 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

communications about previous enforcement action  where  businesses 

have  not complied  with  PECR  are  also  readily available. 

74. 

It is  therefore reasonable to suppose that Ryan  Hill  Partners  should 

have  been  aware of its responsibilities in  this area. 

75.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on  to consider whether Ryan  Hill 

Partners failed  to take reasonable  steps to prevent the contraventions. 

Again,  he  is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

76. 

In this case,  reasonable  steps would  have  included  obtaining  evidence 

of consent from  the third  party data  suppliers before  using  the data to 

send  unsolicited SMS  marketing  messages.  Ryan  Hill  Partners should 

have  paid  particular attention to the requirement to demonstrate 

consent,  particularly given the fact that they had  been  disqualified  as 

directors for failing  to maintain  adequate company records. 

77.  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  should  also  have  ensured  that Ryan  Hill  Partners 

was  clearly identified  on  the websites www.debt247.co.uk and 

www.debtassist.uk and  that contact details were  available for 

individuals who wished  to exercise their right to opt out of direct 

marketing. 

78. 

In the circumstances, the Commissioner is  satisfied that Ryan  Hill 

Partners failed  to take reasonable  steps to prevent the contraventions. 

79.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

80.  The  Commissioner has taken  into account the following  aggravating 

features aggravating  features  of this case: 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  Ryan  Hill  Partners  could  not  be  identified  in  the  SMS  communications 

sent  to  subscribers,  in  contravention  of  regulation  23  of  PECR.  Its 

identity  as  the  sender  of the  messages  would  have  gone  undetected  if 

not for the  due  diligence  of the  ICO's  investigating  officer who  had  the 

benefit of prior knowledge  of the individuals involved. 

•  Ryan  Hill  Partners  attempted 

to 

frustrate 

the  Commissioner's 

investigation  changing  the  mobile  number  used  to  send  the  SMS 

messages and  by changing  the name of the promoted  website. 

•  There  was  a  highly  unsatisfactory  level  of  engagement  by  Ryan  Hill 

Partners  during  the  ICO's  investigation.  Mr  Ryan  failed  to  provide  the 

majority  of the  information  requested  in  the  initial  investigation  letter, 

despite  repeated  assurances  over the  course  of six  months that he  was 

collating  the information. 

•  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill  are  disqualified  directors.  Disqualification  came 

into force  from  17 April  2017 for 12 years and  8 years respectively 

following  an  investigation  by the Insolvency Service. 

•  The ICO  registration  for Hill  Ryan  Partnership  has  since  expired,  as  of 

28 June  2021. 

•  The  contravention  was  motivated  by the potential  of financial  gain. 

•  Ryan  Hill  Partners sought to profit from  the Covid-19  pandemic. 

81.  The  Commissioner does not consider that there are  any mitigating 

features of this case. 

82.  For the reasons  explained  above,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that the 

conditions from  section  SSA  (1)  DPA  have  been  met in  this case.  He  is 

also satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  SSB  have  been 

complied  with. 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

83.  The  latter has  included the issuing  of a  Notice of Intent, in  which  the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking.  Ryan  Hill  Partners were 

invited to make representations  in  response to that Notice of Intent but 

did  not do  so. 

84.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty 

in  this case. 

85.  The  Commissioner has  attempted to consider the likely impact of a 

monetary penalty on  Ryan  Hill  Partners.  This  has  been  difficult to 

assess  as  the trading  entity is  a partnership,  meaning there is  very 

limited financial  information  publicly available.  Ryan  Hill  Partners was 

invited to make financial  representations in  response to the  Notice  of 

Intent but did  not do  so. 

86.  As  Ryan  Hill  Partners is  a partnership this also  means that Mr Ryan  and 

Mr Hill  would  be jointly and  severally liable for any monetary penalty 

and  subsequent debt. 

87.  The  Commissioner has  decided  on  the information that is  available to 

him, that a penalty remains the appropriate course  of action  in  the 

circumstances of this case.  The  Commissioner has decided  that the 

factors  referenced  above  do  not provide justification to decrease the 

proposed  penalty.  In reaching  this view, the Commissioner has taken 

into account the serious aggravating factors  present in  this case  and 

the egregious manner by which  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Hill, trading  as  Ryan 

Hill  Partners,  pursued  financial  gain  throughout a prolonged 

contravention  period  of 15  months. 

88.  The  Commissioner's underlying objective in  imposing  a monetary 

penalty notice  is  to promote compliance with  PECR.  The  sending  of 

unsolicited  direct marketing messages is  a matter of significant public 

23 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

concern.  A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general 

encouragement towards compliance with the  law,  or at least as  a 

deterrent against non-compliance,  on  the part of all  persons running 

businesses currently engaging  in  these  practices.  The  issuing  of a 

monetary penalty will  reinforce the need  for businesses to ensure that 

they are  only messaging those who specifically consent to receive 

direct marketing 

89.  For these  reasons,  the Commissioner has decided  to issue  a monetary 

penalty in  this case. 

The amount of the penalty 

90.  Taking  into account all  of the  above,  the Commissioner has  decided 

that a penalty in  the sum  of £70,000 (seventy thousand pounds)  is 

reasonable  and  proportionate given the particular facts of the  case  and 

the  underlying  objective in  imposing the penalty. 

Conclusion 

91.  The  monetary penalty must be  paid  to the  Commissioner's office  by 

BACS  transfer or cheque  by  13 January 2023 at the latest.  The 

monetary penalty is  not kept by the Commissioner but will  be  paid  into 

the Consolidated  Fund  which  is  the Government's general  bank account 

at the  Bank of England. 

92. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 
12 January 2023 the  Commissioner will  reduce the monetary penalty 
by 20% to  £56,000 (fifty six thousand pounds).  However,  you 

should  be  aware that the  early payment discount is  not available  if you 

decide to exercise your right of appeal. 

24 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

93.  There  is  a right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a) the  imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified  in  the monetary penalty 

notice. 

94.  Any notice of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

95. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

96.  The  Commissioner will  not take action  to enforce a monetary penalty 

unless: 

•  the  period  specified  within the  notice within  which  a monetary 

penalty must be  paid  has expired  and  all  or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

•  the  period  for appealing  against the monetary penalty and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

97. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

recoverable  by Order of the  County Court or the  High  Court.  In 

Scotland, the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the same  manner as 

an  extract registered  decree arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution 

issued  by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

25 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Dated  12th  December 2022 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

26 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person 

upon  whom  a monetary penalty notice  has  been  served  a right of 

appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') 

against the notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to the extent that the  notice involved an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the Commissioner, that he  ought to have exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made by the Commissioner.  In  any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice of appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

27 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 

Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice  of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has extended the time for complying  with this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your name and  address/name and  address  of your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address where documents may be  sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision  to which  the proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you  are  seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must provide with the notice of appeal  a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice or variation  notice; 

h) 

if you  have  exceeded the time limit mentioned  above the 

notice of appeal  must include a request for an  extension  of time 

28 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and  the  reason  why the notice of appeal  was  not provided  in 

time. 

5. 

Before  deciding  whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser.  At the hearing  of an  appeal  a  party 

may conduct his case  himself or may be  represented  by any person 

whom  he  may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule 6 to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

29 

