Opinion 7/2020 on the draft list of the competent

supervisory authority of France regarding the processing

operations exempt from the requirement of a data
protection impact assessment (Article 35(5) GDPR)

Adopted on 22 April 2020

Adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2

3
4

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS.............................................................................................................. 5
ASSESSMENT.................................................................................................................................. 5
2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the additions in the submitted list........................... 5
2.2 Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list...................................................... 6
2.3 Analysis of the draft list............................................................................................................. 6
Management of commercial activities............................................................................................... 6
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS.......................................................................................... 6
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................. 6

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64(2), Article 64(3) and Article 35(1), (5), (6) of the Regulation
2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to Article 51(1)(b) of Directive 2016/680 EU on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the
prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal
penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision
2008/977/JHA (hereafter “Law Enforcement Directive”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

Having regard to Opinion 13/2019 on the draft list of the competent supervisory authority of France
regarding  the  processing  operations  exempt  from  the  requirement  of  a  data  protection  impact
assessment (Article 35(5) GDPR) by the EDPB

Whereas:

(1)
The  main  role  of  the  Board  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  Regulation
2016/679 (hereinafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Articles
35(6) and 64(2) GDPR, the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to
adopt a list of processing operations not subject to the requirement for a data protection impact
assessment pursuant to Article 35(5) GDPR. The aim of this opinion is therefore to create a harmonised
approach with regard to processing that is cross border or that can affect the free flow of personal
data or natural person across the European Union. Even though the GDPR doesn’t impose a single list,
it does promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions by ensuring that
the lists do not contradict the cases where the GDPR explicitly states that a type of processing should
undergo a data protection impact assessment (hereinafter “DPIA”), by recommending SAs to remove
some criteria which, the Board considers not correlated with the absence of likelihood of high risks for
data subjects, by recommending them to limit the scope of the types of processing in order not to
contradict the general rules defined in the DPIA guidelines of the Article 29 Working Party2, endorsed
by the EDPB, and finally by recommending them to use some criteria in a harmonized manner.

(2)
With reference to Article 35(5) and (6) GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities may
establish lists of the kind of processing operations which are not subject to the requirement for a DPIA.
They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism where such lists involve processing operations,
which are related to the offering of goods or services to data subjects or to the monitoring of their

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.
2 WP29 - 248 rev.1, 4 April 2017, Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining
whether processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679- endorsed by the
EDPB.

3

Adopted

behaviour in several Member States, or may substantially affect the free movement of personal data
within the Union.

(3)
The  EDPB  ensures  pursuant  to  Article 70(1) of  the  GDPR  the  consistent  application  of
Regulation 2016/679 throughout the European Economic Area. Under Article 64(2), the consistency
mechanism may be triggered by a supervisory authority, the EDPB Chair or the Commission for any
matter of general application or producing effects in more than one Member State. Pursuant to Article
64(3) GDPR, the EDPB shall issue an opinion on the matter submitted to it provided that it has not
already issued an opinion on the same matter.

(4)
While the draft lists of the competent supervisory authorities are subject to the consistency
mechanism,  this  does  not  mean that  the  lists  should  be  identical.  The  competent  supervisory
authorities have a margin of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take
into account their local legislation. The aim of the EDPB assessment/opinion is not to reach a single
EU list but rather to avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect the equivalent protection of the
data subjects across the EEA.

(5)
The carrying out of a DPIA is only mandatory for the controller pursuant to Article 35(1)
GDPR where processing is “likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”.
The national SAs can issue lists concerning certain processing activities, which always require a DPIA
(blacklists) per Article 35(4) as well as lists where no DPIA is necessary per Article 35(5) (whitelists).
When a processing does not fall within either of these two lists and is not mentioned by Article 35(3)
GDPR, an ad hoc decision will have to be made by the data controller based on whether the “likely to
result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons” criterion is met. According to Recital
91 of the GDPR, a DPIA will not be mandatory when the processing is carried out by an individual
physician,  other  health  care  professional  or  a  lawyer,  as  it is  not  of  a  sufficient  large  scale.  This
exception covers only partially the cases when a DPIA will not be necessary, i.e. when there is no high
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

The lists produced by the competent supervisory authorities support a common objective,
(6)
namely to identify the kind of processing operations for which the national SAs are certain that, under
no circumstances, they will result in a high risk, and processing operations the national SAs deem
unlikely to result in a high risk, and therefore do not require a DPIA. The Board refers to the DPIA
guidelines of the Article 29 Working Party, which sets out criteria to consider in determining processing
operations  “likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk”.3 As  set  out  in  these  guidelines,  in  most  cases,  a  data
controller can consider that a processing meeting two criteria would require a DPIA to be carried out.
However, in some cases, a data controller can consider that a processing meeting only one of these
criteria requires a DPIA.

(7)
The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with
Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of
the subject matter.

3 Recitals 75, 76, 92, 116 GDPR.

Adopted

4

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

The  competent  supervisory  authority  of France has  submitted  its  draft  list to  the  EDPB,  which
contains two additions to their previously adopted list. The decision on the completeness of the file
was taken and the request circulated on 26 February 2020.

The opinion must be adopted on 22 April 2020.
2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the additions in the submitted list

Any list submitted to the EDPB has been interpreted as further specifying on the one hand Article 35
GDPR, which will prevail in any case, and on the other hand recital 91. Thus, no list can be exhaustive.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the French Supervisory Authority, which were
deemed  outside  the  scope  of  Article 35(6) GDPR.  This  refers  to  items  that  neither  relate  “to  the
offering of goods or services to data subjects” in several Member States nor to the monitoring of the
behaviour of data subjects in several Member States. Additionally, they are not likely to “substantially
affect the free movement of personal data within the Union”. However, for the sake of clarity, the
Board will enumerate the items of the list, which were deemed outside the scope of Article 35(6)
GDPR. Further, any processing operations that relate to law enforcement were deemed out of scope,
as they are not in scope of the GDPR.

This opinion will not comment on any items on the list, which fall within the scope of recital 91.

The opinions on the Article 35(4) GDPR lists also aimed at defining a consistent core of processing
operations, which the Board requested all Supervisory Authorities to add to their list if not already
present in order to ensure consistency. The Article 35(5) GDPR lists may not exempt these general
processing operations as a rule.

The lists established by SAs pursuant to Article 35(5) GDPR are inherently non-exhaustive. These lists
contain types of processing regarding which national SAs are certain that, under no circumstances,
they will result in a high risk to the rights and freedom of natural persons, and processing operations
the national SAs deem unlikely to result in a high risk.  Such lists cannot enumerate all cases in which
a DPIA will not be necessary. In any event, the obligation of the controller or processor to assess the
risk  of  the  processing  and  to  comply  with  the  other  obligations  imposed  by  the  GDPR  remain
applicable.

When this opinion remains silent on an item from the list, it means that the Board is not asking the
French Supervisory Authority to take further action.

Finally, the Board recalls that transparency is key for data controllers and data processors. In order to
clarify the entries in the list, the Board is of the opinion that making an explicit reference in the lists to
the criteria set out in the guidelines could improve this transparency.

Adopted

5

2.2 Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list
The draft list submitted by the French Supervisory Authority relates to the offering of goods or services
to data subjects, relates to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States and/or may
substantially  affect  the  free  movement  of  personal data  within  the  Union  mainly  because  the
processing operations in the submitted draft list are not limited to data subjects in this country.

The EDPB notes that for the items 13 and 14 that each mentioned “frame of reference” document is
deemed to be part of the draft decision.

Further, the EDPB has previously considered the items 1-12 of the submitted draft decision in the
context of its Opinion 13/2019.

Regarding item 13 and considering Article 64(3) GDPR, the Board recalls that in its Opinion 13/2019 to
the FR SA it stated that for these kinds of processing the scope needs to be restricted by “stating that
it does not apply to the processing activities concerning debts which have been acquired from a third
party, and that it only applies to debts owed in the context of a business to consumer relationship.
Furthermore, the Board recommends that evaluation and scoring be explicitly excluded from scope of
this item.”
2.3 Analysis of the draft list
Taking into account that:

a. Article 35(1) GDPR requires a DPIA when the processing activity is likely to result in a high risk to

the rights and freedoms of natural persons; that

b. Article 35(3) GDPR provides a non-exhaustive list of types of processing that require a DPIA, and

that
the Board presently only considers the item 14 of the submitted draft decision,

c.
the Board is of the opinion that:

MANAGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES
The Board recalls its reasoning in its Opinion 11/2019 where it requested for these kind of processing
activities the restriction of “the scope of this item by covering only business-to-customers relations,
excluding the processing of sensitive data or data of highly personal nature and by excluding data
processing on a large scale.” The Board therefore recommends that the FR SA reduces the scope of
this item in the same way.
3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

The draft list of the French Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent application of Article 35
GDPR and recommends that the following changes be made:



Regarding management of commercial activities: the Board recommends to restrict the scope
of  this  item  by  covering  only  business-to-customers  relations  and the  exclusion of  the
processing of sensitive data or data of highly personal nature from the item.

4 FINAL REMARKS

This  opinion  is  addressed  to the  Commission  Nationale  de  l’Informatique  et  des  Libertés (French
Supervisory Authority) and will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) GDPR.

Adopted

6

The French Supervisory Authority shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in
the register of decisions which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with
Article 70(1)(y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

7

