

Organized by the Personal Data Protection Agency, the Secretariat of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and with the support of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Central State Office for Digital Society Development, an all-day conference entitled Data Protection Day was held in Zagreb on 16 January 2020. 2020 - Facing New Challenges.
The conference brought together a community of Croatian and international experts and professionals in the field of data protection and privacy, senior civil servants, representatives of the European Commission, the European Data Protection Supervisor, the European Data Protection Board, public authorities, academia and business subjects. Conference participants had the opportunity to hear presentations on the most current topics in the field of data protection and privacy.
An introductory address on the occasion of the opening of the conference was given by: Director of the Agency for Personal Data Protection Mr. Anto Rajkovača, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Mr. Darko Nekić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Mr. Josip Salapić and the envoy of the Prime Minister of Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior dr.sc. Davor Božinović.
Director of the Data Protection Agency, Mr. Anto Rajkovača, greeted all present, especially representatives of the European Commission, the EU Data Protection Board, the EU Agency for Fundamental Human Rights, as well as representatives of national supervisory authorities for data protection from EU member states, Southeast European countries and Croatia's neighborhood . He emphasized the importance of this conference, primarily because such events contribute to raising awareness of all stakeholders and citizens, on fundamental rights and the rule of law of the European Union, protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and a comprehensive and effective approach to prevention in personal data protection. Emphasizing that the essence of the conference relates to the field of data protection and privacy with emphasis on the 21st century and the digital age, and data protection as an institution and one of the fundamental human rights, in addition to the fact that it is integrated into a number of laws and regulations it also has a place in the priorities of the Croatian presidency of the Council of the European Union.
In addition to the above, the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency emphasized one of the goals of Croatia's presidency of the Council of the European Union, especially the "Influential Europe" priority, which presents the framework and strength of the European Union. from a number of important topics such as trade or defining, establishing and harmonizing processes, rules and standards such as: the General Data Protection Regulation, which is aimed at promoting European values and interests, for the first time in the world - in general , Adopted by the European Commission in 2016, and worked on it for full implementation from mid-2018.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Mr. In his address, Božinović pointed out that he personally advocated for the successful transmission of the so-called "Police Directives" into our national legislation. He explained that the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was adopted for several reasons, the most important of which is the control of each individual over their own personal data and the responsible conduct of business and government organizations in the protection and preservation of personal data. In the context of the Croatian presidency, Mr. Bozinovic spoke about the priorities of the Croatian presidency, focusing on a "protecting Europe" and focusing on further building the Union in the context of an area of freedom, security and justice - based on common values, democracy and the rule of law, strengthening internal security, from hybrid and cyber threats. At the very end of Mr. Bozinovic said that we must be aware of the complexity and importance of the topic of data protection, especially to preserve individual freedoms and privacy, as well as common European values, and more than welcome any constructive exchange of views, joint prioritization and direction of further development.
After the introductory speeches, his presentation was given by Mr. Wojciech Wiewiórowski, European Data Protection Supervisor. In the introductory part, he expressed his satisfaction that a high-level conference dedicated to the protection of personal data is being held as part of Croatia's presidency of the European Union. He also noted that personal data protection in Europe is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year since the adoption of the first European data protection law in the German state of Hessen. barriers to irresponsible and harmful practices - such as trivial and unethical applications of automated facial recognition technology. I want data protection to be a stimulus for good practices that empower individuals and serve true public interests. ” E-privacy, and according to Mr. For Wiewiórowski, this means providing space in our digital life without supervision - it's just the beginning.
State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society, Mr. Bernard Gršić, addressed the participants with a presentation on the topic of digital transformation, explaining in more detail the issue of understanding digital transformation as such. He also commented on the impact of Internet use on the environment, emphasizing the share of 10% of world electricity consumption for the Internet and increased CO2 generation. In conclusion, Mr. Gršić emphasized the importance of more active involvement of women in the digital world as well as preventive action in relation to fake news and the spread of hate speech.
The first part of the conference was related to online manipulation, profiling and misuse of data, and this part of the conference was opened by a representative of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, Mr. Mario Oetheimer. Mr. Oetheimer spoke about the importance of data quality used in artificial intelligence systems. He stressed that the use of artificial intelligence based on incomplete or biased data can lead to inaccurate results and conclusions, and consequently to discrimination against members of certain social groups and cause violations of fundamental human rights. Transparency of data used in artificial intelligence-based systems helps prevent possible human rights violations. This is especially important in times of big data where the amount of data is often much more important than their quality.
The Assistant Data Protection Commissioner of the Data Protection Commission of the Republic of Ireland, Ms Mary Bridget Donnelly, shared with the conference participants the experience of the Irish Supervisory Authority in the application of the General Data Protection Regulation. Among the priorities of the Irish Data Protection Commission in 2020, she pointed out, among other things, the EU project to be implemented by the Irish Supervisory Authority in cooperation with the Personal Data Protection Agency to raise awareness of personal data protection of SMEs and children as well. particularly vulnerable groups in society as well as the importance of continuous training of data protection officers.
This was followed by a presentation by the President of the Institute for Hybrid Conflict Research, Mr. Gordana Akrapa. He introduced those participants to the concepts of "hybrid threats and hybrid attacks". Thus, the quote "Anything that can serve the well-being of humanity can harm it." That is, "there is nothing in the world that cannot become a weapon" by which he described the seriousness of the threats that threaten the safety of citizens on a daily basis. Mr. Akrap also pointed out the "vulnerability" of users of social networks, ie security vulnerabilities that contribute to the collapse of the security environment of users. In that sense, he emphasized the power of manipulation, which is increasingly directed towards users of social networks. He also pointed out the importance of timely response in terms of recognizing, understanding, preparing and reacting and improving action based on experience, ie. lessons learned.
The concluding presentation of this part was given by the Senior Information Security Consultant Mr. Alen Delic. His presentation focused on a closer understanding of social engineering as well as the monetization of data, and he showed the participants a practical example of what social engineering actually means in practice. He also presented the three most common forms of information collection in practice: phishing, vishing and impersonation, emphasizing that phishing is the most common way of collecting data, and defined the lack of user education as the main problem of "success" of this method of data collection.
The second part of the conference focused on the perception of the GDPR as a business opportunity in a data-based economy. The participants were first addressed by the Head of the Department for International Traffic and Data Protection of the European Commission, Mr. Bruno Gencarelli.
Mr. Gencarelli spoke about how data protection and privacy are related to all four priorities of the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and focused on the fourth priority - Europe, which is influential on the GDPR as a business opportunity, and how the GDPR can contribute to The European Union is becoming more competitive on the world market.
Ms. Mirela Prpić, a representative of the IN2 Group, gave a presentation on data protection in the online world, referring to the problem of using data when using online services. She briefly presented her observations to the participants on the most sensitive segments of the use of modern technologies. She also reminded the participants about the data protection measures they can generally take in the online world, as well as those specific protections located in the device settings. In conclusion, Ms. Prpić emphasized the importance of education as an effective way to prevent data misuse, but also the importance of understanding technology in terms of help and support.
Head of the Information Security Department of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Dražen Lučić gave the last presentation of this part of the conference and in his presentation he primarily referred to the economic aspect of information security. Mr. Lučić pointed out the importance of a serious approach to the issue of information security, the importance of monitoring trends and the need to comply with them. As an important element, he stressed the need for continuous investment in information security in terms of preventing possible negative impacts on business as a whole.
Vice-President of the European Data Protection Board, Mr. Ventsislav Karadjov said that after almost two years of full implementation of the GDPR, we can confirm that this Regulation is of great value for the business of companies and for the protection of personal data of citizens. Of course, data protection and privacy is a continuous process that does not end with the adoption of legislation. European citizens enjoy additional protection of their freedoms and rights, not only within Europe but also worldwide, if third-country businesses set up and expand their business in Europe. The legal instrument proved to be a useful tool for small and medium-sized enterprises, imposing uniform rules of business in the European Union, ensuring the free flow of data, said Mr. Karadjov.
The third part of the conference focused on the protection of digital identity and privacy in a hyper-connected world, and this part included presentations by experts who primarily deal with IT systems in their daily business. Mr. Nikola Tesla expert Mr. Hrvoje Hadžić, gave a presentation on the topic of 5G network as a basis for the transformation of industry and society. Mr. Hadžić presented to the participants the advantages and improvements of 5G networks both in terms of the evolution of mobile internet and in terms of the evolution of transport. He also stressed the importance of improving security in terms of privacy and data protection.
Head of the International Department of the Norwegian Data Protection Authority, Mr. Tobias Judin stressed that already when designing technologies to be used or offered to users, companies should keep in mind the protection of personal data, and their relationship with consumers should be based on trust and reliability. In accordance with the principle of privacy by design, companies should implement technical and organizational data protection measures in the earliest stages of creating and designing processing procedures by applying the principles of privacy and data protection and ensure integrated processing of personal data with the highest level of privacy.
The closing speech was given by the Deputy President for Strategic Development and Public Affairs of the OVH Group, Mr. Alban Schmutz, who pointed out that cloud computing is a key catalyst for true digital transformation because the cloud is a "building block" for the IT industry, ie. artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles and 5G network. The cloud computing infrastructure enables companies to deliver services to a large number of customers, thus accelerating the pace of innovation, and allows even the smallest companies to access unlimited virtual resources in just a few minutes, anywhere in the world. Also, Mr. Schmutz gave a closer look at CISPE (Cloud Infrastructure Services Providers in Europe), which developed the first Code of Conduct for Cloud Computing in line with the stringent requirements set out in the GDPR.
The conference concluded with a very interesting panel discussion, which was attended by Croatian and international legal and IT experts from academia. The moderator of the panel discussion was doc. dr. sc. Tihomir Katulić from the Faculty of Law, University of Zagreb, with whom dr. sc. Wojciech Wiewiórowski, European Data Protection Supervisor, dr. sc. Mario Oetheimer, Deputy Head of the Research and Data Department of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, then Mr. Tomislav Majerić, Head of Public Sector for Central and Eastern Europe of IBM, Mr. Saša Bilić, President of the Management Board of the Agency for Support of Information Systems and Information Technologies (APIS), doc. dr. sc. Vladimir Čeperić, from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb and Assoc. prof. dr. sc. Markus Schatten, from the Faculty of Organization and Informatics, University of Zagreb. The panel discussion essentially focused on the practical areas of application of artificial intelligence and related challenges for the protection of personal data and privacy. Artificial intelligence is a key strategic point and driver of the digital economy that brings and will bring even greater benefits to humanity in the future, but only if anthropocentric artificial intelligence based on ethical principles and respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms is developed. The panelists presented the advantages and disadvantages of artificial intelligence and jointly concluded that artificial intelligence is an area in which much more work and financial resources need to be invested, but also that it is an area that is constantly evolving and striving for improvement and innovation.


