International Working Group 
on Data Protection 
in Telecommunications 
711.405.1 

 

9 October 2019 

P R E S S   R E L E A S E 

Working Papers on Smart Devices for Children and Privacy of Children in Online Services 

released 

The international Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (the so-called Berlin 
Group), chaired by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja 
Smoltczyk, has accepted two working papers at its 65th meeting in Bled (Slovenia). After the conclu-
sion of a written consent procedure the Working Papers have now been finally adopted. 
 
Children spend a significant amount of time using online services, apps and smart devices. They are 
particularly vulnerable with regards to the protection of their data: children lack awareness for the 
risks associated with the collection and processing of personal data. Products and services for chil-
dren must therefore meet high standards for transparency, validity of consent and privacy by design 
and by default. 
 
The Working Paper on Protecting the Privacy of Children in Online Services highlights the risks 
and challenges associated with online services used by children. It calls upon service providers to 
ensure transparency and obtain valid parental consent for the processing of children’s data. It also 
provides recommendations for policy makers, online service developers, and regulators. 
 
The Working Paper on Privacy Risks with Smart Devices for Children examines the particular 
issues associated with smart toys: lack of transparency, security flaws, unlawful processing of data 
and possible abuse of smart toys by adults for surveillance purposes. The Working Paper elaborates 
recommendations to cope with these issues for all parties concerned: producers, users, schools and 
authorities. 
 
The Working Papers are available for download at www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/veroeffentlichungen/working-paper/  
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (Berlin Group) 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (IWGDPT, also known als “Berlin 
Group”) includes representatives from Data Protection Authorities and international organisations dealing with 
privacy matters from all over the world. It was founded in 1983 at the initiative of the Berlin Commissioner for 
Data Protection, who has since then been chairing the Group. The Group has adopted numerous recommen-
dations (“Common  Positions” and “Working Papers”) aimed at improving the protection of privacy in telecom-
munications. Since the beginning of the 90s the Group has focused particularly on the protection of privacy on 
the internet. 
 
More information about the Work of the Group and the documents adopted by the Group are available for 
download on the website of the Group at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/datenschutz/zusammenarbeit-und-
gremien/  

Secretariat 
Berliner Beauftragte für 
Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit 
Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 
Phone   +49 / 30 / 13889 0 
Fax:      +49 / 30 / 215 5050 
 

E-Mail: 
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
Internet: 
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org 

 

The Working Group has been initiated 
by Data Protection Commissioners 
from different countries in order 
to improve privacy and data protection 
in telecommunications and media 

 

 

 

   