International Working Group
on Data Protection
in Telecommunications
711.405.1

October 9, 2019

PRESS RELEASE

Berlin Group publishes working paper on smart devices for children and privacy

of children in online services

The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin Group),
headed by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk
adopted two working papers at its 65th meeting in Bled (Slovenia) in April 2019,
that were released today.

The working paper on protecting children's privacy in online services shows typical
data protection risks associated with the use of online services for children. it calls
on the providers to create transparency and effective parental consent in the processing
to collect data from children. In addition, there are recommendations for political
carriers, developers of online services and regulators.

The working paper on the risks to data protection posed by smart devices for children
looks for typical problems in connection with so-called intelligent toys: lack of trans-
parency, security gaps, illegal data processing and possible misuse of the game
witnessed by adults for surveillance purposes. The working paper gives recommendations for
coping with these problems for everyone involved: manufacturers, users, schools and
hear.

The working papers are available at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/publications/working-paper/ available.

About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (Berlin Group)
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications
Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications – IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin Group”) consists of
Representatives of data protection authorities and organizations from around the world dealing with the
deal with privacy protection. The working group was established in 1983 as part of the International Data
protection conference founded on the initiative of the Berlin state data protection authority, which has been chairing it ever since
leads. Since its inception, the working group has made a large number of recommendations ("Common Positions"
and "working papers") to improve privacy protection in telecommunications
de. Since the early 1990s, the group has been particularly concerned with the protection of privacy
vatsphere on the internet.

More information about the working group and the documents adopted by the group are available at
available on the website of the working group: https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/datenschutz/zusammenarbeit-
and-committees/

secretariat
Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information
Friedrichstr. 219
D-10969 Berlin
Telephone +49 / 30 / 13889 0
Fax: +49 / 30 / 215 5050

E-mail:
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de

Internet:
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org

The Working Group has been initiated
by Data Protection Commissioners
from different countries in order
to improve privacy and data protection
in telecommunications and media

