
Half a year after the start of the DS-GVO - state commissioner examines 150 municipalities
Questionnaire for districts, cities and municipalities



150 Lower Saxon municipalities are receiving mail from the State Commissioner for Data Protection (LfD) these days. Almost six months after the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force, Barbara Thiel is examining how well the cities and municipalities have adapted their work to the new requirements and where they still need to improve. To this end, the municipalities should answer questions on four areas of data protection: organization, data protection-compliant processing, handling of data subject rights and data protection violations.
Exemplary function of the public administration
"As far as I know, numerous municipalities only started the necessary adjustment work at the beginning of 2018, despite the two-year transition period," says Thiel. “However, the public sector in particular must set a good example when it comes to compliance with data protection. How else are you supposed to convince clubs and small companies in particular that they have to comply with these rules?” 12 districts, 3 urban districts, 3 large independent cities, 87 municipalities and 45 joint municipalities in Lower Saxony received the questionnaire. At the beginning of 2019, the employees of the LfD will evaluate the answers. The final report should be available in spring 2019.
Closing gaps, identifying problems
The focus of the audit will be on identifying gaps and problems in the implementation of the GDPR and raising the awareness of the responsible bodies for data protection. The data protection officers of the municipalities can also use the questionnaire to get an overview of which topics require additional advice on site. If the LfD discovers serious violations of the GDPR during the check, it can take regulatory action, such as a formal complaint. The survey of the municipalities is the second major audit of the LfD since the GDPR came into force. Thiel had already written to 50 large and medium-sized Lower Saxony companies from various sectors at the end of June. The report on this audit is expected in May 2019.



Press release as PDF download
Attachment: Questionnaire for the exam (PDF)








The State Commissioner for Data Protection Lower Saxony
Prinzenstrasse 5
30159 Hanover


phone
0511 120-4500


fax
0511 120-4599


Write an e-mail to the contact person




