Press Release: No. 07/2021
Magdeburg, December 15, 2021

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion
 
 
Data protection is a top priority – information for small and medium-sized companies
published
 
Saxony-Anhalt's economy is characterized by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
Craftsmen, merchants and freelancers from various sectors collect, store and use
often in a variety of ways, personal data from customers, employees or suppliers
rants – and must observe data protection.
 
The state representative has therefore received numerous inquiries from these companies for a long time:
What customer or employee data may a company collect? What is this for?
use data? How long may the data be stored? What to do when customers
exercise the rights of those affected or lose employee data as a result of a cyber attack
were encrypted?
 
The state representative provides answers to these and many other typical questions in his
published guidelines "Data protection is a matter for the boss". Albert Cohaus doing the chores
and powers of the state commissioner, explains: "The many data protection
ments from SMEs make it clear that there is a great need for information with regard to practical
ler data protection-compliant solutions. In the guide "Data protection is a matter for the boss".
summarized basic information. It also contains links to numerous
ters, work aids and in-depth information, all of which are provided on my homepage
the."
 
The guidelines are available on the website of the state commissioner at https://lsaurl.de/Chef-
to find sacheDS. A print version will be published next year. In the
The links contained in the brochure are also available on the homepage of the state
carried the provided "Infopaket KMU" available at https://lsaurl.de/InfopaketKMU.
 
Cohaus: "With the guidelines and the information package, we give SMEs a clear working
assistance in coping with data protection requirements.”
 

Imprint:
 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
ladder street 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

