THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

September 10, 2018

 

 

  Europe is bigger than the EU

EU twinning project in Albania

 

Albania is on the way to the European Union. end of June 2014

the country was officially granted EU candidate status, the opening

of accession negotiations was decided in June of this year.

Extensive reforms are now expected from the Albanians – among other things

in the fight against organized crime and widespread corruption

tion. The state commissioner for data protection and information

freedom (LfDI), Dr. Stefan Brink, the EU anti-corruption project as a twinning

Expert and accompanies the country on its way to European standards.

 

On September 4, 2018, the LfDI and its counterpart, the Albanian

Data Protection and Freedom of Information Officer Besnik Dervishi, a

speaking cooperation agreement. "I'm really looking forward to this collaboration

work to learn from each other, to share insights and experiences, to

Mutual understanding of the legal background and also of the culture of the other

development,” Brink said on the occasion of the signing. "I think we have

both our own traditions and values that we bring to this cooperation

can: In Germany and Europe we have high data protection standards. She fu-

also draw on the terrible experiences we have had with a state

which collects the personal data of its citizens, evaluates them and uses them specifically against its

citizens.” Brink continues. “In the field of freedom of information arises

in contrast, a completely different picture, here we can of the undisputedly high

Legal standards of the Albanian law on the right to information from official

cial documents from 1999.”

At the federal level, the Freedom of Information Act only came into force in 2006 and

Den-Württemberg only passed a corresponding law in 2015.

Königstrasse 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

- 2 -

Albanian law is exemplary for clear and open access to state

information - but here, too, the question of successful implementation

translation of this law into practical administrative action.

 

Brink: “Transparency and openness in administration are important foundations for

democratic decisions and the formation of free public will. That

Right of access to government information gives citizens the opportunity to

to control their administration and government and to prevent undesirable developments

– Fighting corruption is only one aspect, but a particularly important one.

Accompanying Albania on this path to the EU represents an opportunity for both partners

dar."
 

 
 
 
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0. Further

Information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.

 

