1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00417/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00417/2021, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection before the SPANISH ASSOCIATION FOR EDUCATION
ONLINE, with CIF.: G87816245, (hereinafter, "the claimed party"), for alleged
infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of
04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the
Treatment of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD); and of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights, (LOPDGDD) and for the alleged infringement of the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic (LSSI), and based on the following:

BACKGROUND:

FIRST: On 04/28/21, he entered this Agency, a brief presented by
the complaining party, in which it indicated, among others, the following:

“On January 8, I asked to exercise my rights in front of the person claimed, following
the indications that I put in the mail itself, without having a response, since I have not
asked to receive any mail from this person/company. On February 13, I received
the same email and I asked again for the removal of personal data, from wherever
they had my data, no response. With dates March 4 and April 14 I receive again
the same messages, violating my right to delete my personal data”.

The following documentation is attached to the written claim:

- Copy of the email received by the claimant on 01/08/21, from the

***EMAIL.1 address, containing an advertising message.

- Copy of the email sent by the claimant that same day,
01/08/21, to the email address ***EMAIL.1, requesting the
“LOW” of personal data from being in the entity's systems.

- Copy of the email received by the claimant on 02/13/21, from the

address ***EMAIL.1, containing the same advertising message.

- Copy of the email sent by the claimant that same day,
02/13/21, to the email address ***EMAIL.1, requesting once
plus the "LOW" of your personal data from the entity's systems.

- Copy of the emails received by the claimant on 03/04/21
and 04/14/21, from the address ***EMAIL.1, containing the same messages
advertisements than in the first two emails sent.

In the advertising emails sent by the claimed entity, it can be
read, among others, the following message:

“(…)Come in and enroll before the places run out at ***URL.1
(…) If you want to unsubscribe, tell me by replying to this email”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

SECOND: On 05/07/21 and 05/18/21, this Agency addressed
informative request to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD Law.

THIRD: On 08/13/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreement is issued to admit the processing of the complaint
filed by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, to the
assess possible rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field of
the powers of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FOURTH: On 08/18/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, a sanctioning procedure is initiated against the claimed party, for
infringement of article 17 of the RGPD, in relation to article 12 of the aforementioned
Regulation, for not responding to the request for deletion of the personal data of the
claimant from its databases, with an initial penalty of 3,000 euros (three thousand
euros) and for the infringement of article 21) of the LSSI, regarding the sending of emails
electronic advertising without the mandatory consent of the recipient, with a
initial penalty of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros), all based on the provisions of art.
64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (LPACAP).

FIFTH: Notification of the initiation of the file on 08/31/21, as of today, no
there is evidence that the respondent has made allegations to the agreement to start the
process. In this sense, article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which
the one claimed in the agreement to open the proceeding was reported - establishes that,
if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement of
initiation, when it contains a precise pronouncement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the respondent has not made allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in
attention to the provisions of article 64.2.f) LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

PROVEN FACTS:

1.- As indicated by the claimant in his brief, although he requested to exercise his rights of
deletion of data and not to send any more advertising emails,
following the indications that he put in the mail that he received from the claimed,
You have not received any response to your request and you have received emails again
advertisements after exercising their rights.

Documentation that proves the attempts to
unsubscribe from the systems of the claimed, asking her not to send
more advertising emails and the emails you received after
with advertising messages.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

a) On the right to delete personal data:

I.- Competition:

Is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the
GDPR Regulation, and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
LOPDGDD.

b) About sending advertising emails:

Is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art.
43.1, second paragraph, of the LSSI Law.

II- Summary of the facts:

In the present case, the claimant indicates that, after receiving an email
advertising of the claimed entity without its prior consent, tried to exercise its
right to delete your personal data before the entity, "following the
indications that he put in the mail itself”, without obtaining any response. One month
later he received another advertising email from the entity with the same
message and tried again to exercise your right to delete your personal data,
but he didn't have an answer either. After that, he returned to receive up to two new
emails in the following months, with the same advertising message.

III- On the right to suppress personal data exercised by the claimant:

Article 12 of the GDPR establishes the following:

1.- The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
interested all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication under articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in
particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
electronics. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights in
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph 2,
The person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise their
rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you are not in
conditions to identify the interested party.

3. The data controller will provide the interested party with information regarding their
proceedings on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, and, in
in any case, within one month from receipt of the request. Saying
The term may be extended for another two months if necessary, taking into account the
complexity and number of requests. The person in charge will inform the interested party of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

any such extension within one month of receipt of the
request, indicating the reasons for the delay. When the interested party submits the
request by electronic means, the information will be provided by electronic means
when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.

For its part, article 17 of the RGPD, on the right to delete data
personal, ("the right to be forgotten"), establishes that:

1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain, without undue delay, from the person responsible for the
treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete personal data without undue delay when any
of the following circumstances: a) the personal data is no longer necessary in
relation to the purposes for which they were collected or otherwise processed; 4.5.2016
L 119/43 Official Journal of the European Union EN (b) the interested party withdraws the
consent on which the processing is based in accordance with article 6,
paragraph 1, letter a), or Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), and this is not based on another
legal basis; c) the interested party opposes the treatment in accordance with article
21, paragraph 1, and other legitimate reasons for the treatment do not prevail, or the
interested party opposes the treatment in accordance with article 21, paragraph 2; (…)”

According to the evidence available at this time, the
exposed facts suppose the violation of article 17 of the RGPD, in application of the
Article 12 of the aforementioned Regulation, upon verifying that the entity did not act
diligently, by not removing the claimant's personal data from its databases
data, in a timely manner.

For its part, article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the
exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, in order to set the amount of the penalty to
impose, it is considered appropriate to grade it according to the following criteria
aggravating factors established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

-

The duration of the violation, taking into account the scope or purpose of the
treatment operation in question, as well as the damages caused to the
interested, (section a). In this case, the complainant requested the deletion of
your personal data up to two times, on 01/08/21 and 02/13/21, but
continued to receive advertising emails, on 03/04/21 and 04/14/21
(two months after having exercised for the first time your right to
deletion of your personal data).

The facts object of the claim are attributable to a clear lack of
diligence on the part of the claimed party, (paragraph b), since having received up to
on two occasions the request for deletion of personal data of their

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

systems ignores such requests and continues to send emails
advertising electronics.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 17 of the
RGPD, in relation to article 12 of the aforementioned Regulation, allows a penalty to be set
of 3,000 euros, (three thousand euros).

IV.- Regarding the sending of emails with advertising messages:

In the present case, the claimant indicates that he has received up to four emails
advertising emails of the claimed party without having given their consent to
this, even asking her not to do it again.

In this sense, article 21 of the LSSI provides the following:

"1. The sending of advertising or promotional communications by
email or other equivalent means of electronic communication
previously they had not been requested or expressly authorized by the
their recipients.

2. The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply when there is a
prior contractual relationship, provided that the provider had legally obtained
the contact details of the recipient and will use them to send communications
commercial references to products or services of your own company that are
similar to those initially contracted with the client.

In any case, the provider must offer the recipient the possibility of opposing the
processing of your data for promotional purposes through a simple procedure
and free, both at the time of data collection and in each of the
commercial communications addressed to you.

When the communications have been sent by email, said
means must necessarily consist of the inclusion of an email address
electronic or other valid electronic address where this right can be exercised,
sending communications that do not include said address is prohibited.”

Therefore, according to the evidence available at this time,
and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, the facts exposed could
suppose the violation of article 21 of the LSSI, by the claimed party, by
send advertising emails without the prior consent of the recipient.

The aforementioned infraction is typified as "minor" in art. 38.4.d) of said
standard, which qualifies as such, "The sending of commercial communications by e-mail
electronic or other equivalent means of electronic communication when in said
shipments do not meet the requirements established in article 21 and do not constitute
Serious offense".

Pursuant to the provisions of article 39.1.c) of the LSSI, minor infractions
may be sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

In accordance with the precepts indicated, in order to set the amount of the penalty to
impose, it is considered appropriate to grade it according to the following criteria
aggravating factors established in article 40 of said regulation:

-

The existence of intentionality, an expression that must be interpreted as
equivalent to a degree of guilt according to the Judgment of the
National High Court of 11/12/07 relapse in Appeal no. 351/2006,
corresponding to the claimed entity the determination of a system of
Obtaining informed consent that is in accordance with the mandate of the LSSI.
Situation that in the present case has not existed.

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose a penalty of 2,000
euros (two thousand euros), for the infringement of article 21 of the LSSI, regarding the sending of
advertising emails without the mandatory consent of the recipient.

V- Penalty

In accordance with the criteria indicated in the previous points, it is considered appropriate
impose a total penalty of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros): 3,000 euros for the
infringement of article 17 of the RGPD and 2,000 euros for the infringement of article 21 of the
LSSI.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued:

 :
RESOLVE
 

FIRST: IMPOSE THE SPANISH ASSOCIATION FOR EDUCATION
ONLINE, with CIF.: G87816245, a fine of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros): 3,000
euros for the infringement of article 17 of the RGPD and 2,000 euros for the infringement of the
Article 21 of the LSSI.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the SPANISH ASSOCIATION FOR
ONLINE TEACHING, and report the result to the complaining party.

Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must be made effective once it is
enforce this resolution, in accordance with the provisions of article 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Ad-
Public Administrations (LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period indicated in article
68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005,
of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, me-
upon deposit in the restricted account Nº ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened
on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.
 
Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the payment
It will be valid until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made
will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification
fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If it is-
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

