1/3  
File No.: EXP202310841  
RESOLUTION OF RECOURSE FOR RECONSIDERATION  
Examined the recourse for reconsideration filed on April 11, 2024, by  
A.A.A. (hereinafter, the appellant) against the resolution issued by the Director  
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection dated March 1, 2024, and based on the following  
FACTS  
FIRST: On March 1, 2024, a resolution was issued by the Director of the  
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in file EXP202310841, in which it was agreed to  
uphold for formal reasons the claim for the exercise of rights made by the appellant  
against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. (hereinafter, the respondent).  
SECOND: The resolution now being appealed was duly notified to the appellant  
on March 7, 2024, as evidenced by the acknowledgment of receipt in the  
file.  
THIRD: The appellant has submitted a recourse for reconsideration to this  
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in which they essentially state the following:  
According to the appellant, their proposal to open a sanctioning procedure against  
the respondent was not taken into account in the resolution. Furthermore, they  
believe that the object of their claim and their allegations were not sufficiently  
explored.  
LEGAL GROUNDS  
I  
Competence  
As a preliminary matter, it should be noted that the new document submitted by the  
appellant has not been classified as a recourse for reconsideration. However, section  
2 of article 115 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative  
Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), establishes that the  
error or absence of classification of the recourse by the appellant shall not be an  
obstacle to its processing, provided that its true nature is deduced; therefore, the  
submitted document will be processed as a recourse for reconsideration.  
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve  
the present recourse, in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the  
LPACAP and article 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection  
of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

2/3  
II  
Response to the allegations presented  
Regarding the statements made by the appellant, it should be noted that both the  
request, rights of access and deletion, as well as the allegations submitted were taken  
into account when resolving the matter.  
Thus, the allegations were reflected in the resolution:  
“…That the respondent has not provided the authorization to use their data and  
that they have also not provided information about the details of the debt. Therefore,  
according to the claimant, the respondent has been providing their personal data to  
companies of financial solvency without their consent. The claimant concludes by  
stating that if no sanction is imposed for the respondent's behavior, it could set a  
precedent and lead to malpractice (…) it should be noted that the claimant in their  
allegations presents a series of objections to the response received. Objections that,  
once analyzed, we consider do not alter the fact that the requested rights have been  
addressed in accordance with data protection regulations…”  
Regarding the appellant's proposal in this recourse to open a sanctioning  
procedure, it should be noted that it is the exclusive competence of this Agency to  
assess whether there are administrative responsibilities that should be clarified in a  
sanctioning procedure, and consequently, the decision on its opening, with no  
obligation to initiate a procedure based on any request made by a third party. Such  
a decision must be based on the existence of elements that justify the initiation of  
sanctioning activity, circumstances that do not occur in the present case,  
considering that with the present procedure, the guarantees and rights of the  
claimant have been duly restored.  
III  
Conclusion  
Examined the recourse for reconsideration presented by the appellant, it does not  
provide new facts or legal arguments that allow for a reconsideration of the validity  
of the contested resolution, therefore it is appropriate to agree to its dismissal.  
In view of the cited provisions and others of general application,  
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection RESOLVES:  
FIRST: TO DISMISS the recourse for reconsideration filed by A.A.A. against the  
Resolution of this Spanish Agency for Data Protection issued on March 1, 2024, in  
file EXP202310841.  
SECOND: TO NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.  
In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this  
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

3/3  
Against this resolution, which concludes the administrative procedure, a  
contentious-administrative appeal may be filed within two months from the day  
following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of Law 29/1998, of  
July 13, regulating Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, before the Contentious-  
Administrative Chamber of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of  
article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the aforementioned  
legal text.  
186_21112023  
Mar España Martí  
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es