 

 
Ms. Estelle Massé 
Senior Policy Analyst 
Access Now 
 
Sent by email only 

 

19 May 2021 

Ref: OUT2021-0085 

RE: Clarification on the process to identify a controller’s main establishment under the GDPR 

Dear Ms Massé,  

I would like to thank you for your letter of 9 April 2021 outlining your questions in relation to the 
Article  29  Working  Party  Guidelines  for  identifying  a  controller  or  processor's  lead  supervisory 
authority endorsed by the European Data Protection Board. 
 
The importance of the efficient functioning of the cooperation and consistency mechanism is reflected 
in the EDPB Strategy 2021- 2023 as well as in the current EDPB work program.  
 
The Guidelines for identifying a controller or processor's lead supervisory authority were adopted on 
13 December 2016 following careful consideration of relevant factors for the determination of the 
main establishment and revised and adopted on 5 April 2017 by the members of the WP29. The EDPB 
members then agreed upon the endorsement of the revised version on 25 May 2018. As is the case 
with all guidance by the EDPB, we are permanently monitoring the necessity of reviewing also these 
guidelines and incorporating additional factors, and we will do so, if necessary. 
 
While the EDPB cannot comment on possible ongoing investigations by its members, I would like to 
inform you that the Internal Market Information System (IMI), an information and communications 
system which facilitates the exchange of information between supervisory authorities for the GDPR 
cooperation and consistency procedures, does specifically enable any supervisory authority to express 
its views on competence at an early stage of such procedure launched by the supervisory authorities 
and/or initiate the dispute resolution mechanism as per Art. 65 GDPR.  
 
The  one-stop-shop  mechanism  ensures  that  the  lead  supervisory  authority  responsible  for 
investigating cases against a particular controller considers the input of any concerned supervisory 
authority.  The  European  Data  Protection  Board  cannot  make  any  statements  regarding  the  main 
establishment of a particular controller, unless, for instance, it takes place within the framework of 
the  dispute  resolution  mechanism  (Art.  65  GDPR).  Moreover,  the  competence  to  carry  out 
investigations, according to Article 58.1 GDPR, is reserved for the national supervisory authorities.  
 
Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

1 

