

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in the mobile application "virtual parking clock" (MPLA s.r.o.)



On the basis of its inspection plan, the Office carried out an inspection pursuant to Act No. 101/2000 Coll., the subject of which was the processing of personal data in the parkujvklidu.cz mobile application.



The check revealed that the administrator of personal data is the capital city of Prague, the processor of personal data is the Technical Administration of Communications hl. m. Prahy, a.s., in relation to the processing of personal data to the extent necessary for the performance of the activities entrusted to it during the operation of paid parking zones. The Office evaluated the contract on the processing of personal data as a contract corresponding to the requirements of § 6 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.



In relation to the subject of the control (processing of personal data obtained in connection with the use of the mobile application "virtual parking clock" mpla.cz/praha within the project www.parkujvklidu.cz by users who pay for cashless short-term parking with this mobile application) the controlled person according to § 14 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. in the capacity of a person processing personal data on the basis of a contract concluded with the company ALTRON Business Solutions, a.s. This contract is based on the processing contract concluded between the administrator and the processor.



The Authority found that the controlled person processes personal data obtained through the virtual parking meter mobile application in accordance with § 14, i.e. only under the conditions and to the extent set by the controller and the processor. At the same time, it processes only the personal data necessary to fulfill this purpose.



The Office pointed to the fact that the retention period of personal data from the payment document should correspond to the period specified in the legal regulations, i.e. a maximum period of five years. Given that the given application has not yet been operated for this period, there could be no violation of legal regulations. However, the Office advised the inspected person to adapt the personal data storage period specified in the general terms and conditions and in the information obligation on the website to the period of five years specified in its directive. Furthermore, it was established that the administrator fulfills the information obligation in accordance with § 18, paragraph 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. The controlled person then provides the data subjects with information to the extent corresponding to § 11 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. The Office also checked the security of personal data of the inspected person according to § 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.



In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.


The inspection was conducted by inspector Ing. Josef Vacula.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of the processing of personal data in the "virtual parking clock" mobile application ( MPLA s.r.o.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



