Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
Bill no. 7805 creating a parking card
for people with disabilities and relating to the draft Grand-
ducal 1° fixing the model and content of the parking card for
persons with disabilities as well as the request and the medical certificate in
for obtaining this card; 2° amending the Grand-Ducal regulation
amended on August 26, 1993 relating to taxed warnings,
consignments for non-resident offenders as well as the measures
Enforcement of Legislative Impoundment of Vehicles
vehicles and in terms of penalty points.

Deliberation n° 55/AV33/2021 of December 10, 2021

 
 
In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General on Data Protection) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which Article 7 of the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.
 
By letters dated March 24, 2021, Minister of Mobility and Public Works
invited the National Commission to comment on project no. 7805 creating a map
parking lot for people with disabilities (hereinafter the “draft law”) as well as on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation 1° fixing the model and content of the parking card for
persons with disabilities as well as the application and the medical certificate in order to obtain
this card ; 2° amending the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 August 1993 relating to
taxed warnings, consignments for non-resident offenders as well as measures
vehicle impoundment and licensing enforcement
points (hereinafter the "draft Grand-Ducal regulation").
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

1/13

It emerges from the explanatory memorandum that “[c]urrently, parking permits for persons
with disabilities are regulated by the provisions of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 31 January 2003
concerning the creation and use of a parking card for disabled persons”
and that in 2019 “it was planned to replace the said Grand-Ducal regulation of 2003 with a new
Grand-Ducal regulation in order to modernize the text and in particular to introduce a new model
of the parking card more difficult to falsify". However, "in its opinion of 22 October
2019 the Council of State pointed out that since the constitutional revision in 2007 the
principles relating to the social integration of citizens with disabilities are a matter
reserved for the law and that therefore the regulatory power does not have the spontaneous power to
regulate this matter.
 
The authors of the bill specify that “this bill and its implementing regulations
are used to replace the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 31 January 2003”.
 
Therefore, the bill “aims to create a parking card for
persons with disabilities and to set the terms and conditions for obtaining and using this
card” and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation intends in particular to set “the model and content
the parking card for disabled people and the medical certificate for
obtaining this card.
 
This notice will limit its comments to issues relating to data protection at
personal character, raised by articles 2 and 7 of the bill and articles 1 and 2 of the bill
of Grand-Ducal regulation.
 

I.

On the database referred to in Article 7 of the bill
 

Article 7, paragraph 1 of the bill provides that “[t]he information relating to credit cards
parking issued provided for in Articles 1 and 6, the information contained on these
maps as well as information concerning the administrative procedures concerning these
cards are included in a national parking card database
for people with disabilities”.
 
According to paragraphs 4 and 5 of the said article, the Minister in charge of Transport (hereafter
after the "Minister") is the controller within the meaning of Article 4, point 7) of the GDPR,
and the State Information Technology Center (hereinafter the “CTIE”) has the status of sub-
processing within the meaning of Article 4(8) of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

2/13

With regard to the terminology used by the authors of the bill, i.e. the terms
“data bank”, the CNPD considers that it would be more appropriate to align it with the
terminology retained by the GDPR which uses the terms “file” or “processing”
of data.

1.

 

 

Preliminary remarks

First of all, the National Commission welcomes the fact that, from the point of view of legal certainty,
be provided, in paragraph 1, of article 7 of the bill, the principle of the creation of a “bank of
national data relating to parking cards for people with disabilities”,
in accordance with Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR1.
This article provides for a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a task in the public interest or
relating to the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In
these two scenarios, the basis and purposes of the data processing must
specifically be defined either by the law of the European Union or by the law of the State
member to which the controller is subject.
 
In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to Union law or
the right of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this right could
specify the general conditions of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of
personal data, establish the specifications aimed at determining the person responsible for the
processing, the type of personal data being processed, the persons
concerned,
personal data may be
communicated, purpose limitations, retention period and other measures aimed at
to guarantee lawful and fair processing. […]”.
 

the entities to which

                                                           
1 Article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR provides that “The basis of the processing referred to in paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:
has. Union law; Where
b. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject. The purposes of the processing are defined in this database
legal or, with regard to the processing referred to in paragraph 1, point e), are necessary for the performance of a task of interest
public or subject to the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. This legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this regulation, among others: the general conditions
governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; the people
concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated and the purposes for which
they can be; purpose limitation; retention periods; and processing operations and procedures, including
measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those provided for in other specific processing situations
as provided for in Chapter IX. ". (…) e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or falling within the
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller; (…)”.
 

  

 

 

 

 

3/13

Recital (41) of the GDPR further states that "this legal basis or measure
legislation should be clear and precise and its application should be predictable for
litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (here
hereinafter referred to as "Court of Justice") and the European Court of Human Rights. ".

 

Pursuant to the above provisions, these legal bases should establish provisions
aimed at determining, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons
concerned, the entities to which the data may be communicated and for which
purposes, the data retention periods or the operations and procedures of
treatment.
 
Thus, while the drafters of the bill are to be commended for clarifying the categories of
data that would be processed, as well as the purposes for which they would be processed, or
the retention period of the data processed, certain elements are not (or not
sufficiently) specified in the bill.
 
The CNPD will come back to this in more detail in the developments below.

 

2.

On the processing of special categories of data
 

Under article 7 of the bill, the Minister will collect “the decision of the physician-member of
the medical committee. The National Commission understands from the opinion of the Council of State2 that
the “medical commission” referred to by the bill is that provided for in article 90 of the decree
modified grand-ducal of 23 November 1955 laying down traffic regulations on all roads
public. It also emerges from Article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation that the Minister
will also collect the medical certificate, as referred to in appendix 2 of the draft grand-
ducal.
 
To the extent that the data contained in these documents is likely to relate
to the health of the applicant for a parking card for disabled persons, these
are to be qualified as special categories of data, known as “sensitive data” within the meaning of
GDPR Article 9.
 

                                                           
2 Opinion n°60593 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the draft law creating a parking card for people
disabilities, parliamentary document n°7805/02.
 

  

 

 

 

 

4/13

However, such processing requires specific protection3 and is subject to stricter requirements.
strict. The processing of “sensitive data” is, in fact, prohibited unless one of the conditions
referred to in paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the GDPR is fulfilled.
 
In the present case, the National Commission considers that the data processing referred to in
Articles 2 and 7 of the draft law, could be based on Article 9, paragraph (2), letter g), of the GDPR
which provides that "the processing is necessary for reasons of important public interest, on the
basis of Union law or the law of a Member State which must be proportionate to the objective
pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for measures
appropriate and specific for the safeguard of fundamental rights and the interests of the
data subject" or on Article 9, paragraph (2), letter h), of the GDPR which provides that "the
treatment is necessary for the purposes of preventive medicine or occupational medicine,
the assessment of the worker's capacity for work, of medical diagnoses, of the treatment
health or social burden, or the management of health care systems and services or
social protection on the basis of Union law, the law of a Member State or pursuant to a
contract concluded with a healthcare professional and subject to the conditions and guarantees referred to in
paragraph 3”.
 
Thus, the authors of the bill should pay particular attention to "measures
appropriate and specific for safeguarding the rights and freedoms of the data subject.
which should be implemented by the data controller in the context of processing
of “sensitive data”, as referred to in Article 7 of the draft law and in Article 2 of the draft law.
grand-ducal regulation.

 

3.

On the categories of personal data

 
If the authors of the bill are to be congratulated for having listed in article 7, paragraph 3 of the bill
of law, the categories of data that would be collected by the Minister, the text under opinion omits
to specify certain categories of data or remains imprecise with regard to
the listing of certain categories of data.

 

Furthermore, it is suggested to delete the following wording "all necessary data
for the following purposes” used in paragraph 2, of article 7, of the bill, whereas the
provisions of paragraph 3 of the same article, exhaustively lists the categories of data which
would be collected.
 
                                                           
3 See the cases rendered by the CJEU of 8 April 1992, C-62/90, point 23 and of 5 October 1994, C-404/92, point 17.
 

  

 

 

 

 

5/13

In any event, such a wording is too vague and would not be likely to
respect the principle of minimization of data under which personal data
personnel must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in view of the
purposes for which they are processed.
 
The CNPD thus proposes to reformulate paragraph 2 of article 7 of the bill, as
following: “The categories of personal data, referred to in paragraph 3, are collected
and processed for the following purposes: (…)”.
 

A. On

the data relating to the establishments to which

the map of

parking is issued
 

Article 7, paragraph 3 of the bill provides that “[i]n this database are the
following data: (…) name, serial number, vehicle identification number and address
of the establishment to which the parking card is issued”.
 
It follows from those provisions that data concerning legal persons would be
likely to be collected by the Minister.
 
In this respect, it should be noted that recital 14 of the GDPR provides that the GDPR “(…) does not
does not cover the processing of personal data relating to persons
legal entities, and in particular companies with legal personality, including the name,
the legal form and contact details of the legal person”.
 
However, information relating to legal persons may, where appropriate,
relate to natural persons (for example: if they include the name of the manager of the
company) and must therefore be considered as personal data.
 
Thereby,
communicated as such to the Minister.
 
Furthermore, there is reason to wonder about what is covered by the term “matricule” referred to in the
aforementioned provisions. Is this the registration number of the establishment in the Register of
Commerce and Societies?
 
For greater clarity and better understanding, the authors of the bill should ensure
to use the appropriate terminology.

the GDPR will only apply to personal data that is

 

 

 

 

 

  

6/13

B. On the categories of data collected through the forms referred to in

appendix 2 of the draft grand-ducal regulation

 

It should be noted that Article 7, paragraph 3, point 1° of the bill does not fully reflect
the categories of data that would be collected by the Minister through the form of
“[r]equest for a parking permit for disabled persons at
reduced mobility”4, and the “medical certificate” form5.

 

However, paragraph 1 of article 7 of the bill specifies that “information concerning the
administrative procedures concerning these cards are included in a database
national".

 

So does this mean that the national identification number that appears on the form
“[r]equest for a parking permit for disabled persons at
reduced mobility" and the data contained in the "medical certificate" would not be brought
to be included in the file?

 

The same goes for the photocopy of the driver's license, this document must be attached by the
applicant, if the latter has one, on the “medical certificate” form, but Article 7, paragraph
3 of the bill only refers to the driver's license number.
 
If such data are actually included in the aforementioned file, the text under
notice should expressly reflect this.

 

In addition, the CNPD wonders whether the data relating to the "identification" of the holder of the
card, referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3, point 1° of the bill, include the surname, first name, number
telephone number and e-mail address of the requesting person, which the latter must communicate to the
Minister when she submits a request for a parking card? If such should not be
the case, the National Commission wonders what data would be covered by the
“identification” of the cardholder, referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3, point 1° of the bill.
 
In all cases, and for a better understanding of the text under review, it is proposed to
replace the term “descriptive” with an exact list of the data that the person in charge of the
treatment is brought to treat.

 

                                                           
4 See appendix 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
5 See appendix 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
 

 

 

 

 

  

7/13

Furthermore, it should be noted that the data relating to the date and place of birth do not
not appear as categories of data that would appear in the file. Gold,
these are collected when the application for the parking card is submitted to the Minister. Whether
such data had to be in said file then it should be reflected in the device
under notice.

 

Finally, in the absence of details in the commentary of the articles on the reasons which would justify
the collection of the national identification number (“matricule”) and the photocopy of the driver’s license
drive, the CNPD is unable to assess whether the principle of data minimization,
under which only the data necessary for the achievement of the purposes must be processed,
would be respected. The same applies to the photo of the card applicant. Although Article 7,
paragraph 3, point 2° of the draft law under opinion as well as the “[re]quest for obtaining
a parking card for disabled persons with reduced mobility”6 provides for this
collection, it should be noted that the need for the processing of this data of a
personnel is not justified by the authors of the bill. The specimen map of
parking for natural persons appended to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation contains a
location to affix the photo provided and the authors specify that they have used the
specimen made available by the European Union. If therefore, the provision of the photograph is based
on a constraint arising from European Union law, the authors of the bill should
specify it.
 
In addition, it should be recalled that the use of the national identification number is, in principle,
governed by the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons.
 

C. On the collection of the “decision of the doctor-member of the commission

medical »

 
According to point 5°, paragraph 3, of article 7 of the draft law, the file will also contain the
“decision of the doctor-member of the medical commission”.
 
In the absence of details in the commentary to the articles, the National Commission
asks what would be the data that would actually be contained in this decision.
Is it a copy of the entire notice provided for in Article 2, paragraph 1 of the bill, or the
copy of the result of the medical examination, which the applicant must possibly undergo
under article 2, paragraph 3 of the draft under opinion, or even both?
 
                                                           
6 See appendix 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
 

  

 

 

 

 

8/13

In accordance with the principle of data minimization provided for in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter
c), of the GDPR, the CNPD considers, in any case, that only a "negative" or "positive" opinion
on the part of the doctor-member of the medical commission, with regard to the issue of
the parking card, should be communicated to the Minister. Therefore, this opinion should not
contain health data of the parking card applicant.
 

4.

On access to personal data

 

accidental damage,

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter f) of the GDPR the personal data
must be “processed in such a way as to guarantee appropriate security of the personal data
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against the loss,
destruction or
using technical measures or
appropriate organizational (integrity and confidentiality)”.
 
In addition, Article 32 of the GDPR provides that "the controller and the processor
implement the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk”. Such measures must be implemented in order to
in particular to avoid unauthorized access to data or data leaks.

 

Among these security measures, the National Commission considers it important that only
people who need it in the performance of their duties and professional tasks
are authorized to have access to the necessary data. In this context, it is strongly
recommended to define an access management policy, in order to be able to identify from the beginning
the persons or the competent department who would have access to the data or the interface
computer made available by the CTIE, and to what precise data these persons or
service would have access. This is all the more so insofar as "sensitive data" is
to be processed.
 
The Minister will therefore have to put in place such measures to ensure the confidentiality and
security of such data, including in particular a logging system (i.e. a
recording in “log files” or “logs”) of user activities,
anomalies and security-related events. Indeed, the disclosure of sensitive data
could cause serious harm to users.
 
On this last point, the CNPD recommends that the log data be kept
for a period of five years from their registration, after which they are
erased, except when they are the subject of a control procedure.

 

 

 

 

 

  

9/13


The National Commission also emphasizes the importance of proactively carrying out checks in
internal. For this purpose, it is necessary in accordance with Article 32, paragraph (1), letter d) of the GDPR to
implement a procedure “aimed at regularly testing, analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of the processing”.

 

Thus, if the authors of the bill are to be congratulated for having provided in article 7, paragraph 6 of the bill
of law that “[l]access to data and the possibility of processing them are managed by a system of
management of identities and access rights", it is important that the data controller
ensures that this identity and access rights management system complies with the
considerations formulated above, in the absence of further details as to the terms of this
system.
 

5.

On the retention period of personal data

 
Pursuant to Article 5, paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, personal data
must not be kept longer than necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes for
which they are collected and processed (principle of limitation of storage).

 

If the authors of the bill are to be congratulated for having provided for retention periods for
the data processed within the framework of the draft law and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation,
clarifications should nevertheless be made.

 

Thus, article 7, paragraph 7 of the text under opinion as amended by the parliamentary amendments
of October 26, 2021 intends to provide for a retention period of three months, from the issue
of the parking card, for the photograph and signature of the holder and a duration of ten
years for “other data”.
 
Article 7, paragraph 8 of the bill as amended by the parliamentary amendments of 26
October 2021 still provides for a derogation from the 10-year retention period for data
holders of permanent parking cards for which the data "may
be kept for longer than ten years.
 
With regard to the derogation provided for in the aforementioned paragraph 8, the authors of the bill specify
that “[in] order to avoid people with permanent disabilities having to attach a certificate
certificate attesting to the disability when renewing their card, it is necessary to keep these
information. For example, a person who has lost a leg should otherwise

 

 

 

 

 

  

10/13

attach a medical certificate attesting to the loss of the leg every 10 years”. Insofar as
only the data contained in the medical certificate seem to be covered, the text under opinion
should expressly reflect this.
 
With regard to the other retention periods and although these are fixed by
said provisions, the authors of the bill in their commentary on the articles do not explain
not the criteria retained which would justify such durations. These are limited, in fact, to
indicate that the duration of 3 months has been set "in analogy to other databases" and
that the 10-year retention period "corresponds to the period of validity of two credit cards
parking lot”.
 
However, these explanations are not sufficient to justify why the retention of said data for
such durations would be necessary and justified.
 
Thus, the National Commission wonders why the authors of the bill intend to set
a retention period of 10 years which corresponds to “the period of validity of two credit cards
parking", whereas a parking card is valid for 5 years and after
these 5 years, it must be renewed?
 
There is still reason to wonder about the articulation of the provisions of the bill which provide for
a retention period of 10 years for “other data” with the exception of the photograph
and signature of the holder of a parking card, with those of article 2 of the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation which provides that “[t]he medical certificate is valid for three
months from the date of issue by the medical examiner”.
 
Is it necessary and justified to keep for a period of 10 years, a medical certificate which
will only be valid for a period of three months from the date of issue by the
medical examiner?
 
Therefore, in the absence of clarification, from the authors of the bill in the commentary
of the aforementioned articles as to the criteria that would justify such durations, the National Commission
is unable to assess whether, in this case, the principle of limited retention
of data has been respected, and invites the authors of the bill to provide details on this
regard.
 
In addition, it should be noted that the provision on retention periods applies to
only data contained in the file. Indeed, the CNPD understands that requests as well as

 

 

 

 

 

  

11/13

that medical certificates and, where applicable, photocopies of driving licenses have been received
in hard copy and then transcribed into the file. Thus, it is necessary to ask what
retention periods are provided for data provided on paper, in particular
concerning special categories of data, known as “sensitive data” within the meaning of
article 9 of the RGPD, the national identification number as well as the photo of the applicant.
 
Finally, it should be recalled that the controller must, under article 5,
paragraph (1), letter d) of the GDPR ensure that the data it processes is accurate and kept
up to date and take all reasonable measures "so that the personal data
which are inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which they are processed, are erased or
rectified without delay”.
 

II.

On the QR code on the parking card for natural persons
 

According to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the new parking card model is
"more difficult to falsify". The explanatory memorandum to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifies for its
turn that "it is taken the opportunity to adapt the models of the parking cards in order to
to protect them against falsification or counterfeiting" and that "using a QR code reader,
this code allows an electronic device to provide information on the nature of the document”.
 
The QR code will therefore be used to check the veracity of the parking cards.
 
The National Commission regrets that the procedures for such control, in practice, are not
specified by the authors of the bill and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation and wonders
how such control will take place in practice.
 
Indeed, there is reason to wonder who will carry out these checks. Will the role of agents be
municipalities or the Grand Ducal Police? If there is any doubt about the competence of the Police
grand ducal authorities to carry out such checks, it is different for municipal officials.
 
In addition, the person who will control the nature of the document using an electronic device
will it directly remotely access the file provided for in article 7 of the bill?
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

12/13

In any case, the CNPD considers that these people should only have access to
information relating to the validity of the parking card, i.e. whether the card is current
validity or not, to the exclusion of other personal data contained in said file. In
in any case, the latter should not have access to all the data contained in the
file.
 
 
Thus decided in Belvaux on December 10, 2021.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 
 
Tine A. Larsen Thierry Lallemang
  President

 
 Marc Lemmer
              Commissioner

      Alain Hermann
         Commissioner

      Commissioner

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

13/13

