 
 
 

 

 

A P O F A S H 12/2023

(Department)

 
Athens, 21-03-2021
Prot. No.: 721
 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in
  
composition of the Department via teleconference on 15-03-2023 at 10:30 a.m., after
at the invitation of its President, in order to examine the case which
refers to the history of the present. They were attended by George Batzalexis,
Deputy President, standing in the way of the President of the Constantine Authority
Menoudakou, and the alternate members Demosthenes Vougioukas, as rapporteur,
and Maria Psalla in replacement of the regular members Konstantinou
Lambrinoudakis and Grigorio Tsolias respectively, who did not attend due to
obstacle although they were legally summoned in writing. Present without the right to vote,
the auditor was Georgia Panagopoulou, specialist IT scientist, as
assistant rapporteur and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the department
of administrative affairs, as secretary.

The Authority took into account the following:

It was submitted to the Authority under no. prot. C/EIS/1890/07-02-2022 of A (hereinafter
(hereinafter "complainant") for download

"complainant") v. Cosmote
electronic SMS messages with account details of another subscriber.

 

Specifically, the complainant states that "For about 3 months now
I receive informational messages on my mobile, regarding the issuance of an account
another subscriber's fixed line, informational messages about

 

1

offer and lack of free airtime or MB concerning others
subscribers, and I generally get messages that have nothing to do with me."

The Authority sent the complainant with no. prot. C/EXE/416/15-02-
2022 document, with which he informed about the content of the submitted
complaint and invited her to submit her views on it in writing
complaint.

The company responded with document G/EIS/6225/20-04-2022, in which
reported that the wrong match of her phone number
complainant to another subscriber's contact information is due to
single human error, and issue resolved.

 Then the Authority with no. prot. C/EXE/1653/30-06-2022 document
drew attention to Cosmote regarding adherence to the principle of accuracy
during the processing of personal data (Article 5 of the GDPR), and
informed that in the event of new incidents of non-compliance with the terms of the article
the prescribed administrative sanctions may be imposed.

But the complainant came back with the no. prot. G/EIS/9739/28-09-2022
document, stating that messages are still being sent incorrectly
SMS.

 Then the Authority, in order to complete its examination
case, call me with no. prot. C/EXE/2741/31-10-2022 document, dated
denounced company, at the meeting of the Department on 11-16-2022,
attaching it with no. prot. C/EIS/9739/28-09-2022 new document of
complainant.

 

Then the Authority, in order to complete its examination
case, call me with no. prot. C/EXE/2821/09-11-2022 the complainant
company, at the meeting of the Department on 16-11-2022.

This meeting was attended on behalf of Cosmote by B,
Deputy Director of Digital Experience Transformation, C Deputy Director of Customer

 

2

Service Excellence, and Eleni Gerutsi, lawyer ... as well as D, responsible
data protection of OTE Group.

After the meeting the complained company submitted the no. first
C/EIS/12193/30-11-2022 memorandum, in which he summarized what he had already mentioned
about the complaint and pointed out that from April 2022 it has
security mechanism implemented, according to which a message is sent
OTP (one time password) when a mobile phone number is declared as a contact
communication to a landline, belonging to another subscriber, for the purpose of
confirmation of said choice by the user of the connection.

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing him
rapporteur and the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who attended without
right to vote, after thorough discussion,

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW

1. According to article 5, paragraph 1 d' of the GDPR, for the processing to be legal
personal data (simple and special categories), must be processed
to be governed by the principle of accuracy of data, according to which
data should be accurate and, where necessary, to
are updated. All reasonable steps should be taken to immediately
deletion or correction of inaccurate personal data,
in relation to the purposes of the processing ("accuracy"),

2. According to article 17 GDPR, sec. 1, d the data subject has the
right to request the deletion of personal data concerning him
without undue delay and the controller is obliged
to delete personal data if the personal data
character were processed illegally.

3. According to article 12, paragraph 3 of the GDPR, the data controller provides
to the data subject information about the action that
carried out on request under Articles 15 to 22 without

 

3

delay and in any case within one month of its receipt
request.

4. In this particular case it appears that incorrect contact information
were freely declared by a Cosmote login holder without being asked
proof or identification that they belong to him. After exercising the
rights of the complainant the details of the telephone connection and of
complainant's emails were released from the subscriber contract.
However, it was found that they remained functional in service
Subscriber's MyCosmote. The correction of the contact details in
due service was completed on 03/11/2022, after they were reviewed
information provided through the complaint.

5. The complainant stated in her memorandum that since April 2022 she has
security mechanism implemented, according to which it is sent
OTP (one time password) message when mobile number is declared
as a communication contact on a landline, belonging to another subscriber, with a purpose
the confirmation of said choice by the user of the connection.

 

Based on the above, the Authority unanimously considers that it should be imposed on
denounced company as controller or the one referred to in the ordinance
administrative sanction, which is considered proportional to the gravity of the violation.
 

FOR THOSE REASONS

 

The Authority addresses the complained company COSMOTE KINETES
TELECOMMUNICATIONS S.A. according to article 57 par. 2 b) GDPR reprimand for the established
violation of the principle of the accuracy of personal data (article 5 par. 1 d'
of the General Data Protection Regulation) as well as for the established violation of the deadline for the
satisfaction of the right to erasure (article 12 par. 3 of the GDPR).
 

 

 

4

The Deputy President

 

George Batzalexis

The Secretary
 
 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

 

5

