1/8

 File No.: PS/00446/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FIRST: On 05/20/2021 it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed party), for the installation of a video surveillance system
installed in ***ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the personal data protection regulations.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

“They have installed a camera in the front yard (1), another two cameras in the patio
rear (2 and 3) and another on the roof (4).

[…]

Camera 1 is not pointing at your front yard as you told me, but at your gate.
entrance, and mostly to the public thoroughfare where two
private cars and sidewalks where pedestrians pass by. camera 2
mostly it does aim at your backyard, but it also takes part of the patio of the
community, camera 3 points directly at my balcony and backyard…
Camera 4 points towards your roof, but my roof is also visible.

[…]

At night time we observe that the cameras sometimes turn on some
red lights with which we think that they perform controlled viewings from their
TV.

[…]”

Attach photographic report of the location of the cameras.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), was transferred on 06/03/2021, 07/03/2021 and 08/09/2021
of said claim to the claimed party, so that he proceeded to analyze it and inform
this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations. In this agency
There is no response from the respondent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

THIRD: On 09/07/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: On 11/24/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD and article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the party complained against submitted a written
pleadings in which, in summary, it stated that:

“This party acknowledges having four cameras set up in his home (…).

The four cameras point to the interior of the home, serving the exclusive purpose of
home protection. It is evidently inevitable that, punctually, in the
open spaces of the property, a minimum space that exceeds its own
housing, however, this must be considered within the term “minimum range of
access”, which is widely accepted as respectful of the protection of
data."

(…)

As for Camera 1 (for me “entrance” camera), it is in an elevated position
focusing, indeed, on the entrance. The public thoroughfare is focused merely
tangential and absolutely secondary, without relevance within the image and as
part of the “minimum access band” (…).

Regarding Chamber 2 (“backyard”), in the attached image it can be verified that the
camera focuses exclusively on the backyard (...).

With regard to Chamber 3 (“balcony”), it is evident that the well-deserved chamber
it only focuses on the balcony owned by this part, without invading any moment
the claimant's home (...).

In relation to Chamber 4 (“roof”), the complainant indicates that “it points towards its
roof, but my roof is also visualized”. From the outset, the claimant is
recognizing that the placement of the camera does not focus on your roof. Likewise, there
to take into account that the balcony wall is extraordinarily high, which prevents
projection in front of the camera. The building that extends to the horizon is
distant enough so that it does not affect privacy rights, especially
when it is not about an interior space, but, at most, it would be about the space
exterior or terrace of another dwelling (...).

We understand that the placement of the well-deserved cameras does not infringe rights
related to data protection, since its orientation focuses exclusively
to the property of this party and serve exclusively the object of protection
domestic, being that the spaces focused around the property are
merely accessories, without relevance, belonging to public roads or

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

tremendously distant in space, occupying exclusively the "minimum strip
of access” to housing and whose recording is essential to obtain the purpose of
persecuted protection.

(…)

The cameras provided are for exclusive personal or domestic purposes,
having been installed by a natural person. These two qualities entail that
the facts are not applicable Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (...).

It is obvious that the cameras arranged, even in the event that it is considered
applicable the aforementioned regulations on data protection, it must be considered that
violates any provision since the weighting rules determine that
there is a legitimate interest in their placement motivated by the preservation of the
security of the home that must take precedence over obtaining the minimum and merely
testimonial of images on the adjoining space, in the terms that have been
previously exposed.”

It provides a photograph of what the four cameras capture.

SIXTH: On 01/11/2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open
a period of evidence practice, taking into account the actions
preliminary investigations, E/06518/2021, as well as the documents provided by the
claimed on 12/20/2021.

SEVENTH: On 01/13/2022, a resolution proposal was formulated in which
proposed to direct a warning to the defendant for the violation of article 13 of the
RGPD, since in the photographic report attached to the claim the
presence of informative poster of video-surveillance area. However, examined the
images from the monitor of the video surveillance cameras that the respondent provides in his
brief of allegations, it was considered that the video surveillance system located in the
exterior of the residence of the latter does not carry out a disproportionate or excessive capture;
not being its action constitutive of an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

Likewise, in accordance with article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the claimed party was ordered to
Proceed to the placement of the corresponding informative posters of the area
video surveillance.

The proposed resolution was notified by mail, resulting in it being returned by
wrong address. It was resubmitted via courier service. I don't know
have received objections to the proposal.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Existence of four video surveillance cameras installed in
***ADDRESS 1,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

-

-

-

The first of the cameras is installed at the top of a window
of the facade of the claimed property. It is credited, through photography
provided by him, that the camera captures the entire entrance patio of his home,
but it is not observed that it points directly to the public highway. However, at
capturing the access door to the patio, a minimal portion of the
public road, being within the legal limits for not being
disproportionate.

The second and third cameras, located on the balcony railing and wall
back of the respondent's home, focus directly on the backyard of the
property and the surface of the balcony, respectively. With respect to
camera two, the area of the patio of the community that it captures is negligible, since
the fabric that is placed on the exit door and on the adjoining fences prevents
visualize much of the patio.

The fourth camera is installed on top of a rooftop wall
of the claimed, without being appreciated in the photograph provided by him that captures
direct images of the roof of the claimant.

SECOND: Absence of informative poster of the installation of the system of
video surveillance.

THIRD: The person in charge of the video surveillance system is B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In the present case, it is appropriate to examine the claim dated 05/20/2021 filed
in this Agency in which the existence of a video surveillance system is indicated,
composed of 4 cameras, installed in ***ADDRESS.1, which due to its positioning
and characteristics seems to be covering a part of the public thoroughfare and areas of
exclusive transit of the claimant, beyond the strict access that by the surveillance of the
property could be considered adequate.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

In addition, in the photographic report of the claimant it is not seen that the claimed party
have an information poster informing about the presence of cameras and
on the identity of the data controller.

Article 5.1 c) of the RGPD provides that personal data will be “adequate,
“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed (“data minimization”).

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD provides that:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information."

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Nor can images of public spaces be obtained with this type of device,
as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards a private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which are seen
intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install sections for obtaining images
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

Article 13 of the RGPD, sections 1 and 2, establishes the information that must be provided
to the interested party at the time of collecting their data. In the case of treatments
of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems or
video cameras, the duty of information can be fulfilled by placing, in the
video-monitored areas, an informative badge located in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces, and using forms in the
that the planned information is detailed, which the person in charge must make available
of those interested.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

These infractions are typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) The rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, they are considered very
serious and prescribe after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which
establishes that:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679;

(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law.”

III

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they find the power to direct a warning (art. 58.2 b)), the power
to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD (art. 58.2 i)),
or the power to order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the
treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period (art. 58.2 d)).

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

In the present case, considering the special circumstances that concur in the
claimed responsible for the infringement and making a broad interpretation of the
criterion inspired by Recital 148 of the RGPD, according to which when the fine that
likely to be imposed would constitute a disproportionate burden may
be imposed instead of the sanction of a fine a warning, it is estimated that by the
Infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, it is appropriate to direct a warning.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

In this case, it has been verified that the defendant has in his home
four video surveillance cameras oriented in accordance with protection regulations
of personal data. By not exclusively limiting the capture of
images inside the house because the cameras are located outside, it is
capable of capturing images of people outside the property (access area or
perimeter), resulting in application of the aforementioned regulations.

After analyzing the images provided by the respondent in the writ of
allegations to the opening agreement, it is considered that the exterior cameras that are
capable of capturing images of public transit areas are within
the limits indicated in article 22 of the LOPDGDD, since they only focus on one
minimum portion of the public road adjacent to the access to the requested dwelling,
being provided. As for the claimant's private transit areas,
consider that none of the exterior cameras are placed in such a way as to capture
direct images of the claimant's property, so there is no excess in the
catchment. For this reason, the defendant's conduct does not imply a violation of the
article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

However, the respondent has not provided any photograph or document that
allows you to check if there is an informative poster of a video-surveillance area. Therefore, and
given that the claimant provided several photographs of the exterior of the home, without
observe in any of them any distinctive, it is understood that there is an infringement of the
article 13 of the RGPD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: ORDER to B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1 that under article 58.2 d) of the
GDPR, within ten business days, take the following measures:

- Prove that you have proceeded to place the informative poster in the areas
video-monitored (at least the existence of a treatment must be identified,
the identity of the controller and the possibility of exercising the rights provided
in said precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently
visible.

- Prove that you keep the information to which it refers available to those affected.

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

