1/5

 File No.: EXP202203041

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 9, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. claims her-
tion is directed against WE RENT, S.L. with NIF B98924947 (hereinafter, the party claiming
mada). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

“has installed a series of video surveillance cameras on the façade of an in-
furniture, which are oriented to adjoining houses, as well as access to a warehouse owned by
mercy of another entity, not having prior authorization for it”

 Provide Notarial Certificate dated January 25, 2022, which includes photos-
graphs of the situation of the cameras, as well as the taking of photographs in the property
where they have been installed—***ADDRESS.1--.

Photographs 15 and 16 show the existence of vision cameras in the
main façade of number ***ADDRESS.1, in which there are two of them and in one
side wall of said building, in which there is the third of the aforementioned chambers.
flush

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the party claimed on fe-
date 03/11/22, 04/01/22 and 04/18/22, to proceed with its analysis and inform
this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to
the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

After consulting the database of this Agency, the notification has been made
both electronically and by post, in the latter case being returned by the
Official Postal Service "Wrong Address".

THIRD: On June 9, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LO-
PDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On July 29, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FIFTH: On 08/25/22, a written statement of allegations from the claimed party was received
manifesting the legality of the system, counting the cameras with privacy mask
as well as with an informative poster duly marked informing about it
that it is a “video-surveilled” area.

SIXTH: On 09/06/22 the "Proposal for a Resolution" is issued proposing the Archi-
vo, considering that the evidence provided does not allow us to verify an administrative infraction
any treatment in the matter that concerns us, considering the system according to law
cho.

SEVENTH: Consulted the database of this Agency on 12/02/22, no
received any allegation to the proposed resolution, notified to it.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 03/09/22 through the
which translates the following fact:

“has installed a series of video surveillance cameras on the façade of an in-
furniture, which are oriented to adjoining houses, as well as access to a warehouse owned by
mercy of another entity, not having prior authorization for it”

 Provide Notarial Certificate dated January 25, 2022, which includes photographs
of the situation of the cameras, as well as the taking of photographs in the property where
have been installed—***ADDRESS.1--.

Second. The entity We Rent has been identified as the main responsible party, with NIF
B98924947, which confirms the presence of a video surveillance system.

Third. No processing of third-party data has been verified, nor has it affected other
private areas without justified cause, the installed cameras being equipped with
privacy masks.

Room. The system is duly informing with informative signage
indicating the person responsible and the way to exercise the rights in the current legal framework.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each authori-
quality of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulations
comments dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sisidario, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In the present case, the claim dated 03/09/22 is examined by means of
gave from which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“presence of several video-surveillance cameras that affect various properties

without justified cause” -folio nº 1--.

The art. 5.1 c) GDPR provides the following: Personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative poster
tive, indicating the purposes and person responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit thereof without just cause.

Neither with this type of device can you obtain an image(s) of public space.
since this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the State
tado.

The recording of personal conversations both in companies and in communities
of owners (as), supposes an invasion of the privacy of the user, for what with the
except that there is prior judicial authorization and the recordings are made
by the competent people to do so, this type of behavior is not allowed.
cough.

It should be remembered that even if it is a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimate
measured by it in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining
images of public space and/or traffic of third parties, outside the cases allowed in
the normative.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

The purpose of this type of device must be the security of the property and
its inhabitants, avoiding the affectation of the rights of third parties who are intimidated
two with the same

II

The party claimed on 08/25/22 proceeds to reply to this Agency with-
signing the presence of the cameras, although providing the necessary documentary evidence.
caesarias to prove the legality of the same.

Examined these by the investigating body, no infringement is found, at the
The cameras must be equipped with privacy masks and have the proper signage.
information in this regard, informing that it is a "video-surveilled area".

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when a proof of accreditation of the facts has not been obtained and verified.
crimes that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
tor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its various manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and an adversarial procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charges or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without
that no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the body
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning Law and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the set of evidence and a procedure
contradictory in which one's own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no sanction may be imposed based on the
guilt of the accused if there is no probative activity, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV.

According to the allegations put forward and the evidence provided, it is considered that the
system does not affect the rights of third parties, fulfilling a function of protection of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

industrial warehouse where it is installed, not affecting the rights of third parties, which
that justifies agreeing to file this procedure.
  
Therefore, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILING of this procedure as there is no accredited
gives any infringement in the matter at hand.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity WE RENT, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties
Respondents may optionally file an appeal for reinstatement before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
fourth clause of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administration, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If it is-
As the case may be, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer the documentation to the Agency
proving the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. if the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
treatment within two months from the day following notification of this
resolution, would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

