Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the
Bill no. 7257 amending the amended law of 21
September 2006 on residential leases and modifying certain
provisions of the Civil Code.
 

Deliberation n° 20/2020 of 07/28/2020

 

 
 
In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General on Data Protection) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which Article 7 of the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.
 
By letter dated May 7, 2020, the Minister for Housing invited the Commission
national government to decide on draft law no. 7257 amending the amended law
of September 21, 2006 on residential leases and amending certain provisions of the Code
civil law (hereinafter the “proposed law”).
 
The purpose of this bill is to modify the law of 21 September 2006 on leases
residential use and modifying certain provisions of the Civil Code (hereinafter the "Law of 21
September 2006”). The measures provided for in the bill are intended to deal with
the housing crisis that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is currently experiencing.
 
The main points of the bill are as follows:

-

-

-

-

the introduction of a weighting coefficient (“rental reference value”) intended to
limit the impact of the purchase prices of rental properties on rents legally
possible;
the obligation for lessors to include in any new lease contract the capital invested
as well as the rent reference value;
the redefinition of the concept of "luxury accommodation" appearing in the aforementioned law of 21
September 2006; and
the creation of the national rent commission with national powers,
in particular for the collection of data relating to residential leases and for the fixing
subsequent to the "rental reference value".

 

 

1

This opinion will limit its observations to Article 1 point 5° of the bill insofar as it
creates a database that will be held by the National Rent Commission, only article
relating to the protection of personal data.
 

1. Preliminary remarks

 

Article 1 point 5° of the bill introduces a new paragraph (6) to article 3 of the
law of September 21, 2006 which provides for the obligation for each lessor to include in any new
lease contract the capital invested as well as the reference value of the rent. The lessor or his
representative must, in addition, send a copy of the lease contract to the national commission
rents which will be recorded in a database "subject to the provisions of the law of
2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character”1 “the location of the accommodation, the type of accommodation, the surname, first name and
address of the owner, the surname and first name of the tenant, the capital invested, that adjusted to the year
1995 reference value, the revalued and discounted amount, the rent reference value and the amount
rent”. The surname, first name and address of the owner, and the surname and first name of the tenant
constitute personal data within the meaning of Article 4, paragraph (1) of the GDPR.
 
The National Commission is pleased that the bill provides for the principle of the creation
of such a database in accordance with Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR2. This article
provides, in fact, a specific constraint related to the lawfulness of a necessary data processing
compliance with a legal obligation or the performance of a mission of public interest or falling within the scope of
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In these two cases
figure, the basis and purposes of the data processing must specifically be
provided for either by European Union law or by the law of the Member State to which the
controller is submitted.
 
However, and although the principle of creating such a database is provided for in
the bill, the National Commission notes that certain elements relating to the processing
of data are not (or not sufficiently) specified in the bill.
 
Indeed, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to Union law or
the right of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this right could
specify the general conditions of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of
personal data, establish the specifications aimed at determining the person responsible for the

                                                 
1 The National Commission would like to point out that the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data was repealed by Article 72 of the Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission
national data protection system and the general data protection regime. It is therefore appropriate to refer to the
legislation currently in force.
2 Article 6, paragraph (3) provides that the “legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the
rules of the regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the controller; them
persons concerned ; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated and the purposes for which
which they may be; purpose limitation; retention periods; and processing operations and procedures,
including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those provided for in other specific situations of
treatment as provided for in Chapter IX”.

 

2

the entities to which

processing, the type of personal data being processed, the persons
concerned,
personal data may be
communicated, purpose limitations, retention period and other measures aimed at
to guarantee lawful and fair processing. […]”. Pursuant to the aforementioned provisions, these legal bases
should contain specific provisions concerning, inter alia, the types of data
processed, data subjects, entities to which the data may be
communicated and for what purposes, the retention periods of the data or the
processing operations and procedures.
 

2. On the determination of the purposes of the processing

 

It should be noted that according to Article 5 paragraph (1), letter b) of the GDPR, the data
of a personal nature must be "collected for specified, explicit and
legitimate purposes, and not further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes
(...)”.
 
As set out above, Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR, read together with its paragraph (1)
letter c) and (e), provides for a particular constraint related to the lawfulness of data processing
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a task in the public interest or
relating to the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In
these two scenarios, the basis and purposes of the data processing must
specifically be provided for either by European Union law or by the law of the State
member to which the controller is subject.
 
Recital (41) of the GDPR further specifies that "this legal basis or measure
legislation should be clear and precise and its application should be predictable for
litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of
the European Court of Human Rights. ".
 
However, it should be noted that the current drafting of the bill does not respect the
aforementioned provisions, whereas the purposes of the processing referred to in the new Article 3
paragraph (6) of the law of September 21, 2006 do not clearly result from the proposal for
law.
 
Details as to the purposes that would be pursued are also not provided by
the authors of the bill. Indeed, the latter limit themselves to exposing, in their
commentary to article 1 point 5° of the bill, the process by which the data
will be collected by the National Rent Commission.
 
Thus, it is specified that: "a copy of each lease contract concluded or modified after the entry
into force of this law, is transmitted within one month following the conclusion by the lessor
or his representative — for example a real estate agent — to the National Commission for
rents”, then “the national commission records the location of the accommodation, the type of
accommodation, the surname, first name and address of the owner, the surname and first name of the tenant, the capital

 

3

invested, that adjusted to the reference year 1995, the revalued and discounted amount, the value of
reference of the rent and the amount of the agreed rent in a database”. He is still
specified that “(…) the national commission verifies the copies of lease contracts which have been
transmitted under these provisions. In the event that the National Commission finds that a contract
does not meet the requirements of this law, it takes the initiative to have the
contractual terms in question”.
 
The CNPD therefore understands that the personal data collected by the commission
national rents via the copy of the lease contract would be for two distinct purposes, one
would be in order to fulfill its mission of control and the second would be so that these data
appear in the aforementioned database.
 
It should also be noted that, according to the explanatory memorandum, the aforementioned database allows
to make "statistical data, anonymized, available to the Observatoire de l'Habitat,
of STATEC and other research and statistics centres, in order to improve the monitoring of
rental market” 3.
 
Nevertheless, as noted by the Council of State in its opinion of April 28, 2020 relating to this
bill: “The communication of personal data could still be
understand, to some extent, from the perspective that the national rent commission
would be in charge of setting the weighting coefficients. However, according to the authors of
bill, this fixing will belong to the National Institute of Statistics and Studies
economic. »4.
 
Therefore, like the Council of State, the CNPD considers it necessary that the purposes of the processing
implemented by the National Rent Commission are clearly specified in the text
of the bill and therefore considers it essential that the authors of the bill
indicate precisely which categories of data are processed for which purposes.
 
This problem arises with all the more importance since, as pointed out by the Conseil
of State, the bill “in addition provides for substantial criminal penalties in the event of
breach of the obligation to communicate”.
 
In the absence of clarification of the purposes pursued, the National Commission wonders
how the national rent commission in the context of the implementation of the treatments
of personal data covered by this bill is able to
determine whether it complies with the principles of data minimization and limitation of the
retention of data while pursuant to paragraph (2) of Article 5 of the GDPR the
controller “shall be responsible for compliance with paragraph (1)5 and is able to
demonstrate that it is respected” (see sections 3 and 5 of this opinion).

                                                 
3 Page 27 of the bill.
4 Parliamentary document n°7257/05, page 4.
5 Article 5 paragraph (1) of the GDPR provides that: “(1) Personal data must be: (…)

 

4


The CNPD can only approve the remarks of the Council of State in that it “cannot
admit that in the absence of a clear determination of a specific purpose of the processing, the data
can be kept and used by the National Rent Commission beyond the examination
which it can proceed under article 5 of the bill under opinion. »6.
 

3. On the principle of minimization of personal data

 
Article 5 paragraph (1), letter c) of the GDPR provides that personal data
must be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for which they are processed”.
 
It follows from this principle that only the data necessary to
the fulfillment of the purpose of the processing. In other words, it's about not giving
access to more data than necessary for the national rent commission in the
framework of the processing implemented.
 
However, in the absence of precision as to the purposes that would be pursued by the commission
National Rent Agency as part of the implementation of data processing
personnel covered by article 1 point 5° of the bill, the CNPD is not in a position to
to assess whether the categories of data listed in the aforementioned article are adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary for those purposes. Therefore, the
CNPD does not know whether the principle of data minimization would be respected in this case.
 
The National Commission would also like to emphasize the importance of this principle as it
it is up to the legislator to implement and concretely apply the principle of
minimization of data, otherwise the law would not meet the requirement of precision and
predictability to which a legal text must respond without the case law of the European Court of
human right7.
 
Although it is not possible for it to assess whether the principle of minimization would be respected, the
CNPD welcomes the fact that point 5° of article 1 of the bill lists the data to be
personal character brought to appear in the database8. However, she finds that

                                                 
vs)

e)

adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (minimization
Datas); (…)
kept in a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed; personal data may be stored
for longer periods insofar as they will be processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest,
for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1), provided
that the appropriate technical and organizational measures required by this Regulation are implemented in order to
guarantee the rights and freedoms of the data subject (limitation of storage); (…)”

6 Parliamentary document n°7257/05, page 4.
7 See in particular ECHR, Libert c. France, 22 February 2018, paragraph 43.
8 According to article 1 point 5° of the bill, the national rent commission would collect “the location of the
accommodation, the type of accommodation, the last name, first name and address of the owner, the last name and first name of the tenant, the capital invested, that
adjusted to the reference year 1995, the revalued and discounted amount, the reference value of the rent and the amount of the rent" as well as
the “(…) copy of each lease contract entered into or modified after the entry into force of this law (…)”.

5

 

is not clear from the bill whether the copies of the lease contract - which will contain
undeniably still other personal data than those listed in Article 1 point 5°
- are also required to appear in the database while the lessors or their
representative are required to provide such a copy to the National Rent Commission, or if
such copies will be in a separate database while the explanatory memorandum
specifies that the national commission “will centralize the lease contracts”.
 
Clarifications on this subject deserve to be provided by the authors of the bill.
 

4. On the consultation of the data appearing in the database held by the

national rent commission

 
The bill provides that "The database of data recorded by the commission
National Rent Fund can be consulted for statistical and research needs. The
consultation procedures are set by Grand-Ducal regulation”.
 
The authors of the bill specify in the commentary to the articles that "The bank
data recorded by the National Rent Commission can be consulted for
statistical and research needs, such as STATEC, the Observatoire de l'Habitat,
research centers. For this purpose the data is of course made anonymous. The
consultation procedures are set by Grand-Ducal regulation”.
 
In the absence of a draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the procedures for consulting the
database, the National Commission is not in a position to fully assess whether the
consultation of the data contained in the “data bank recorded by the
national rent commission” complies with the GDPR.
 
However, it would already like to point out that it is apparent from the comments of the authors of the
bill as to the provisions set out above, that only data provided
anonymous data would be communicated to STATEC and the Observatoire de l’Habitat and to “centres
of research ". The CNPD therefore understands that STATEC, the Housing Observatory and the
“research centers” (whose identity should be specified where appropriate) would not, in
reality, no access to said database but only access to data
anonymized by the National Rent Commission.
 
To the extent that the comments of the authors of the bill differ from the provisions
provisions of article 1 point 5° of the bill, it should be clearly mentioned in the
bill if it is a direct access to personal data contained in the
database or if it is a communication of anonymized data, obtained on
database contained in the database.
 
In addition, article 1 point 5° of the bill aimed at consulting data “for
statistical and research needs”, it should be recalled that under the principle of
purpose limitation (Article 5 of the GDPR), personal data must be collected for

 

6

specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not to be further processed by a
manner incompatible with these purposes. Thus, the data must not be processed for
purposes "incompatible" with the original purposes. Nevertheless, recital 50 of the GDPR
specifies that "Further processing for archival purposes in the public interest, for the purposes of
scientific or historical research or for statistical purposes should be considered as
compatible lawful processing operation”.
 
Articles 6 paragraph (4) and 89 of the GDPR as well as article 65 of the law of 1 August 2018
on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the regime
general on data protection, specify the appropriate measures that must be put in place
implemented by the data controller during such subsequent data processing.
 
The National Rent Commission will therefore have to fulfill all the conditions provided for by
the legal provisions set out above in order to allow the communication of data to
personal character contained in the said database at STATEC, at the Observatory of
Housing and “research centres”.
 
As mentioned above, the actual text of the bill does not specify that the data
should be anonymized for "statistical and research purposes", but only the
commentary to the articles refers to it. That said, the CNPD notes that such a measure constitutes
indeed one of the appropriate measures referred to in article 65 of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018. This
article provides that: “anonymization, pseudonymization within the meaning of article 4,
paragraph 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 or other functional separation measures
guaranteeing that the data collected for the purposes of scientific or historical research, or
statistical purposes, cannot be used to make decisions or actions with regard to
of the persons concerned”.
 
However, the National Commission intends to draw the attention of the authors of the bill
on the fact that anonymization is a processing operation that consists of using a set of techniques
in such a way as to render impossible, in practice, any identification of the person by any
means whatsoever and irreversibly. On the contrary, pseudonymization, such as
defined by Article 4 paragraph (5) of the GDPR, is a processing of personal data carried out
in such a way that they can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject
without having recourse to additional information, provided that this information
additional data are kept separately and subject to technical and
organizational to ensure that personal data is not attributed
to an identified or identifiable natural person”.
 
Therefore, it is important that the authors of the bill analyze whether the commission
national rents will communicate pseudonymised data within the meaning of the GDPR, or
truly anonymized or “anonymized” data, in which case the GDPR would not have
intended to apply from the moment such data no longer allow any
identification of the person by any means whatsoever and irreversibly.
 

 

7

Finally, the National Commission also suggests that the authors of the bill
use the exact terminology of the GDPR and the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of
the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the protection
data, with regard to the processing of personal data "for the purposes
statistics" or for the purposes of "scientific or historical research" and not as
mentioned in this bill "for statistical and research purposes".
 

5. On the retention period of personal data

 
In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, personal data
must not be kept for longer than necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes
for which they are collected and processed.
 
In the absence of specification of a retention period in the bill or in the
commentary on the articles, the CNPD is not in a position to assess whether, in this case, the principle
limited data retention period is respected regarding the collection of data
of a personal nature recorded in the database covered by this proposal
of law as well as concerning the copies of the lease contract.
 
The CNPD therefore considers it necessary for the authors of the bill to specify in the
text of article 1 point 5° what is the retention period or at least the criteria allowing
to determine what is the proportionate retention period for the categories of data
stated above.
 
 
Thus decided in Belvaux on July 28, 2020.
 
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 
Tine A. Larsen
   President

    Christopher Buschman
            Commissioner

       Marc Lemmer
        Commissioner

Thierry Lallemang
    Commissioner

 

8

