1CO.

Information Commissioner’s Office

PENALTY NOTICE

Section 155, Data protection Act 2018

Case ref: COM0804337

Marriott International Inc
10400 Fernwood Road
Bethesda

MD20817

USA

30 October 2020

1. INTRODUCTION & SUMMARY

1.1. This Penalty Notice is given to Marriott International Inc
(“Marriott”) pursuant to section 155 and Schedule 16 of the Data
Protection Act 2018 (the “DPA”). It relates to infringements of the
General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”), which came to
the attention of the Information Commissioner (“the
Commissioner”) as a result of an attack on Marriott’s IT systems?
that took place over a period that included 25 May 2018 to 17
September 2018 (the “Attack”).

1.2. Insummary, in 2014 the IT systems of Starwood Hotels and Resorts
Worldwide Inc (“Starwood”) were compromised by an unknown
attacker or attackers (referred to, for ease of reference, as “the
Attacker”), utilising an unknown attack vector. In 2016, Marriott
acquired Starwood. Marriott did not detect the Attack at any time
between acquiring Starwood and September 2018, including in the
period after the entry into force of the GDPR in May 2018. During
this latter period, the Attacker continued to traverse through the
Starwood systems and had gained access to the cardholder data
environment within the Starwood network. This access allowed the
Attacker to export the personal data of Starwood customers to
“dmp” files on the Starwood systems, potentially with a view to
taking a copy of that data. It was only when the Attacker triggered
an alert in relation to a table containing cardholder data that the
Attack was discovered and could be mitigated. The personal data of
a large number of individuals was involved in the Attack, including
cardholder data, although the Commissioner has not seen any
evidence of financial harm to individuals. Following the alert,
Marriott promptly informed affected data subjects and took
immediate steps to mitigate the effects of the Attack and to protect
the interests of data subjects by implementing remedial measures.

1.3. Marriott is an _ international hotel chain, with operational
headquarters in the USA. The provisions of the DPA and the GDPR
apply to the processing of personal data by Marriot by virtue of

1 References in this decision to Marriott’s systems / network / security etc. concern the IT systems
etc. that Marriott acquired from Starwood in September 2016 and retained and continued to use
post-acquisition.

1.4.

1.5.

1.6.

1.7.

1.8.

section 207(2) DPA and Article 3(1) GDPR. Marriott has confirmed
that Marriott Hotels Limited is Marriott’s main establishment within
the EU, as defined in Article 4(16) GDPR.

The data subjects affected by this breach were customers of
Starwood, which was at the relevant time owned by Marriott, in the
United Kingdom, elsewhere in the EU, and in the rest of the world.

Marriott was the controller in respect of the personal data of its
customers within the meaning of section 6 DPA and Article 4(7)
GDPR, as it determined the purposes and means of the processing
of the personal data. By inter alia collecting, recording, organising,
structuring and storing the personal data of its customers, Marriott
was processing that data within the meaning of section 3(4) DPA
and Article 4(2) GDPR.

Marriott has not admitted liability for breach of the GDPR. However,
for the reasons set out in this Penalty Notice, the Commissioner has
found that Marriott failed to process personal data in a manner that
ensured appropriate security of the personal data, including
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against
accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical
and organisational measures, as required by Article 5(1)(f) and
Article 32 GDPR.

The Commissioner has found that, in all the circumstances, and
having regard, in particular, to Marriott’s representations and the
matters listed in Article 83(1) and (2) GDPR, the infringements
constitute a serious failure to comply with the GDPR and,
accordingly, that the imposition of a penalty is appropriate. The
amount of the penalty that the Commissioner has decided to
impose, having taken into account a range of mitigating factors set
out further below and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, is £18.4
million.

Pursuant to Article 56 GDPR, the Commissioner is acting as lead
Supervisory authority in respect of the cross-border processing at
issue in this case.

2.LEGAL FRAMEWORK
GDPR

2.1. On 25 May 2018, the GDPR entered into force, replacing the
previous EU law data protection regime that applied under Directive
95/46/EC (“Data Protection Directive”)*. The GDPR seeks to
harmonise the protection of fundamental rights in respect of
personal data across EU Member States and, unlike the Data
Protection Directive, is directly applicable in every Member State.*

2.2. The GDPR was developed and enacted in the context of challenges
to the protection of personal data posed by, in particular:

a. the substantial increase in cross-border flows of personal data
resulting from the functioning of the internal market;* and

b. the rapid technological developments which have occurred
during a period of globalisation.? As Recital (6) explains: “... The
scale of the collection and sharing of personal data has
increased’ significantly. Technology allows’ both private
companies and public authorities to make use of personal data
on an unprecedented scale in order to pursue their activities....”

2.3. Such developments made it necessary for “a strong and more
coherent data protection framework in the Union, backed by strong
enforcement, given the importance of creating the trust that will
allow the digital economy to develop across the internal market...”.®

2.4. Against that background, the GDPR imposed more stringent duties
on controllers and significantly increased the penalties that could be
imposed for a breach of the obligations imposed on controllers
(amongst others).’

2 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement
of such data.

3 Recital 3.

4 Recital 5.

> Recital 6.

© Recital 7.

’ See, in particular, Recitals 11, 148, 150, and Article 5, Chapter IV and Article 83.

2.5.

2.6.

2./.

2.8.

The relevant obligations

Chapter 1 GDPR sets out the general provisions. Article 5 of Chapter
II GDPR sets out the principles relating to the processing of personal
data. Article 5(1) lists the six basic principles that controllers must
comply with in processing personal data, including:

1. Personal data shall be:

..(f) processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security
of the personal data, including’ protection § against
unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental
loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or
organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’)

Article 5(2) GDPR makes it clear that the “controller shall be
responsible for, and be able to demonstrate compliance with,
paragraph 1 (‘accountability’)”.

Chapter IV, Section 1 addresses the general obligations of
controllers and processors. Article 24 sets out the responsibility of
controllers for taking appropriate steps to ensure and be able to
demonstrate that processing is compatible with the GDPR. Articles
28-29 make separate provision for the processing of data by
processors, under the instructions of the controller.

Chapter IV, Section 2 addresses security of personal data. Article 32
GDPR provides:

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes
of processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and
severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the
controller and the processor shall implement appropriate
technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of
security appropriate to the risk, including inter alia as
appropriate:

(a) the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data;

(b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality,
integrity, availability and resilience of processing
systems and services;

(C) ...

(d)a process for regularly testing, assessing and
evaluating the’ effectiveness of technical and

organisational measures for ensuring the security of
processing.

2. In assessing the appropriate level of security, account shall
be taken in particular of the risks that are presented by
processing, in particular from accidental or unlawful
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or
access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise
processed.

2.9. Article 32 GDPR applies to both controllers and processors.

Penalties

2.10. Article 83(1) GDPR requires supervisory authorities to ensure that
any penalty imposed in each individual case is “effective,
proportionate and dissuasive”,.

2.11. The principle that penalties ought to be effective, proportionate and
dissuasive is a longstanding principle of EU law. The Commissioner
is under an EU law obligation to ensure that infringements of the
GDPR are penalised in a manner that is effective, proportionate and
dissuasive.

2.12. Further, Recital 148 emphasises, inter alia, that “in order to
strengthen the enforcement of the rules of this Regulation, penalties
including administrative fines should be imposed for any
infringement of this Regulation, in addition to, or instead of
appropriate measures imposed by the supervisory§ authority
pursuant to this Regulation.” It also records that due regard should
be given to the:

. nature, gravity and duration of the infringement, the
intentional character of the infringement, actions taken to
mitigate the damage suffered, degree of responsibility or any
relevant previous infringements, the manner in which the
infringement became known to the supervisory authority,
compliance with measures ordered against the controller or
processor, adherence to a code of conduct and any other
aggravating or mitigating factor...

2.13. Recital 150 provides as follows:

In order to strengthen and harmonise’ administrative
penalties for infringements of this Regulation, each
supervisory authority should have the power to impose

administrative fines. This Regulation should _ indicate
infringements and the upper limit and criteria for setting the
related administrative fines, which should be determined by
the competent supervisory authority in each individual case,
taking into account all relevant circumstances of the specific
situation, with due regard in particular to the nature, gravity
and duration of the infringement and of its consequences and
the measures taken to ensure compliance with the obligations
under this Regulation and to prevent or mitigate the
consequences of the infringement. Where administrative
fines are imposed on an undertaking, an undertaking should
be understood to be an undertaking in accordance with
Articles 101 and 102 TFEU for those purposes. Where
administrative fines are imposed on persons that are not an
undertaking, the supervisory authority should take account of
the general level of income in the Member State as well as
the economic situation of the person in considering the
appropriate amount of the fine. The consistency mechanism
may also be used to promote a consistent application of
administrative fines. It should be for the Member States to
determine whether and to which extent public authorities
should be subject to administrative fines. Imposing an
administrative fine or giving a warning does not affect the
application of other powers of the supervisory authorities or
of other penalties under this Regulation.

2.14. In line with the above, when deciding whether to impose a fine and
the appropriate amount of any such fine, Article 83(2) GDPR
requires the Commissioner to have regard to the following matters:

(a)the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement
taking into account the nature scope or purpose of the
processing concerned as well as the number of data
subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by
them;

(b) the intentional or negligent character of the infringement;

(c) any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate
the damage suffered by data subjects;

(d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account technical and organisational measures
implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;

(e) any relevant previous infringements by the controller or
processor;

(f) the degree of co-operation with the supervisory authority,
in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the
possible adverse effects of the infringement;

(g)the categories of personal data affected by the
infringement;

(h) the manner in which the infringement became known to
the supervisory authority, including whether, and if so to
what extent, the controller or processor notified the
supervisory authority of the infringement;

(1) where measures referred to in Article 58(2) have
previously been ordered against the controller or
processor concerned with regard to the same subject-
matter, compliance with those measures;

(j) adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to
Article 40 or approved certification mechanisms pursuant
to Article 42; and

(k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to
the case, including financial benefits gained, or losses
avoided, directly or indirectly from the infringement. ®

2.15. Article 83(5) GDPR provides that infringements of the basic
principles for processing imposed pursuant to Article 5 GDPR will, in
accordance with Article 83(2) GDPR, be subject to administrative
fines of up to €20 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to
4% of its total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial
year, whichever is higher.

2.16. Article 83(4) GDPR provides, inter alia, that infringements of the
obligations imposed by Article 32 GDPR on the controller and
processer will, in accordance with Article 83(2) GDPR, be subject to
administrative fines of up to €10 million or, in the case of an

8 See also the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party Guidelines on the application and setting of
administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 3 October 2017, endorsed
by the European Data Protection Board at its first plenary session. These provide a high-level
overview of the assessment criteria set out in Article 83(2) GDPR in Section III (“the Article 29 WP
Guidelines”.

8

undertaking, up to 2% of its total worldwide annual turnover of the
preceding financial year, whichever is higher.

2.17. Article 83(3) GDPR addresses the circumstances in which the same
or linked processing operations give rise to infringements of several
provisions of the GDPR. It provides that “... the total amount of the
administrative fine shall not exceed the amount specified for the
gravest infringement”.

2.18. Article 83(8) GDPR provides that the exercise by any supervisory
authority of its powers to fine undertakings will be subject to
procedural safeguards, including an effective judicial remedy and
due process.

Cooperation and consistency

2.19. Where, as here, the processing in issue is cross-border, Article 56
GDPR makes provision for the designation of a lead supervisory
authority. In this case, the Commissioner is acting as the lead
Supervisory authority. Chapter VII GDPR establishes the regime for
ensuring cooperation between lead and other concerned supervisory
authorities, permitting unified decision-making.°

2.20. Article 60 GDPR provides:

1. The lead supervisory authority shall cooperate with the
other supervisory authorities concerned in accordance with
this Article in an endeavour to reach consensus. The lead
supervisory authority and the supervisory authorities
concerned shall exchange all relevant information with each
other.

2. The lead supervisory authority may request at any time
other supervisory authorities concerned to provide mutual
assistance pursuant to Article 61 and may conduct joint
operations pursuant to Article 62, in particular for carrying
out investigations or for monitoring the implementation of a
measure concerning a controller or processor established in
another Member State.

3. The lead supervisory authority shall, without delay,
communicate the relevant information on the matter to the
other supervisory authorities concerned. It shall without

° The relevant provisions enacting this regime must be read subject to, in particular, Articles 7, 70
and 127-128 and 131 of the Withdrawal Agreement between the EU and United Kingdom.

9

delay submit a draft decision to the other supervisory
authorities concerned for their opinion and take due account
of their views.

4. Where any of the other supervisory authorities concerned
within a period of four weeks after having been consulted in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, expresses a
relevant and reasoned objection to the draft decision, the lead
supervisory authority shall, if it does not follow the relevant
and reasoned objection or is of the opinion that the objection
is not relevant or reasoned, submit the matter to the
consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63.

5. Where the lead supervisory authority intends to follow the
relevant and reasoned objection made, it shall submit to the
other supervisory authorities concerned a revised draft
decision for their opinion. That revised draft decision shall be
subject to the procedure referred to in paragraph 4 within a
period of two weeks.

6. Where none of the other supervisory authorities concerned
has objected to the draft decision submitted by the lead
supervisory authority within the period referred to in
paragraphs 4 and 5, the lead supervisory authority and the
supervisory authorities concerned shall be deemed to be in
agreement with that draft decision and shall be bound by tt.

7. The lead supervisory authority shall adopt and notify the
decision to the main establishment or single establishment of
the controller or processor, as the case may be and inform
the other supervisory authorities concerned and the Board of
the decision in question, including a summary of the relevant
facts and grounds. The supervisory authority with which a
complaint has been lodged shall inform the complainant on
the decision.

8. By derogation from paragraph 7, where a complaint Is
dismissed or rejected, the supervisory authority with which
the complaint was lodged shall adopt the decision and notify
it to the complainant and shall inform the controller thereof.

9. Where the lead supervisory authority and the supervisory
authorities concerned agree to dismiss or reject parts of a
complaint and to act on other parts of that complaint, a
separate decision shall be adopted for each of those parts of
the matter. The lead supervisory authority shall adopt the
decision for the part concerning actions in relation to the

10

2.21.

controller, shall notify it to the main establishment or single
establishment of the controller or processor on the territory
of its Member State and shall inform the complainant thereof,
while the supervisory authority of the complainant shall adopt
the decision for the part concerning dismissal or rejection of
that complaint, and shall notify it to that complainant and
Shall inform the controller or processor thereof.

10. After being notified of the decision of the lead supervisory
authority pursuant to paragraphs 7 and 9, the controller or
processor shall take the necessary measures to ensure
compliance with the decision as regards processing activities
in the context of all its establishments in the Union. The
controller or processor shall notify the measures taken for
complying with the decision to the lead supervisory authority,
which shall inform the other supervisory authorities
concerned.\ ...

Article 60(4) refers to the consistency mechanism, which is in
Section 2 of Chapter VII GDPR. Article 63 provides that: “In order
to contribute to the consistent application of this Regulation
throughout the Union, the supervisory authorities shall cooperate
with each other and, where relevant, with the Commission, through
the consistency mechanism as set out in this Section.” Article 65
GDPR provides, insofar as relevant, that:

Dispute resolution by the Board

1. In order to ensure the correct and consistent application of
this Regulation in individual cases, the Board shall adopt a
binding decision in the following cases:

(a) where, in a case referred to in Article 60(4), a
supervisory authority concerned has raised a relevant
and reasoned objection to a draft decision of the lead
authority or the lead authority has rejected such an
objection as being not relevant or reasoned. The
binding decision shall concern all the matters which are
the subject

2. The decision referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted
within one month from the referral of the subject-matter by
a two-thirds majority of the members of the Board. That
period may be extended by a further month on account of the
complexity of the subject-matter. The decision referred to in
paragraph 1 shall be reasoned and addressed to the lead

11

supervisory authority and all the supervisory authorities
concerned and binding on them.

3. Where the Board has been unable to adopt a decision
within the periods referred to in paragraph 2, it shall adopt
its decision within two weeks following the expiration of the
second month referred to in paragraph 2 by a simple majority
of the members of the Board. Where the members of the
Board are split, the decision shall by adopted by the vote of
its Chair.

4. The supervisory authorities concerned shall not adopt a
decision on the subject matter submitted to the Board under
paragraph 1 during the periods referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3.

5. The Chair of the Board shall notify, without undue delay,
the decision referred to in paragraph 1 to the supervisory
authorities concerned. It shall inform the Commission
thereof. The decision shall be published on the website of the
Board without delay after the supervisory authority has
notified the final decision referred to in paragraph 6.

6. The lead supervisory authority or, as the case may be, the
supervisory authority with which the complaint has been
lodged shall adopt its final decision on the basis of the
decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, without
undue delay and at the latest by one month after the Board
has notified its decision. The lead supervisory authority or, as
the case may be, the supervisory authority with which the
complaint has been lodged, shall inform the Board of the date
when its final decision is notified respectively to the controller
or the processor and to the data subject. The final decision of
the supervisory authorities concerned shall be adopted under
the terms of Article 60(7), (8) and (9). The final decision shall
refer to the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article
and shall specify that the decision referred to in that
paragraph will be published on the website of the Board in
accordance with paragraph 5 of this Article. The final decision
Shall attach the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article.

DPA
The Commissioner

2.23. Section 115 DPA establishes that the Commissioner is the UK’s
Supervisory authority for the purposes of the GDPR. Section 115 DPA
12

2.24.

2.25.

2.26.

2.2/7.

2.28.

provides, inter alia, that the Commissioner’s powers under Articles
58(2)(i) (the power to impose administrative fines) and 83 GDPR
are exercisable only by giving a penalty notice under section 155
DPA.

Penalties

Section 155(1) DPA provides that, if the Commissioner is satisfied
that a person has failed or is failing as described in section 149(2)
DPA, the Commissioner may, by written notice (a “penalty notice”),
require the person to pay to the Commissioner an amount in sterling
specified in the notice.

Section 149(2) DPA provides:

(1) The first type of failure is where a controller or processor
has failed, or is failing, to comply with any of the following -

(a) a provision of Chapter II of the GDPR or Chapter 2 of
Part 3 or Chapter 2 of Part 4 of this Act (principles of
processing);

(b) ...

(c) a provision of Articles 25 to 39 of the GDPR or section
64 or 65 of this Act (obligations of controllers and
processors)...

Section 155 DPA sets out the matters to which the Commissioner
must have regard when deciding whether to issue a penalty notice
and when determining the amount of the penalty.

Section 155(2) DPA provides that, subject to subsection (4), when
deciding whether to give a penalty notice to a person and
determining the amount of the penalty, the Commissioner must
have regard to the matters listed in Article 83(1) and (2) GDPR.

Schedule 16 includes provisions relevant to the imposition of
penalties. Paragraph 2 makes provision for the issuing of notices of
intent to impose a penalty, as follows:

(1) Before giving a person a penalty notice, the Commissioner
must, by written notice (a “notice of intent”) inform the
person that the Commissioner intends to give a penalty
notice.

13

2.29.

2.30.

2.31.

(2) The Commissioner may not give a penalty notice to a
person in reliance on a notice of intent after the end of the
period of 6 months beginning when the notice of intent is
given, subject to sub-paragraph (3).

(3) The period for giving a penalty notice to a person may be
extended by agreement between the Commissioner and the
person.

Paragraph 5 sets out the required contents of a penalty notice, in
accordance with which this Penalty Notice has been prepared.

Guidance

Section 160 DPA requires the Commissioner to produce and publish
guidance about how she intends to exercise her functions. With
respect to penalty notices, such guidance is required to include:

(a) provision about the circumstances in_ which the
Commissioner would consider it appropriate to issue a penalty
notice;

(b) provision about the circumstances in_ which the
Commissioner would consider it appropriate to allow a person
to make oral representations about the Commissioner's
intention to give the person a penalty notice;

(c) provision explaining how the Commissioner — will
determine the amount of penalties;

(d) provision about how the Commissioner will determine
how to proceed if a person does not comply with a penalty
notice.

Pursuant to section 161 DPA, the Commissioner's first guidance
documents issued under section 160(1) DPA had to be consulted
upon and laid before Parliament by the Secretary of State in
accordance with the procedure set out in that section. Thereafter, in
issuing any altered or replacement guidance, the Commissioner
required to consult the Secretary of State and such other persons
as she considers appropriate. The Commissioner must also arrange
for such guidance to be laid before Parliament.

14

The Commissioner's Regulatory Action Policy

2.32.

2.33.

On 4 May 2018, the Commissioner opened a consultation process
on how the Commissioner planned to discharge her regulatory
powers under the DPA. The consultation attracted responses from
across civil society, commentators, and industry (including the
finance and insurance, online technology and telecoms, and charity
sectors). The consultation ended on 28 June 2018. Having taken all
the views received during the consultation process into account, the
Regulatory Action Policy (the “RAP”) was submitted to the Secretary
of State and laid before Parliament for approval.

Pursuant to section 160(1) DPA, the Commissioner published her
RAP on 7 November 2018. Under the hearing “Aims”, the RAP
explains that it seeks to:

e “Set out the nature of the Commissioner’s various powers in
one place and to be clear and consistent about when and how
we use them’;

e “Ensure that we take fair, proportionate and timely regulatory
action with a view to guaranteeing that individuals’ information
rights are properly protected”;

e “Guide the Commissioner and our staff in ensuring that any
regulatory action is targeted, proportionate and effective...”°

2.34. The objectives of regulatory action are set out at page 6 of the RAP,

including:

e “To respond swiftly and effectively to breaches of legislation
which fall within the ICO’s remit, focussing on [inter alia] those
adversely affecting large groups of individuals”.

e “To be effective, proportionate, dissuasive and consistent in our
application of sanctions”, targeting action taken pursuant to the
Commissioner’s most. significant powers on, inter alia,
“organisations and individuals suspected of repeated or wilful
misconduct or serious failures to take proper steps to protect
personal data”.

10 RAP, page 5.

15

2.35. The RAP explains that the Commissioner will adopt a selective
approach to regulatory action.4? When deciding whether and how to
respond to breaches of information rights obligations she will
consider criteria which include the following:

e “the nature and seriousness of the breach or potential breach”;

e “where relevant, the categories of personal data affected
(including whether any special categories of personal data are
involved) and the level of any privacy intrusion”;

e “the number of individuals affected, the extent of any exposure
to physical, financial or psychological harm, and, where it is an
issue, the degree of intrusion into their privacy”;

e “whether the issue raises new or repeated issues, or concerns
that technological security measures are not protecting the
personal data”;

e “the cost of measures to mitigate any risk, issue or harm’;

e “the public interest in regulatory action being taken (for
example, to provide an effective deterrent against future
breaches or clarify or test an issue in dispute)”.'¢

2.36. The RAP explains that, as a general principle, “more serious, high-
impact, intentional, wilful, neglectful or repeated breaches can
expect stronger regulatory action”.'?

2.37. Pages 24-25 of the RAP identify the circumstances in which the
issuing of a Penalty Notice will be appropriate. They explain, inter
alia, that in “... considering the degree of harm or damage we may
consider that, where there is a lower level of impact across a large
number of individuals, the totality of that damage or harm may be
substantial, and may require a sanction.” The RAP stresses that each
case will be assessed objectively on its own merits. However, it
explains that, in accordance with the Commissioner's risk-based
approach, a penalty is more likely to be imposed in, inter alia, the
following situations:

11 RAP, pages 6-7 and 10.
12 RAP, pages 10-11.
13 RAP, page 12.

16

“a number of individuals have been affected”;

“there has been a degree of damage or harm (which may
include distress and/or embarrassment)”; and

“there has been a failure to apply reasonable measures
(including relating to privacy by design) to mitigate any breach
(or the possibility of it)”.

2.38. The process the Commissioner will follow in deciding the appropriate
amount of penalty to be imposed is described from page 27
onwards. In particular, the RAP sets out the following five-step
process:

d.

Step 1. An ‘initial element’ removing any financial gain from
the breach.

Step 2. Adding in an element to censure the breach based on
its scale and severity, taking into account the considerations
identified at section 155(2)-(4) DPA.

Step 3. Adding in an element to reflect any aggravating factors.
A list of aggravating factors which the Commissioner would take
into account, where relevant, is provided at page 11 of the RAP.
This list is intended to be indicative, not exhaustive.

Step 4. Adding in an amount for deterrent effect to others.

Step 5. Reducing the amount (save that in the initial element)
to reflect any mitigating factors, including ability to pay
(financial hardship). A list of mitigating factors which the
Commissioner would take into account, where relevant, is
provided at page 11-12 of the RAP. This list is intended to be
indicative, not exhaustive.

3. CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE FAILURE: FACTS

Marriott’s acquisition of the Starwood network

33s

Marriot acquired Starwood in September 2016. During the
acquisition process, Starwood shareholders received 0.8 shares of
Marriott, as well as $21 per Starwood common stock. After the
acquisition, the Marriott and Starwood computer systems were kept

17

3.2.

3.3.

3.4.

separate, and they remained separate throughout the relevant
period. Marriott did, however, plan on integrating aspects of the
Starwood network into the Marriott network over an 18-month
period in order to create a single, unified network within Marriott’s
security footprint.

Upon acquisition, but prior to decommissioning the Starwood
network, Marriott made enhancements to the security of Starwood’s
existing IT network.

During the acquisition process, Marriott states that it was only able
to carry out limited due diligence on the Starwood data processing
systems and databases.'* For the avoidance of any doubt, the
Commissioner is not making any finding of infringement in respect
of the period between Marriott’s acquisition of Starwood and the
entry into force of the GDPR on 25 May 2018. Accordingly, the
Commissioner has not determined whether or not it was possible for
Marriott to conduct due diligence during a takeover. There may be
circumstances in which in-depth due diligence of a competitor is not
possible during a takeover.

This Penalty Notice concerns the extent to which, after the GDPR
came into effect on 25 May 2018, Marriott adequately prepared the
Starwood systems to protect personal data. In particular, it is
necessary to assess whether the Attack disclosed a failure to ensure
compliance with Articles 5.1(f) and 32 of the GDPR following its entry
into force.

The planned integration of the Starwood and Marriott networks

3.5.

3.6.

The integration of Starwood into the Marriott hotels group began
following the acquisition. While this involved the transferring of data
from the Starwood systems to the Marriott network, the systems
accessed by the Attacker remained segregated from the Marriott
network.

As a result, the Attack did not involve access to the wider Marriott
network and the Attacker would not have had access to personal
data that was processed only on non-Starwood systems. The
planned migration and the decommissioning of the Starwood

14 See, for example, the representations served by Marriott in response to the Commissioner’s Notice
of Intent (“Marriott’s First Representations”), para 1.33.

18

systems was expedited by Marriott after discovery of the Attack and
the decommissioning of the relevant Starwood systems was
completed on 11 December 2018.

The Attack

3.7. What follows is a summary of the key stages of the Attack.

Pre-acquisition infiltration of the Starwood IT systems

3.8. The Attacker installed a web shell on a device within the Starwood
network on 29 July 2014. This device was used to support an
Accolade software application. That application was used by
Starwood to allow employees to request changes to any content of
Starwood’s website.

3.9. The installation of a web shell on the server gave the Attacker the
ability to remotely access the system, therefore allowing for the
accessing and editing of the contents of that system. This access
was exploited in order to install Remote Access Trojans (“RATS”) -
malware which enables remote administrator control of the system.
Administrator access allows a user to perform actions above that
permitted by a normal user. As a result, the Attacker would have
had unrestricted access to the relevant device, and any other
devices on the network to which that administrator account would
have had access.

3.10. On an undetermined date, the Attacker installed and executed
“Mimikatz”. This is a post-exploitation tool which allows login
credentials temporarily stored in the system memory to be
harvested. It scanned the server for all the usernames and
passwords stored in this manner in the system and allowed the
Attacker to continue to compromise user accounts, which were
secured using a mixture of single and multi-factor authentication.+>°
These accounts were then used to perform further reconnaissance
and, ultimately, to rum commands on the Starwood reservation
database, as described below.

3.11. On 15 April 2015, a file named “Reservation _Room_sharer.dmp”
was created on a Starwood device. This file could have been created

15 Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.40 and page 63.

19

3.12.

by the Attacker with a view to exfiltrating all the data contained in
the table at once.?°®

On 21 April 2015, a file named “Consumption_Roomtype.dmp” was
created. This file could have been created by the Attacker with a
view to exfiltrating all the data contained in this table at once.?7

On 17 May 2016, a file named “reservation_Room_Sharer.dmp” was
created. This file could have been created by the Attacker with a
view to exfiltrating all the data contained in this table at once.18

Following Marriott’s acquisition of Starwood, on 31 December 2016
or 1 January 2017,'!9 additional malware which searched devices for
payment card data, known as “memory-scraping malware”, was
installed on multiple Starwood Devices. Marriott believes, but cannot
be certain, that this action was carried out by a different attacker to
the one responsible for the actions described immediately above.
The memory-scraping malware was executed on 10 January 2017
on eight property management systems, but the malware was not
successful in collecting payment card data from any of the devices.
The eight properties involved were not in the European Union.

Continued Attack, post-acquisition and following the GDPR coming
into force

On 7 September 2018, the Attacker performed a “count” on the
“Guest_Master_profile” table, which would have told the Attacker
how many rows the table contained.

This count triggered an alert on the Guardium system placed on the
database (“the Guardium Alert”). Such alerts were applied to
tables which included card details.2° The other tables mentioned
above did not contain payment card information and were not
protected by Guardium software. Thus, no alarm could be triggered
by the actions of the Attacker.

16 Marriott’s First Representations, page 63.

17 Marriott’s First Representations, page 63.

18 Marriott’s First Representations, page 63.

19 Marriott has also provided the alternative date of 1 January 2017 for this installation (see Marriott’s
Second Representations, page 37).

20 “Guardium” is a data protection software produced by IBM.

20

3.19.

3.20.

3.21.

3.22.

3.23.

3.24.

The Attacker also exported the “Guest_Master_profile” table into a
“dmp” file (as had previously occurred in relation to the other tables
referred to above).

Discovery and reporting of the breach

On 8 September 2018, Accenture, the company managing the
Starwood Guest Reservation Base, contacted Marriott’s IT team
regarding the Guardium alert of the previous day. This was the first
Guardium alert relating to the Attack that Marriott had received
Since its acquisition of Starwood.

On 10 September 2018, the “PP_Master” table was exported to a
“dmp” file on the Starwood system.

Following the Guardium alert, on 9/10 September 2018, Marriott
instigated its Information Security and Privacy Incident Response
Plan. On 12 September 2018, Marriott began to deploy real-time
monitoring and forensic tools on 70,000 legacy Starwood devices.
The purpose of this measure was to monitor the local system and
identify potentially malicious activity in real-time, with findings
reported back to Marriott’s central monitoring server.

On 15/16 September 2018, Marriott identified further unauthorised
activity from 7 July 2018, specifically the use of credentials of
Accenture employees.

On 17 September 2018, the presence of a RAT was identified.
Marriott took action to contain the RAT, by blocking the command-
and-control IP addresses used by the RAT.

In early to mid-October 2018, the Attacker’s use of Mimikatz on a
number of occasions since 2014 was identified, as was the memory-
scraping malware, referred to in paragraph 3.14. On 29 October
2018, Marriott contacted the United States Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

On 13 November 2018, two compressed, encrypted and previously
deleted files were identified. These files were named
“guest_master_profile” and “pp_master”. On 19 November 2018,
the aforementioned files were decrypted, and it was found that they
respectively contained an export of the Guest_Master_Profile table
and the PP_Master table.

21

3.25. On 22 November 2018, Marriott notified the Commissioner of a
personal data breach.

3.26. On 25 November 2018, Marriott discovered that a file named
“Reservation_room_sharer.dmp” had been created on a Starwood
device, and on 26 November 2018, Marriott identified a second file
named “Reservation_room_sharer.dmp” which had been created on
a Starwood device, and _ established that a file mamed
“consumption_roomtype.dmp” had also been created.

3.27. On 30 November 2018, Marriott provided a follow-up report to the
Commissioner regarding further personal data breaches. On the
Same day, Marriott issued a press release about the Attack and
established a dedicated Starwood incident website. Marriott also
began sending email notifications to affected data subjects on 30
November 2018. In the initial email notification to data subjects,
Marriott informed them that a dedicated call centre had been set up
in order to receive complaints. The email notification did not provide
the telephone number for the call centre, however it did contain a
link to the dedicated website, which included the telephone number
of the call centre. Following telephone contact between the
Commissioner’s office and Marriott, the email was updated to
include the telephone number for the call centre, and Marriott sent
the revised version on 9 December 2018.2!

4.PERSONAL DATA INVOLVED IN THE FAILURE

4.1. The Attacker appears to have obtained personal data in both
encrypted and unencrypted forms. The unencrypted information
included:

a. On the “Guest_Master_Profile_table” file: a numerical identifier
to identify the guest, guest name, gender, date of birth,
whether the guest has been identified as a VIP, whether the
guest is amember of the Starwood loyalty programme and their
account information (“SPG"), mailing address, passport country
code, phone number, fax number, email address, and credit
card expiration date.

¢1 Marriott First Representations, page 65.

22

4.2.

4.3.

On the “reservation_room_sharer_table”: a central reservation
confirmation number, a unique numerical room identifier, guest
name, SPG account information, whether the guest has been
identified as a VIP, a separate VIP code, 5.25 million
unencrypted guest passport numbers (935,000 of which were
passports associated with EEA member state records), country
of guest’s passport, arrival time, departure date, address,
phone and fax numbers, email address, whether the guest has
checked in, flight number and airline code, and the total
number of guests in the room.

On the “consumption_room_type_table”: a reservation
confirmation number, the Guest Master profile ID, a unique
numerical room identifier, room type, number of child guests,
number of adult guests, number of cribs used in the room,
number of rollaway beds designed for adults and the number of
rollaway beds designed for children, guest arrival date;

On the “PP_master_table”: the passport number record specific
decryption key. Marriott considers that this would not be
sufficient to decrypt the passport numbers as a master
encryption key is also required, and does not appear to have
been obtained by the attackers.

The encrypted information was as follows:

d.

18.5 million encrypted passport numbers, 4,290,000 of which
were associated with EEA member state records. 22

9.1 million encrypted payment cards, 873,000 of which are
associated with EEA member state records.??

Marriott’s estimate is that 339 million guest records were affected.
Of these, 30.1 million were EEA records,** of which 7 million are
associated with the United Kingdom. All data subjects who were
affected pre-GDPR were also affected by the actions of the Attacker
post-GDPR, as the entire contents of the affected tables were
exported to “dmp” files on the Starwood system each time.

22 Marriott’s First Representations, page 65.
23 Marriott’s First Representations, page 65.
24 Marriott’s First Representations, page 65.

23

However, the specific personal data involved differed between
individual data subjects.

5. PROCEDURE

5.1.

5.2.

5.3.

5.4.

oer

5.6.

This section summarises the procedural steps the Commission has
taken. The Annex to this Penalty Notice provides a more detailed
chronology.

Marriott notified the Commissioner of the Attack on 22 November
2018. In response, the Commissioner commenced an investigation
into the incident. That investigation included various exchanges with
Marriott and considering detailed submissions and evidence.

On 5 July 2019, the Commissioner issued Marriott with a Notice of
Intent to impose a penalty, pursuant to section 155(1) DPA and
Schedule 16 of the DPA (the “NOI”). The proposed penalty was
£99,200,396.00.

Marriott made written representations in response to the NOI on 23
August 2019, which are referred to in this Notice as “Marriott’s
First Representations”. Marriott did not request an opportunity to
make oral submissions.

Between August and October 2019, Marriott and the Commissioner
exchanged correspondence about a number of issues, including (a)
the application of the Commissioner’s Draft Internal Procedure,
which is discussed further below; (b) the application and/or
operation of the Article 60 GDPR consultation process; and (c)
Marriott’s request for further opportunities to make submissions or
representations prior to and during the Article 60 process.

In a letter dated 6 December 2019, the Commissioner:

a. confirmed that she no longer intended to exercise her discretion
to convene the Panel;

b. confirmed that the Draft Internal Procedure would not be taken
into account in setting any penalty imposed on Marriott, having
considered the detailed representations Marriott had made on
this issue in its First Representations. The letter confirmed that
the Commissioner would continue to apply the EU and domestic

24

5.7.

5.8.

5.9.

legislative framework in conjunction with the Regulatory Action
Policy;

c. outlined how the Article 60 consultation process would be
conducted in this case; and

d. agreed to give Marriot the opportunity to make further
representations on the Commissioner's draft decision if Marriott
agreed to extend the six-month period for the issuing of a
penalty notice prescribed in paragraph 2 of Schedule 16 of the
DPA. The Commissioner proposed a new deadline of 31 March
2020.

The Commissioner’s position on these issues was informed, in
particular, by careful consideration of Marriott’s First
Representations. Given the length and _ detail of those
representations and the overall complexity of the case, that
consideration took time and considerable resources. That process
also resulted in changes and clarifications to the form and content
of the draft decision.

The Commissioner was also especially mindful of the fact that she
acted as lead supervisory authority pursuant to Article 60 GDPR in
this case, and that it was therefore important that her investigation
and decision be as comprehensive as possible, since the draft
decision must be submitted for the consideration of other
supervisory authorities pursuant to Article 60(3).

Although not required by law, the Commissioner considered that a
further opportunity for Marriott to make representations was
appropriate, provided that an agreement could be reached on
extending the statutory timetable having regard, in particular, to:
(i) the complexity of the case, (ii) Marriott’s representations, and
(iii) the fact that this is one of the first major decisions made under
the new EU data protection regime.

Following further correspondence, Marriott confirmed on 17
December 2019 its agreement to a statutory extension of time to 31
March 2020. On 20 December 2019, the Commissioner provided
Marriott with a draft decision, and invited it to make further written
representations and to provide any other relevant evidence it wished

the Commissioner to take into account.
25

5.14.

On 31 January 2020, Marriott provided further detailed written
representations on the Commissioner’s draft decision (“Marriott’s
Second Representations”).

On 12 February 2020, the Commissioner wrote to Marriott
requesting further information and documents which arose from her
consideration of the Second Representations.

In the light of the length and complexity of the Second
Representations, on 13 February 2020 the parties agreed a further
statutory extension of time until 1 June 2020.

Between 28 February 2020 and 28 April 2020, Marriott provided the
Commissioner with the information she had requested on 12
February 2020.

On 3 April 2020 the Commissioner invited Marriott to make further
representations specifically in respect of the financial impact on its
business caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Marriott provided a
response to this request on 17 April 2020.

Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 17 April 2020 the
parties agreed a further statutory extension of time for the issuing
of a penalty notice to 30 September 2020.

6. CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE FAILURE: BREACHES

Marriott's failures

6.1.

6.2.

The Commissioner’s conclusion is that between 25 May 2018, when
the GDPR entered into force, and 17 September 2018, Marriott failed
to comply with its obligations under Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32
GDPR. Marriott failed to process personal data in a manner that
ensured appropriate security of the personal data, including
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against
accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical
and organisational measures as required by Article 5(1)(f) and
Article 32 GDPR.

This section describes the specific failures to comply with the GDPR
that the Commissioner has found and responds to Marriott’s First
and Second Representations on the Commissioner’s NOI and draft
decision.

26

The relevant standard

6.3. As set out above, Article 5 GDPR requires that personal data shall
be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful
processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using
appropriate technical or organisational measures. The data
controller, in this case Marriott, is responsible for, and must be able
to demonstrate compliance with, that requirement.

6.4. Article 32 GDPR concerns the security of processing personal data
and, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of
processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for
the rights and freedoms of natural persons, requires a controller to
implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to
ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk. Such measures
may include encryption of personal data and a process for regularly
testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of such technical
and organisational measures.?>

6.5. Not every instance of unauthorised processing or breach of security
will necessarily amount to a breach of Article 5 or Article 32. The
obligation under Article 5 GDPR is to ensure appropriate security;
the obligation under Article 32 is to implement appropriate technical
and organisational measures to ensure an appropriate level of
security, taking account of the state of the art, the costs of
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of
processing, as well as the risk to the rights of data subjects.

6.6. When considering whether there has been a breach of the GDPR and
whether to impose a penalty, the Commissioner must therefore
avoid reasoning purely with the benefit of hindsight. The focus
Should be on the adequacy and appropriateness of the measures
implemented by the data controller, the risks that were known or
could reasonably have been identified or foreseen, and appropriate
measures falling within Article 5 and/or Article 32 GDPR that were
not, but could and should have been, in place.

22 See also Recitals 76, 77 and 83 GDPR.
2f

6.7.

6.8.

6.9.

Having carefully examined the available evidence, including the
evidence and submissions from Marriott and  Marriott’s
Representations, the Commissioner is satisfied that there were
multiple failures by Marriott to put in place appropriate technical or
Organisational measures to protect the personal data being
processed on Marriott’s systems, as required by the GDPR

The NOI and draft decision identified a number of failures by Marriott
to put in place appropriate security measures. Following careful
consideration of the detailed representations received from Marriott,
four principal failures by Marriott are now the subject of this Penalty
Notice, which are outlined below.

Preliminary issue: revised scope of the findings made

In the NOI and the draft decision, concerns were raised in relation
to the gaps which the Attack identified in the application of multi-
factor authentication (“MFA”) within the relevant Starwood
network. The Attacker was able to access the Starwood Cardholder
Data Environment (“CDE”) because MFA was not applied to all
accounts and systems with access to the CDE.

Marriott has explained that:

a. it believed that MFA was in place across the CDE because it had
received assurances from Starwood’s management to this
effect;2° and

b. this belief was corroborated by two Reports on Compliance
(“ROCs”), issued by independent PCI DSS?’ assessors on 29
April 2016 (pre-acquisition) and 23 May 2017 (post-
acquisition), which stated that MFA was in place for anyone
requiring access into the segmented CDE and was enabled on
the jump-server via «2° Marriott placed
particular reliance in its representations on 23 May 2017 report.

Having considered, in particular, Marriott’s Second Representations
in response to the draft decision,?? the Commissioner is satisfied
that Marriott did not breach its obligations under the GDPR by

26 Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.40(a).

¢7 Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI DSS”).

28 Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.40(b).

22 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 3.2 - 3.7 and 3.20-3.24.

28

6.12.

relying upon the ROCs (in particular, the ROC issued in May 2017)
issued by the PCI DSS assessors to conclude that access to the CDE
was protected by MFA (albeit erroneously). The incomplete
implementation of MFA is not therefore the subject of this Penalty
Notice (and consequently was not taken into account in assessing
the appropriate penalty).

The four principal failures

Taking into account the representations made by Marriott,*° the
following four principal failures are the subject of this Penalty Notice.

(1) Insufficient Monitoring of Privileged Accounts

As explained above, the Attacker was able to obtain access to the
CDE by exploiting an unknown gap in the scope of application of
MFA. This failure to secure the ‘outer ring’ of the CDE is not the
subject of this Penalty Notice. Instead, it is of concern that once the
Attacker gained access to the CDE, appropriate and adequate
measures were not in place to allow for the identification of the
breach and to prevent further unauthorised activity (including
further unauthorised processing of personal data). This concern
arises first in respect of Marriott’s failure to put in place appropriate
Ongoing monitoring of user activity, particularly activity by
privileged accounts.

Marriott had itself determined that there was insufficient monitoring
of privileged user accounts

Whilst Marriott did deploy a Security Operations Centre (“SOC”)

en this was insufficient for the reasons given

at para 6.23 below.

 

The National Cyber Security (“NCSC”) guidance, published on 17
November 2018, entitled “10 Steps to Cyber Security: Guidance on
how organisations can protect themselves in cyberspace, including
the 10 steps to cybersecurity”, lists “monitoring” as one of the
relevant steps. It explains the importance of monitoring to detecting

30 See, for example, Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 2.2(b)-(c), 3.1(b), 3.8-3.13, and
3.25-3.29.

 

|

29

Or responding to attacks which have already taken place or
commenced:

Detect attacks: Either originating from outside’ the
organisation or attacks as a result of deliberate or accidental
user activity. Attacks may be directly targeted against
technical infrastructure or against the services being run.
Attacks can also seek to take advantage of legitimate
business services, for example by using stolen credentials to
defraud payment services.

React to attacks: An effective response to an attack depends
upon first being aware than an attack has happened or is
taking place. A swift response is essential to stop the attack,
and to respond and minimise the impact or damage caused.

Account for activity: You should have a_ complete
understanding of how systems, services and information are
being used by users. Failure to monitor systems and their use
could lead to attacks going unnoticed and/or non-compliance
with legal or regulatory requirements.

6.16. The NCSC guidance also explains that monitoring activities should
include, inter alia, the monitoring of network traffic and user
activity. This NCSC guidance builds upon earlier guidance published
by the NCSC which is to similar effect. See, for example, the NCSC
guidance entitled “Introduction to identity and access management”
published in January 20187? which refers to: (a) “basic principles to
follow when designing user access management”, and (b) “basic
architectural good practice when designing and administering access
management systems”. Such basic principles and practices include
“operations and monitoring - the supporting processes and
technology to identify and enable investigation of breaches of policy
or controls”. The guidance explains that:

Given the high value to an attacker of compromising your
identity and access management systems they should be
given priority for security maintenance. This means, amongst
other things, prompt application of security patches across
your estate (or otherwise mitigating security issues),
practicing good user and privileged user management, and

32. https://www.ncsc.qgov.uk/collection/10-steps-to-cyber-security ?curPage=

to-cyber-security/the-10-steps/monitoring

33 https: //www.ncsc.gov.uk/quidance/introduction-identity-and-access-management

 

 

6.17.

applying appropriate protective monitoring. Additionally, we
recommend:

e designing your access control systems to allow for easy
monitoring of account usage and accesses

e being able to tie all user actions in the system to the user that
performed them...”

Both examples of NCSC guidance detail the basic need for multiple
security techniques, processes and technologies in order to secure
systems. Accordingly, Marriott ought to have been aware of the
need to have multiple layers of security in place in order to
adequately protect personal data. Although Marriott had assured
itself that it had MFA in place** (which, as explained above, the
Commissioner accepts that Marriott did), and had certain additional
security measures in place, this was not sufficient. Marriott ought to
have had in place better monitoring of user activity to aid in the
detection of an attack, as an additional layer of security.

A forensic report into the incident, dated 11 April 2019, was
commissioned by Marriott and prepared by Verizon (the “Verizon
Report”). It notes that Marriott had not configured logging in
respect of “access to systems and/or applications within the CDE."*°
Marriott did have the results of the ROCs and its own annual
penetration tests. However, these did not evaluate the
appropriateness of the way in which Marriott monitored (including
through logging) the Starwood system or the configurations used
for any such monitoring (including logging). Logging configurations
are not within the scope of these tests. This is not a criticism of the
ROCs or the penetration tests themselves. Rather it reflects the fact
that Marriott ought to have taken steps to implement measures
which would identify vulnerabilities which the ROCs and penetration
tests would not identify. Such steps would include the
implementation of effective monitoring (including logging) and
alerts as part of Marriott’s wider security measures. This is the gap
identified by the Verizon Report.

In this case, appropriate monitoring would have included the
appropriate logging of user activity, especially in relation to
privileged users. The logging of user activity once within the CDE, in

34 Contrary to, for example, para 3.6 of Marriott’s Second Representations.
35 Verizon Report, page 18.

31

6.20.

6.21.

6.22.

addition to the logging done by the Guardium software, would have
aided in the detection of unusual account activity (such as where, in
this case, the Attacker regularly utilised legitimate accounts to
perform unauthorised user activity within the CDE). Marriott’s failure
to log user activity in this way was inconsistent with its obligations
under the GDPR.

Marriott states that “no amount of logging would necessarily have
identified an attacker unless the attacker operated from an identified
suspicious IP address, which is not the case in this matter.”*° It is
right to say that no security measure “would necessarily” work,
there being no guarantee that any security measure is wholly
effective. It is also true that it is harder to detect an attacker who is
not operating from a suspicious IP address. However, this is
precisely why the monitoring of legitimate user accounts (including
through logging) within the network for unusual activity is vital. This
is recognised by the NCSC, which states in relation to monitoring:
“these solutions should provide both signature-based capabilities to
detect Known attacks, and heuristic capabilities to detect unusual
system behaviour".?’

(2) Insufficient Monitoring of Databases

In addition to the insufficient monitoring of user accounts and the
user activity linked to those accounts, Marriott failed to adequately
monitor the databases within the CDE. In this respect, the
Commissioner is concerned by the following three failures: (a)
deficiencies in Marriott’s setup of security alerts on databases within
the CDE; (b) the failure to aggregate logs; and (c) the failure to log
actions taken on the CDE system, such as the creation of files and
the exporting of entire database tables.

Marriott deployed IBM Guardium to monitor activity on the database
within the CDE. As configured by Marriott, IBM Guardium had two
functions. First, it logged activity (such as efforts to create, read,
update, or delete data within a database). Secondly, it issued alerts
in certain circumstances. The problems with the approach adopted
are as follows.

°° Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.39.
37 NCSC “10 Steps to Cyber Security” Guidance, dated 17 November 2018:

 

32

6.23.

6.24.

6.25.

With respect to logging, there were two main problems:

a. First, whilst Marriott had a security incident event management
system (“SIEM”) and a SOC to collect the logs being generated
by the system, Marriott did not ensure sufficient logging of key
activities such as user activity or actions taken on a database.
The insufficient logging rendered the SIEM and SOC ineffective.
Marriott also insufficiently logged in other areas of its network,
such as firewall and access logs.

b. Second, Marriott did not engage in’ server logging of the
creation of files (or alternatively it did not use the IBM
Guardium software in a similar way), which allowed the
Attacker to export entire databases to ‘dmp’ files undetected.
Such logging is likely to have been feasible for Marriott as such
mass export of data does not regularly occur within the normal
course of business so as to generate an unhelpful number of
false-positives. This form of logging on the system, and the
evaluation of the created logs, could have enabled Marriott to
detect unexpected activity within the CDE.

In response to the concerns raised, Marriott has referred to its use
of Proventa and McAfee’s IntruShield (two systems which generate
and aggregate logs).7° These are not, however, sufficient to address
the risks faced by the Starwood network. McAfee’s Intrushield aids
in the detection of zero-day, DoS attacks, spyware, malware,
botnets and VoIP threats, while Proventia operated as an intrusion
detection system. Like Proventa, IntruShield does not address the
shortcomings identified above, namely the failure to monitor
database activity and user actions on network devices.

Marriott stated in its First Representations, and the Commissioner
agrees, that such logging would not have prevented the Attack in of
itself, but “merely informs a response once the system operator Is
aware of the malicious activity”.*? However, regular and close
monitoring and evaluation of logs can assist in the early detection
of attacks, their mitigation, and the prevention of future attacks.
That Marriott did not detect the Attack until alerted by Guardium is

38 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.40.
3° Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.61.

33

6.26.

6.27.

6.28.

6.29.

indicative of Marriott failing regularly to test, assess, and evaluate
the effectiveness of its security measures.

With respect to the Guardium alerts, the problem was that the
circumstances in which IBM Guardium would issue alerts were
limited in a way which undermined its ability to detect unauthorised
activity within the databases.

In particular, alerts were only placed on tables that contained
payment card information, and only specific queries (where table
names were directly referenced, such as in a count) triggered
warnings in the system. Although the database as a whole did have
some protection from Guardium,*® the known actions of the
Attacker prior to 7 September 2018 did not meet the conditions for
the triggering of an alert.*4 Marriott has explained that specific
alerting rules and tables were chosen in order to reduce false-
positives. However, this explanation is insufficient to justify an
approach where only tables including payment card data were
placed within the scope of Guardium rules. Marriott’s focus on
payment card information illustrates a failure to implement
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure an
appropriate level of overall security for all other personal data.

A risk-based approach was required in this case (as acknowledged
in para 1.45 of Marriott's First Representations). Payment card data
is likely to be the highest risk category, and the tables containing
payment card data could therefore warrant higher security than
other tables depending on the sensitivity of the other data held.
However, while a risk-based approach may require payment card
data to have additional security alerts, this does not justify a
complete lack of alerts on tables containing other personal data.
Moreover, the other data held may vary in its sensitivity, requiring
different security measures to be applied to the tables/relevant
processing.

Marriott stated that it reasonably assumed, based upon the PCI DSS
testing results, that the Guardium alerts in respect of the CDE were
appropriately configured.** However, the PCI DSS tests concerned

40 Namely in terms of detecting unauthorised access based on IPs or failed login attempts, which the
Attacker in this incident bypassed through compromised user credentials.

41 As confirmed by Marriott in its correspondence dated 20 December 2018, page 6.

42 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 1.43-44.

34

6.30.

6.31.

6.32.

6.33.

the perimeter defences against an attack rather than monitoring
systems concerned with the detection of an attacker who had
already penetrated the CDE. The tests did not assess the
appropriateness of the discriminatory application of the alerts across
the CDE segment, nor what this meant for the security of categories
of personal data stored in tables which did not contain payment card
information. They do not, therefore, provide the reasonable
assurance which Marriott claims.

Finally, Marriott suggested that because it believed MFA was
implemented across the CDE, this rendered its reliance on that
authentication tool and the Guardium alerts as _ configured
reasonable and therefore in compliance with Articles 5(1)(f) and 32
GDPR. This is not accepted, monitoring (including logging) of the
types discussed in paras 6.13 to 6.29 above are standard security
measures. Control of access through MFA does not displace the need
for adequate monitoring (including logging) of activities that assist
in detecting a breach once it is in train (see paras 6.15-6.17 above).

(3) Control of critical systems

As discussed at paragraphs 6.13-6.30 above, Marriott failed to
ensure that the actions taken on its systems were appropriately
monitored. In addition to the use of monitoring and security alerts,
it would have been appropriate for Marriott to implement a form of
server hardening as a preventative measure, which could have
prevented the Attacker from gaining access to administrator
accounts and performing reconnaissance before traversing across a
network.

In particular, the implementation of whitelisting is one way in which
Marriott could have performed server hardening. Whitelisting is a
form of programming which only allows certain users or IP addresses
to access certain systems or software, as required for their specific
role. It is important in reducing attack surfaces and reducing the risk
of attackers being able to traverse through a network after gaining
entry to a single user account.

Whitelisting should be deployed where appropriate on critical
systems, and those systems which have access to large amounts of
personal data. The NCSC Guidance states that: “you should develop
a Strategy to remove or disable unnecessary functionality from

35

systems.”*? Whitelisting is also described in NCSC Cyber Essentials
guidance as a defence against malware.** This supports advice given
in earlier guidance by NIST. In October 2015 NIST published a guide
to whitelisting which shows how whitelisting can be utilised to
prevent unauthorised software from being installed on a device.*°
In this incident, whitelisting could have aided in halting the
reconnaissance and privilege escalation stage of the Attack.

6.34. There are many forms of whitelisting. Binary software whitelisting is
a form of access control where only authorised software and scripts
can be installed on a given system or user areas. For example, only
allowing pre-approved software such as Microsoft Word and Outlook
to be installed on work laptops. This can be distinguished from other
forms of whitelisting, such as the process by which only authorised
IP addresses can gain access to network resources.*© Whilst it is not
possible to list the devices in relation to which whitelisting could
have been appropriate, at a minimum whitelisting would be
expected on: (a) devices which could be remotely accessed; (b)
devices which store large amounts or, or sensitive categories of,
personal data; (c) any other systems which Marriott regards as
‘critical’ to their network operations; (d) any POS terminals at a
property level; and any other devices which process payment card
transactions.*” The implementation of binary software whitelisting
would — if correctly implemented - have prevented the installation
and execution of a RAT. While it is true that the RAT was installed
and executed on the system both pre-acquisition and pre-GDPR, and
was therefore not attributable to Marriott, the continued absence of
whitelisting post-GDPR left the systems for which Marriott was
responsible vulnerable to further RAT installations and executions.

6.35. Marriott stated in its First Representations that binary software
whitelisting was rarely implemented by companies at the time of the

See https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/10-steps-to-cyber-security/the-10-steps

vs Nees Cyber Essentials Guidance: Requirements for IT infrastructure (dated April 2020):

h , iles/Cyb .pdf (pages 10-
11, under the heading “Malware Protection”). This language was also included in the now archived
version of this guidance, which dated from January 2015:

https ://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20150605225501/https://www.gov.uk/government

 

blications/10-steps-to-cyber-security-advice-sheets/10-steps-secure-configquration--11

 

49 https://nvipubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-167.pdf (dated October
2015). See, in particular, section 2.1 on page 2.
46 See para 1.52 of Marriott’s First Representations.
4”“Protecting Point of Sale Devices from Targeted Attacks” (Microsoft), dated 1 April 2014.
https: //download.microsoft.com/documents/en-us/Protecting_Point_of_Sale_Devices-
April_2014.pdf. See, in particular, page 5.

36

incident, because it places a heavy burden on IT systems.‘
However, binary software whitelisting was a well-recognised and
established security practice for some time before the GDPR came
into force, and certainly by that date. The NCSC Guidance lists
whitelisting (prevent unknown software from being able to run or
install itself...“) as a “Cyber Essential”. That guidance was published
in October 2015, and therefore pre-dates the GDPR.*? In addition,
there is guidance published by the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (“NIST”), which recognises whitelisting as a better
option than anti-malware.°° The NIST Guidance was published in
2015, and therefore significantly pre-dates the implementation of
the GDPR.

6.36. Marriott also stated in its First Representations that binary software
whitelisting could be circumvented by attackers ‘side loading’ RATs
by using legitimate executable code.°! Whitelisting, like all security
measures, cannot be entirely resistant to attack. However, where
side-loading did take place in the Attack, that appears to have been
because Marriott’s systems vaguely or improperly specified a
dynamic-link library (DLL) which allowed such side-loading to take
place.°* Whilst Marriott is right to suggest that these are risks which
cannot be fully eliminated from any third-party software,>? this only
highlights the fact that Marriott ought to have carried out regular
audits, updates of software and restricted file and directory
permissions. The existence of outdated/obsolete software is also an
issue noted in both the 2017 and 2018 PCI DSS Reports, and these
could have been mitigated by properly reacting to issues discovered
in the penetration tests.

6.37. In any event, no single security measure can fully protect a system
against attack or compromise. It would have been appropriate for
Marriott to have implemented a ‘defence in depth’ strategy, of which
whitelisting could play an important role, in order to protect their
systems against attack and monitor activity on their network in

48 Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.53.

49 See: https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/reducing-your-exposure-to-cyber-attack

20 ~See: https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/information/reducing-your-exposure-to-cyber-attack and the
reference to “whitelisting and execution control — prevent unknown software from being able to run
or install itself.”

>! Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.53.

°¢ See: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1073/ for an explanation of the vulnerabilities that
allow side loading to take place.

°3 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.31.

 

3/

6.38.

6.39.

6.40.

6.41.

order to promptly mitigate any unauthorised or malicious actions
that managed to bypass their security controls.

The measures discussed above are readily available and mature
solutions (i.e. solutions that have been known about in the industry
for a long period of time), which are appropriate and could have
been implemented by Marriott, to the extent necessary, without
entailing excessive cost or technical difficulties. However, it is only
suggested that whitelisting (or equivalent server hardening
measures which would limit the functionality of systems to only that
which is required of them) could be appropriately deployed on (a)
critical systems which attackers may target whilst looking to access
other, sensitive areas of the network, or (b) systems which could
access other (separate) systems containing personal data.
Therefore, it would be appropriate to implement a server hardening
measure across devices with access to the CDE, the CDE
environment itself and any other network devices that could access
either large quantities or sensitive categories of personal data.

(4) Encryption

Payment card data and, in some cases, passport numbers, were
encrypted by Marriott using AES-128, an industry standard
encryption algorithm. Oracle databases (the Starwood reservation
database included tables stored in an Oracle database) provided the
functionality to encrypt table entries in this way, and it was Marriot’s
responsibility to ensure this was configured correctly.

However, in keeping with Marriott’s focus on PCI DSS compliance,
encryption was not applied to other categories of personal data. The
Commissioner is particularly concerned that not all passport
numbers were encrypted.

In its First and Second Representations, Marriott stated that it had
adopted a mature and risk-based approach to cyber security by
targeting its security efforts on the tables containing cardholder
information.°* In support of its position, Marriott relied upon a
selective quotation from the NCSC Guidance in its written

°4 Marriott’s Representations, para 1.27 and 1.63, see also para 3.45 of Marriott’s Second
Representations.

38

submissions. However, the Commissioner notes that the full quote
provides as follows:

In some scenarios, the use of encryption to protect bulk data
should be the norm. For example, where data is transmitted
over the internet, stored on a laptop, or stored on removable
media. However, encryption relies on good key management,
and in some scenarios it is challenging to engineer a solution
which makes meaningful use of encryption to protect personal
data. This is sometimes the case in systems which are always
online, where data needs to be available to query. In these
scenarios, your systems architects and designers will
need to think carefully about how encryption can be used
in a meaningful way.»

6.42. However, Marriott has not provided any risk assessments which

6.43.

>> See:

demonstrate the evaluative judgement it arrived at and the rationale
for its approach to the encryption of personal data. On the contrary,
Marriott has taken an inconsistent approach by encrypting some but
not all passport numbers. In addition, while it may be true that
cardholder information is of higher risk than other categories of
personal data, this does not vitiate the risk to other categories of
personal data. Thus, while the NCSC guidance quoted above, does
not say that Marriott is required to implement encryption across all
personal data, it does require Marriott to explain why it chose to
selectively encrypt data.°© Even if Marriott reasonably believed that
the CDE was protected by MFA, it was aware - or ought to have
been aware - that no system is fully secure.?’

Marriott, in its First Representations, also claimed that it would have
been impractical for it to have encrypted any more personal data
than it did.-"> However a number of methods exist to facilitate the
identification of the user to which a piece of data refers, so that
decryption of personal data can take place quickly and when
necessary. One method is through the use of a unique identifier
(such as an UUID), which can aid in querying and decrypting
individual pieces of data associated with individual customers where
required in almost real-time. There are also Hardware Security

https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/protecting-bulk-personal-data (emphasis added).

°6 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.46(c).
>’ Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.46(b).
°8 Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.27(b).

39

Modules which Marriott could have utilised, encrypting data in near
real time at its source and decrypting it at its destination.

6.44. In addition, the level of security that the encryption could have
achieved was compromised within the Starwood guest reservation
database by a script, developed by Starwood, which allowed for
AES-128 encrypted entries in a database table to be decrypted. a

ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee

6.45, re
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee

6.46, re
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee
ee

6.47,
ee
ee

°° Marriott’s First Representations, paragraph 1.64. As to paragraph 1.64(c), while the Commissioner
agrees that it is unlikely that the attacker did run the script millions of times, if the attacker so
wished, this could have been achieved in very little time as it could be run as an automated process.
60 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.46(a).

4

©

 

Marriott’s wider arguments

6.48.

In addition to the arguments referred to above, Marriott’s
Representations raised a number of more general legal and/or
factual arguments. This section addresses the following submissions
made by Marriott:

a)

Oo

ae

©

First, that the Commissioner had assessed the issue of breach
without reference to “any clear standards”,°1 reasoned with the
benefit of hindsight and regarded the fact that the Attack was
successful as an indicator that the security measures were
inappropriate.°* Marriott claims that the Commissioner has
applied an “impossibly high standard of care”.°?

Second, that the Commissioner failed to apply a _ holistic
approach.

Third, that the Commissioner impermissibly relied upon
Marriott’s pre-GDPR conduct, and incorrectly concluded on a
provisional basis that Marriott had failed to carry out sufficient
and appropriate due diligence.©

Fourth, that the Commissioner erred in referring to Article 25
GDPR in the NOI.°®

Fifth, that the Commissioner erred in reaching the provisional
view in the NOI that Marriott had breached the notification
requirement under Article 33 of the GDPR.°

61 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 1.3-1.7.

62 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 1.8-1.12. See, to similar effect, Marriott’s Second
Representations, Executive Summary, para 3, and para 3.1(b), and paras 3.15-3.18.

63 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 1; para 1.2, see also Marriott’s Second
Representations, paras 3.14-3.18.

64 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, paras land 5, and paras 1.13-1.15; and
Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.2(c).

65 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, paras 3-4, paras 1.18-1.20 and 1.29-1.37.
66 Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.21.

67 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 7, and paras 2.1-2.10 and 2.16.

41

6.49.

f. Sixth, that the Commissioner was wrong provisionally to find
in the NOI that Marriott’s notification to data subjects breached
Article 34 of the GDPR.®®

In its First and Second Representations, Marriott also advanced a
number of points in relation to: (a) the Commissioner’s approach to
determining whether to impose a penalty; and (b) her methodology
in calculating the proposed penalty as set out in the Notice of Intent
and the draft decision. These arguments are addressed in Section 7
below.

(1) The correct approach/standard

Marriott claims that: (a) the Commissioner’s factual findings were
inaccurate; and/or (b) the Commissioner cannot maintain the
conclusion that appropriate measures were available that Marriott
failed to take to remove and/or mitigate the risk of an attack of the
kind which occurred in this case because she had applied the
incorrect standard or approach.°?

In the analysis set out above, the Commissioner has clarified certain
factual findings made in the Notice of Intent in the light of the
Submissions made by Marriott in both its First and Second
Representations, including by, in particular, clarifying her position in
respect of the incomplete application of MFA.

Further, paragraphs 6.3-6.8 above, provide an accurate summary
of the position on the relevant standard and set out the
Commissioner’s response to Marriott’s argument that she applied an
incorrect, unduly high, inappropriate or unclear standard in the NOI
and/or draft penalty notice. The analysis set out in Section 6 above
clearly explains the basis for the finding that Marriott failed to put in
place appropriate security arrangements as required by the GDPR
by reference to the specific facts of this case. Contrary to the claims
made in Marriott’s First Representations, the Commissioner has not
applied a one-size-fits-all approach to what measures are
appropriate to secure different types of personal data.”°

68 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 2.11-2.15 and 2.16.

69 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 1.3—1.5 and 1.39-1.70; and Marriott’s Second
Representations, Executive Summary, para 3.

70 Contrary to, in particular, paras 1.16-1.17 of Marriott’s First Representations.

42

6.53. As the Commissioner has set out above, and as she set out in the
NOI, there were a number of appropriate measure(s) available to
Marriott that an organisation of its scale would be expected to take
to secure its data operations. Contrary to the claims made by
Marriott, this Penalty Notice (nor the NOI/draft decision) do not
proceed on the basis that simply because the Starwood system was
the victim of the Attack, it follows that Marriott breached the
GDPR.’? The reasoning supporting this Penalty Notice, and the NOI
and draft decision, does not adopt such a simplistic approach.

6.54. For essentially the same _ reasons, contrary to Marriott’s
submissions,’* the Commissioner’s findings do not involve applying
the benefit of hindsight in an improper manner, or at all (as already
explained above). The Commissioner is satisfied that there were four
distinct weaknesses in Marriott’s system each of which Marriott
ought to have identified and remedied, using one of the range of
options available to Marriott (as discussed above). The
Commissioner does not rely on the ‘success’ of the Attack as
evidence that a breach of the GDPR definitely occurred. Instead, the
Attacker’s ability to exploit deficiencies in Marriott’s security
measures, for which remedies were available, discloses wider
failures to put appropriate measures in place. In particular, the
failure to encrypt all passport numbers was inadequate. There was
also a failure to place Guardium alerts on tables other than those
which contained payment information, thereby allowing the attack
to go on undetected for a longer period.

6.55. At para 1.12 of its First Representations, Marriott also claims that
there is no basis for the suggestion that, under the GDPR, it ought
to have identified the type of Attack which is the subject of this
Notice, or carried out any further improvements on the Starwood
systems, because the system was the “victim of a sophisticated
attacker, which adopted a multi-vectored approach to its attack and
was able to circumvent numerous protections that were in place”.
However, the sophistication or specific vector of the attack is not the
relevant focus. A controller has to implement appropriate measures
to ensure the security of its systems. The measures mentioned
above could have been implemented using standard industry tools,
and could have prevented, detected and/or mitigated the impact of

/1 Marriott’s First Representations, §§1.8-1.9.
72 See, in particular, Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 3.15-3.18.

43

the Attack. What the Attack disclosed was the failure by Marriott to
put in place appropriate security measures to address attacks of this
kind and/or other identifiable risks to the system.

Furthermore, Marriott was wrong to state’? that the fact that the
relevant Starwood IT system was due to be retired shortly means
that it was not necessary to put in place the types of appropriate
measures identified above in order to comply with Articles 5(1)(f)
and/or 32 GDPR.

In particular, Marriott relies on the fact that it originally intended to
decommission the Starwood system in the first quarter of 2018 in
response to the concerns raised about its security measures. It is
important to note that the intended decommissioning was due to
take place approximately a year and half after the acquisition of
Starwood, a long period of time during which data continued to be
processed on the system. In fact, the intended decommissioning did
not take place in the first quarter of 2018; the timetable was altered
such that it was only to be achieved by the end of 2018. Whilst the
Commissioner accepts that Marriott could not have known about the
delay to the decommissioning timetable at the outset,’* in early
2018 Marriott was aware that the GDPR was coming into force and
that it would be continuing to process data within the Starwood
network for a number of months after that. During this period,
appropriate monitoring (including logging), and alerting tools could
have been implemented relatively quickly in order to secure the
systems until their decommissioning at the end of 2018.

Many of the measures identified in the discussion of the 4 principal
errors above could have been easily implemented as part of the
security improvements which Marriott was already making over this
period. With regards to logging, the appropriate changes to what
was in fact being logged could have been made as part of Marriott’s
SIEM and SOC projects. No additional steps as part of the “general
IT lifecycle process” would have been required.’? Similarly, changes
to the Guardium alert settings could have been made relatively
quickly and easily when IBM Guardium was deployed. The
appropriate server hardening measures could have _ been

73 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.32-3.36.
74 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 3.35-3.36.
” Marriott’s Second Representations, para 3.38.

44

6.60.

6.61.

implemented within 6-12 months (depending on which measures
Marriott selected and how it chose to implement them).

The fact that an IT system is due to be retired shortly does not
disapply the GDPR to the data being processed through that system.
Marriott was still obliged to decide what appropriate measures
Should be in place in the light of the continued use of the system.
While the fact that a system is to be decommissioned may be a
relevant factor in determining what measures would be appropriate
in a given case, this ultimately does not remove the basic obligation
to put in place security measures appropriate to the risk posed by
the continued processing. This may mitigate against, for example, a
requirement that a controller, even one of the size and scale of
Marriott, put in place expensive, state-of-the-art measures, where
the system is to be decommissioned in the near future. However,
where other appropriate measures are available without entailing
disproportionate cost or delay, they should be put in place if they
are required to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risks
posed by continued processing. As explained above, the specific
measures identified in the discussion of the four principal errors
above are all ones which could have been put in place in a short
amount of time, and which would not have entailed excessive cost.

(2) A holistic approach

The Commissioner has had regard to Marriott’s detailed submissions
on the security measures it had in place generally, and those it
implemented after its limited due diligence on the Starwood
systems.’© However, the investigation has identified a number of
appropriate measures or steps that should have been taken by
Marriott to address the identified security risks within its system.
The Attack, and/or other attacks which could have occurred as a
result of the deficiencies in Marriott’s systems, identified above,
mean that, even judged holistically, Marriott’s technical and
organisational data security arrangements cannot be regarded as
sufficient or appropriate.

The Commissioner has also considered Marriott’s submissions about
the improvements made to Starwood’s systems post-acquisition,
which are said to show that it engaged in appropriate due

76 See, in particular, para 1.35 and paras 1.39-1.70 of Marriott’s First Representations.

45

6.62.

6.63.

6.64.

diligence.’” However, it is notable that none of those steps identified
the relevant, easily detectable, deficiencies in Marriott’s security,
which could have been easily addressed but were exploited during
the Attack. Marriott’s submissions in this regard focus on
improvements it made to its own systems, and which the Starwood
systems / data would benefit from when they were migrated to its
network (paras 1.35(b)-(c) of Marriott’s First Representations). But
this does not meet the concern that Marriott continued to use the
Starwood system without remedying the clear deficiencies in its
security arrangements. It is clear from Marriott’s Representations’®
that only limited changes were made to the Starwood system
because it was expected to be decommissioned sometime in the
future. It is apparent that these changes were not sufficient to
address the failings described above which should have been
addressed given the ongoing processing that was to take place prior
to decommissioning.

(3) Pre-GDPR conduct and due diligence

Marriott is wrong to argue that the NOI relied upon Marriott’s failure
to appropriately secure its systems and the personal data stored on
them, prior to the period covered by the GDPR. The fact that no such
reliance was placed on the pre-GDPR conduct was made clear in the
NOI itself.7?

Marriott’s argument in this regard relies on the claim that any duty
to undertake a due diligence process is one which would have to be
discharged prior to or shortly after acquisition. Marriott submitted
that it is not tenable to proceed on the basis that acquisition due
diligence is a “seemingly endless” process.®°

While the Commissioner accepts that the acquisition of a company /
data processing operations are a trigger for a controller to carry out
due diligence, either immediately prior to acquisition or shortly
thereafter, this is not the only trigger point for such activity. The
need for a controller to conduct due diligence in respect of its data
operations is not time-limited or a ‘one-off’ requirement. In

77 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 1.15 and 1.30-1.35.

78 See paras 1.34 and 1.35(d) of Marriott’s First Representations and paras 3.35-3.36 of Marriott’s
Second Representations. See also para 6.56 above.

72 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 2.4-2.10; see also Marriott’s First Representations, para

1.20.

80 Marriott’s First Representations, para 1.20(a) and (b).

46

6.65.

6.66.

6.67.

6.68.

particular, the coming into effect of the GDPR was, for a global
business like Marriott, a highly relevant factor.

Controllers such as Marriott would have been aware for some time
that the GDPR was going to come into effect on 25 May 2018. It was
incumbent on such controllers to ensure that their data processing
complied with the provisions of EU law from that date. However,
after May 2018 Marriott continued to process personal data using a
system that was deficient in a number of respects, and those
deficiencies only came to light following the discovery of the Attack
some months later.

Given Marriott’s ongoing duty to ensure that the systems it had
acquired from Starwood were GDPR compliant, it is no answer to
claim that certain due diligence steps were, or only needed to be,
taken in the period immediately after acquisition. Controllers cannot
process personal data without appropriate security measures being
in place on the basis that the system was deficient prior to May 2018
and has not been remedied. Even if adequate due diligence had been
undertaken at the point of acquisition, that would not have removed
Marriott’s obligation to ensure, on a continuing basis, that it
complied with the GDPR, once that Regulation came into force.

Marriott recognises this, but relies upon inter alia its PCI DSS
assessment process as the means by which this continuing
obligation was discharged.®! However, PCI DSS assessments are
limited in their ability to detect and mitigate vulnerabilities within a
network, for the reasons given at paragraph 6.29 above. Rather,
adequate and appropriate due diligence would have included
reviewing the adequacy of the monitoring (including logging)
systems within the network.

Thus, for the avoidance of any doubt, this decision relates solely to
Marriott’s failures after 25 May 2018. The Commissioner has not
issued a decision under the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA
1998”), despite the historic, pre-2018 nature of the concerns in
respect of the Starwood system.

81 Marriott’s Second Representations, page 47.

47

(4) Article 25

6.69.

The Commissioner acknowledges that the NOI, at para 58, included
an erroneous reference to Article 25 GDPR. This was a typographical
error. The penalty figure set out in the NOI did not take into account
any breach of Article 25.

(5) Article 33

6.70.

6.71.

6.72.

6.73.

82 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 2.1
83 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 2.4

At the NOI stage, a provisional finding of breach of Article 33 GDPR
was proposed. However, this finding no longer forms part of the
decision against Marriott.

In reaching this decision, the Commissioner did consider Marriott’s
claims that (i) the Commissioner failed to identify the date on which
Marriott became aware of the breach;® and (ii) the Commissioner
misapplied the GDPR rules on when a controller must be taken to be
aware of a personal data breach.®

However, it is not accepted that the NOI failed to identify the date
on which Marriott became aware of the breach for the purposes of
Article 33 GDPR. The Commissioner identified 8 September 2018 as
the relevant date at para 52 of the NOI: Marriott had been aware
of unauthorised access to the Starwood systems since the Guardium
alert on 8 September 2018... It would have been reasonable at that
point for Marriott to conclude that personal data was likely to have
been accessed by an unauthorised party.” The reference to the
“dmp” files in para 53 of the NOI cannot reasonably be read as
referring to the identification of the dmp files on 13 November
2018.** Rather, this was a reference to the fact that on 7 September
2018 the Attacker exported the “Guest_Master_Profile” table - a
table that Marriott knew to contain personal data — into a “dmp’” file.
Marriott was alerted to the presence of the Attacker by Accenture
on 8 September 2018, the day after this took place.

Marriott was also incorrect to submit that the GDPR requires a data
controller to be reasonably certain that a personal data breach has
occurred before notifying the Commissioner. Rather, a data
controller must be able reasonably to conclude that it is likely a

3.
1

-2,
-2.10.

84 Marriott’s First Representations, para 2.1.

48

6.74.

6.75.

personal data breach has occurred to trigger the notification
requirement under Article 33.

Nevertheless, the Commissioner took into account, in particular,
Marriott’s explanation that a count can be performed on a database
without any of the personal data held on that database being
accessed, and that Marriott’s position is that it was unaware of the
export of the “Guest_Master_Profile” table into a “dmp” file (which
took place on 7 September 2018) until 13 November 2018. ® The
Commissioner has also taken into account Marriott’s submission that
the “Guest_Master_Profile” contained non-personal data, and
therefore it was only with decryption of that file on 19 November
2018 that it became aware of the personal data breach.

Thus, in this particular case, and in the light of Marriott’s
Representations, the Commissioner has decided not to make a
finding that Marriott breached Article 33 GDPR.

(6) Article 34

6.76.

6.77.

6.78.

The NOI contained a provisional finding of a breach of Article 34
GDPR. Marriott submitted detailed submissions in response to that
proposal.®°

The Commissioner recognises that Marriott established a dedicated
website regarding the breach, and issued a press release which was
widely-reported.®” Marriott claims in its Representations that a
dedicated website and press release would have been sufficient for
it to have discharged its obligations under Article 34.°° This is
incorrect.

Article 34(1) requires Marriott to “communicate the personal data
breach to the data subject” (emphasis added). Where this would
involve “disproportionate effort", Marriott may issue a_ public
communication or similar measure (Article 34(3)(c)). Sending an
email to data subjects whose current email addresses are stored on
Marriott’s systems is not, on any view, a disproportionate measure.
It is a routine commercial activity. This is supported by the fact that
Marriott did inform the data subjects, via email, very soon after it

85 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 2.4-2.10.
86 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 2.11-2.16.
87 Marriott’s First Representations, para 2.12.

88 Marriott’s First Representations, para 2.14.

49

6.79.

6.80.

6.81.

identified the breach. The Commissioner accepts that some data
subjects will not have been contactable in that way; the most
obvious example being individuals who had changed their contact
details. In these cases, it may have involved a disproportionate
effort to track those individuals down in order to communicate the
breach and, for such individuals, Marriott will have discharged its
duty by way of its press release and dedicated website. However,
Marriott is not entitled to rely upon communications which are
addressed to the world at large (such as its press release and
website) as discharging its duties under Article 34(1) in relation to
all data subjects.

The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to consider Marriott’s
direct communications (including emails) with the affected data
Subjects as the means by which Marriott sought to satisfy its
obligations under Article 34 GDPR.

The email sent by Marriot referred to a “dedicated call centre”, this
being a specific telephone line set up for affected data subjects to
contact for further information, but it did not include the telephone
number. The email, having communicated the “name” of the contact
point, did not communicate the “contact details” of the point where
more information could be obtained. While plainly not deliberate,
these omissions to some extent undermined the effectiveness of the
notification.

The Commissioner has taken into account the fact that the email
contained a link to the dedicated website, which in turn provided the
telephone number for the dedicated call centre,®? although the email
itself did not. On this occasion, and in light of the information that
Marriott did in fact provide to affected data subjects, this Penalty
Notice does not include any finding that Marriott breached Article 34
GDPR.

7.REASONS FOR IMPOSING A PENALTY & CALCULATION
OF THE APPROPRIATE AMOUNT

7.1.

For the reasons set out above, the Commissioner’s view is that
Marriott has failed to comply with Articles 5(1)(f) and 32 GDPR.
These failures fall within the scope of section 149(2) and 155(1)(a)

8° Marriott’s First Representations, para 2.14(a).

50

7.2.

DPA. For the reasons explained below, the Commissioner has
decided that it is appropriate to impose a penalty in the light of the
infringements she has identified.

In deciding to impose a penalty, and calculating the appropriate
amount, the Commissioner has had regard to the matters listed in
Articles 83(1) and (2) GDPR and has applied the five-step approach
set out in her RAP.

The imposition of a penalty is appropriate in this case

7.3.

7.4.

7.5.

7.6.

Both the RAP and Article 83 GDPR provide guidance as to the
circumstances in which it is appropriate to impose an administrative
fine or penalty for breaches of the obligations imposed by the GDPR.

Article 83(2) GDPR lists a number of factors that must be taken into
account. These are each discussed in detail below in determining the
appropriate level of fine, in accordance with the steps outlined in the
RAP. The points made below are also relied upon in justifying the
Commissioner’s decision to impose a penalty, in the light of the
findings of infringement set out above.

The RAP provides guidance on when the Commissioner will deem a
penalty to be appropriate.”° In particular, the RAP explains that a
penalty is more likely to be imposed where, inter alia, (a) a number
of individuals have been affected; (b) there has been a degree of
damage or harm (which may _ include’ distress and/or
embarrassment); and (c) there has been a failure to apply
reasonable measures (including relating to privacy by design) to
mitigate any breach (or the possibility of it).

As discussed in more detail below, each of those features is present
in this case. Taking together the findings made above about the
nature of the infringements, their likely impact, and the fact that
Marriott failed to comply with its GDPR_ obligations, the
Commissioner considers it appropriate to apply an effective,
dissuasive and proportionate penalty, reflecting the seriousness of
the breaches which have occurred.

°0 Pages 24-25, see para 2.37 above.

51

Calculation of the appropriate penalty

7.7.

7.8.

7.9.

Step 1: an ‘initial element’ removing any financial gain from the
breach?

Marriott did not gain any financial benefit, or avoid any losses,
directly or indirectly as a result of the breach. The Commissioner
has not, therefore, added an initial element at this stage.

Step 2: Adding in an element to censure the breach based on its
scale and severity, taking into account the considerations identified
at sections 155(2)-(4) DPA

Sections 155(2)-(4) DPA refer to and reproduce the matters listed
in Articles 83(1) and 83(2).

The nature, gravity and duration of the failure (Article

83(2)(a))

Nature and gravity of the failures: The nature of the failures is
of significant concern. As set out above, there were multiple
measures that Marriott could have put in place that would have
allowed for the detection of or mitigated the Attack insofar as it
continued after 25 May 2018.°* What the Attack shows is that during
the relevant period Marriott was processing data on a system that
had multiple security failings that were exploited by the Attacker
and could have been exploited by others.

In Marriott’s submissions it has placed a great deal of emphasis on
other security measures it had in place, criticising the NOI/draft
decision for failing to look at the matter holistically.?? This criticism
is misplaced. The Commissioner has carried out a holistic analysis
of the relevant systems and security processes operated by Marriott.
What that analysis showed was that the measures identified in
section 6 above were appropriate to secure the CDE. Marriott’s
implementation (or perceived implementation) of other security
measures was not sufficient. It was appropriate for there to be

°t Removing any financial gain the data controller may have obtained from the infringement is
consistent with ensuring that the penalty is effective, proportionate and dissuasive (Article 83(1)),
and has regard to Article 83(2)(k), which refers to “financial benefits gained, or losses avoided,
directly or indirectly, from the infringement. ”

°2 Marriott’s First Representations at para 3.2(a) have been considered and addressed in section 6

above.

93 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.2(c).

52

multiple layers of security in this case (for the reasons given at
paragraph 6.17 above).

An extremely large number of individuals were affected by the
breach, specifically, 339 million guest records, of which —- for the
purposes of this penalty - 30.1 million°* were guest records
associated with EEA member states. Marriott has explained that the
total number of affected guests is difficult to estimate from this
figure as it may hold multiple records for an individual guest.?° Even
taking into account that the true number of affected individuals may
be 40% lower than initially estimated by Marriott,°° this is still a
significant number of individuals.

The mitigating steps taken by Marriott will have gone some way to
reassuring Marriott’s customers and therefore may have reduced or
mitigated the distress that may otherwise have been caused by the
data breach. The assurances given and the mitigating steps taken
by Marriott are taken into account below. It is nevertheless likely
that some of the affected individuals will, depending on their
circumstances, still have suffered anxiety and distress as a result of
the disclosure of their personal information (including payment card
information?’) to an unknown individual or individuals. The
Commissioner has considered in this regard the submissions made
by Marriott in its Representations.?° She notes the following points:

a. The Commissioner has not seen any evidence of financial
damage and is not required to investigate the existence or
otherwise of financial damage.?? In calculating the appropriate
level of penalty, the potential existence of such damage has not
been assumed or taken into account.

b. It is possible that some individuals may have cancelled their
payment cards. Contrary to Marriott’s submissions,?°° the
Commissioner is not required to investigate or identify evidence
of individuals actually cancelling their cards. In circumstances

°4 Marriott’s First Representations, page 65
°° See Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 2.4-2.6.

6 Ibid.

°7 Notwithstanding the fact that there was no actual financial harm to individuals, see Marriott’s
Second Representations para 2.7(a)(i).
°8 Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.1(d) and Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 2.7-

2.8.

°° A point emphasised in Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.2(d)(ii)(A); and Marriott’s Second
Representations, para 2.7(a)(i).
100 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.7(a)(iii).

93

where a large number of individuals have been informed that
their data, including some credit card data have been
compromised, the Commissioner considers it likely that some
individuals will have taken this step.

c. The possibility that some individuals may have been prompted
to cancel their payment cards is just one element of the overall
assessment of whether the breaches of the GDPR were likely to
cause distress. The act of cancelling a card may in and of itself
only cause inconvenience. It is the reason why such action was
necessary, the disclosure of personal information, that can
cause distress amongst some.

d. The fact that the Marriott call centre received 57,000 calls
between 30 November 2018 and 31 May 2019 (7,500 of these
being calls to EU-based call centres) is indicative of the
potential level of concern amongst affected data subjects on
learning of the breach and subsequently.!2

e. Further, even if individuals opted not to cancel their credit
cards, the Commissioner considers it likely that some
individuals will have experienced distress at having their
personal data exposed in a large-scale data breach. Marriott’s
suggestion that distress will only arise in cases where they are
advised by their banks to cancel their payment cards+° ignores
the fact that all personal data (not just financial data) is of
Significance to individuals, a significance which is reflected in
the legal protections afforded to that data under the GDPR.

7.13. Duration: Although the Attack itself spanned a four-year period,
the infringements that the Commissioner relies on in this Notice
occurred between 25 May 2018 (the date when the GDPR came into
force) and 17 September 2018. The Commissioner considers this to
be a significant period of time over which unauthorised access to
personal data went undetected and/or unremedied.+°

101 See further Step 5 below.

102 See Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.7(a)(iii), which is then contradicted by the
statement in para 2.7(a)(iv), which suggests that card cancellation is merely an “inconvenience” and
not, as suggested in sub-para (iii) a necessary component of a finding of distress.

103 Marriott’s First Representations at para 3.2(b) and Marriott’s Second Representations at para 2.3.

04

The intentional or negligent character of the infringement
(Article 83(2)(b))

7.14. The Commissioner has had regard to the guidelines provided by the
Article 29 Working Party in relation to assessing the character of the
infringement in issue. It explains that:

.. In general, “intent” includes both knowledge and wilfulness
in relation to the characteristics of an offence, whereas
“unintentional” means that there was no intention to cause
the infringement although the controller/processor breached
the duty of care which is required in the law.

It is generally admitted that intentional breaches,
demonstrating contempt for the provisions of the law, are
more severe than unintentional ones and therefore may be
more likely to warrant the application of an administrative
fine. The relevant conclusions about wilfulness or negligence
will be drawn on the basis of identifying objective elements
of conduct gathered from the facts of the case...1%

7.15. The Commissioner recognises that the infringement was not an
intentional or deliberate act on the part of Marriott. This has been
taken into account in assessing whether a fine is appropriate in this
case.

7.16. The Commissioner does, however, consider that Marriott was
negligent (within the meaning of Article 83(2)(b) GDPR) in
maintaining systems that suffered from the vulnerabilities and
shortcomings identified in Section 6 above.!°

7.17. In making this determination, the Commissioner places some weight
on the relevant context: a company of the size and profile of Marriott
is expected to be aware that it is likely to be targeted by attackers,
sophisticated or otherwise. Marriott must be aware that the nature
of its business involves processing large volumes of personal data,
including sensitive personal data. The risk of any compromise of that
information may have. significant consequences for Marriott’s
customers and its own business.

104 Pp.11-12.
105 Marriott’s general claim at paragraph 2.9(b) of its Second Representations refers to its specific
explanations in section 3 of those representations, which have been addressed in section 6 above.

59

7.20.

7.21.

In view of these factors, the Commissioner: (a) would expect
Marriott to have taken appropriate steps or a combination of
appropriate steps to secure the personal data of its customers; and
(b) considers that Marriott failed to comply with the standards
imposed by the GDPR in failing to do so. Beyond this, the
Commissioner has not treated the nature of Marriott’s conduct under
Article 83(2)(b) as an aggravating factor in assessing whether to
impose a penalty, or how much that penalty should be. However,
She is obliged to take into account the character of the infringement
under Article 83(2)(b). Thus, she does not consider that she has
erred in “applying this factor”, as Marriott submitted in its First
Representations. ?°°

Marriott relied upon the Article 29 WP Guidelines to argue that the
draft decision failed to treat the fact that the breaches were not
deliberate as a positive factor in favour in assessing whether to
impose a fine.?°” These Guidelines state that intentional breaches
are more likely to warrant the application of a fine. Marriott
submitted that if this is the case, the absence of intention must
weigh in the controller’s favour.

It is unclear what additional weight Marriott considers the absence
of intention should attract in this case. The mere recognition in the
Article 29 WP Guidelines of the obvious point that a deliberate
breach is more likely to result in certain consequences does not alter
the fact that a penalty may be imposed for a breach of a different
nature (and nor would it be consistent with Article 83 GDPR if fines
only applied to deliberate conduct). The Commissioner has taken
into account the fact that the breaches were not deliberate as part
of her overall assessment (as Marriott recognises!°°). However, in
circumstances where, as here, the breaches were negligent within
the meaning of Article 83(2)(b), that fact must also be taken into
account when assessing whether to impose a fine and, if so, at what
level.

Marriott also criticised the Commissioner’s analysis as _ being
duplicative because she had regard to, inter alia, the scale of
Marriott’s processing operations in assessing whether its actions

106 Marriott’s Representations, para 3.3.
107 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.9(a).

108 Thid.

96

were negligent under Article 83(2)(b), as well as in assessing
whether it complied with Articles 5 and 32 GDPR.?°° While it is true
that the Commissioner considered some of these factors when
concluding whether there was a breach of Articles 5 and 32, these
factors are relevant in both contexts. The issue of whether a breach
has arisen, and the nature of Marriott’s responsibility for it, are
clearly related issues.

Any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate
the damage suffered by data subjects (Article 83(2)(c))

7.22. The Commissioner has carefully considered Marriott’s submissions
to the effect that it could not discern from the draft decision how the
mitigation action it took in response to the Attack has been taken
into account because it was dealt with at this Step, rather than at
Step 5.119

7.23. The Commissioner remains of the view that it makes no difference
to the ultimate decision on what, if any, penalty to impose whether
the action taken by the controller to mitigate the damage is taken
into account here, or under Step 5 in this Penalty Notice. However,
She has decided to consider this issue separately under Step 5 in
this Penalty Notice.

The degree of responsibility of the controller or processor
(Article 83)(2)(d))

7.24. As a controller, Marriott is responsible under the GDPR for the
security of its systems and the protection of personal data stored
within those systems. It is required by the GDPR to implement
security measures to reduce the vulnerability of those systems, and
the vulnerability of the personal data processed within those
systems, to attack. While the entry of the Attacker into Starwood’s
systems pre-dates Marriott’s acquisition of that company, Marriott
had an ongoing duty to ensure the safety and security of the
systems it was using to process personal data.

7.25. Asis clear from Section 6 above, there were multiple deficiencies in
the security measures in place in respect of the Starwood system,
which Marriott continued to operate to process personal data after

109 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.9(c).
110 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 1.9-1.10, and 1.34.

o/

7.26.

7.2/7.

7.28.

7.29.

7.30.

the GDPR came into force. As a result, the Attacker was able to
remain present and undetected in the system after 25 May 2018
until the triggering of the Guardium alert in September 2018.

The Commissioner therefore considers that, for the duration of the
infringement on which this penalty is based, Marriott is wholly
responsible for the breaches of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32 GDPR
described above.

In its Representations, Marriott highlighted the fact that the NOI did
not mention that Accenture provided it with third-party IT
services.'?+ In response to the draft decision, Marriott explained that
in its view, the fact that it engaged Accenture to assist in the security
management of the Starwood network should be taken into account
in assessing Marriott’s responsibility for the Attack.

It is acknowledged that Accenture is an experienced provider of
security services and that it provided services in relation to
Marriott’s security environment. However, the fact that it was
charged with implementing, maintaining or managing certain
elements of the system does not reduce Marriott’s responsibility for
the breaches of the GDPR that have been identified. In
circumstances where Marriott accepts that it is the relevant data
controller, and significant failures in its security measures have been
identified, the engagement of third parties cannot reduce its degree
of responsibility.

For the avoidance of doubt, however, in taking a holistic view of the
security measures put in place, account has been taken of, for
example, the fact that Guardium was in place and certain alerts were
applied under that system (which Accenture monitored).

Finally, Marriott is correct to state in its Representations that the
Article 29 WP Guidelines provide that “industry standards... are
important to take into account” when assessing compliance with the
GDPR. The Commissioner has taken into account Marriott’s detailed
submissions on its compliance with PCI DSS standards, in particular
in respect to the concerns which arose in respect of the application

111 Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.5, and Marriott’s Second Representations paras 2.10-

2.11.

58

of MFA across the Starwood network.!!4 However, Marriott’s
obligations under Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32 GDPR go beyond the
requirements of the PCI DSS and extend to all personal data, not
just cardholder information with which those standards are
concerned. The fact that Marriott may have complied with certain
industry guidance focusing on specific types of personal data does
not obviate or reduce its responsibility for the security of all of the
personal data it holds.

Relevant previous infringements (Article 83(2)(e))

7.31. Marriott has no relevant previous infringements or failures to comply
with past notices.

7.32. Marriott claims that this fact should weigh positively in its favour,
rather than neutrally.t!? The fact that Marriott has no relevant
previous infringements is a matter that has been taken into account
in the Commissioner's decision whether to impose a penalty, and in
her decision as to the appropriate level of that penalty.

Degree of cooperation with supervisory authority (Article

83(2)(f))

7.33. Marriott has cooperated fully with her investigation and this has
been taken into account.

Categories of personal data affected (Article 83(2)(g))

7.34. The Commissioner has identified the relevant categories of personal
data in Section 4 above. As noted there, the data included in some
(but not all) cases unencrypted passport details, details of travel,
and various other categories of personal information including
name, gender, date of birth, VIP status, address, phone number,
email address, and credit card data.

Manner in which the infringement became known to the
Commissioner (Article 83(2)(h))

112 See Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.6 and Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.12
and Section 3.
113 Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.7.

59

7.35.

7.36.

7.37.

7.38.

7.39.

Marriott notified the Commissioner of the Attack on 22 November
2018 and is considered to have complied with its obligations in this
respect.

Conclusion at step 2

Taking into account: (a) the matters set out in Sections 2-4 and 6
above; (b) the matters referred to in this section; and (c) the need
to apply an effective, proportionate and dissuasive fine in the
context of a controller of Marriott’s scale and turnover, the
Commissioner considers that a penalty of £28 million would be
appropriate, before adjustment in accordance with Steps 3-5 below
and the application of the Commissioner’s Covid-19 policy. This
amount is considered appropriate to reflect the seriousness of the
breach and takes into account in particular the need for the penalty
to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

Step 3: Adding in an element to reflect any aggravating factors
(Article 83(2)(k))

The amount of the penalty, as identified at Step 2, may be increased
where there are ‘other’ aggravating factors.!1+ In this case, the
Commissioner does not consider there to be any other relevant
aggravating factors. Thus, no adjustment is made to the penalty
level determined at Step 2.

Step 4: Adding in an amount for a deterrent effect on others

The Commissioner is under an obligation to impose a penalty which
is “dissuasive”. The need for the penalty to be dissuasive in relation
to Marriott itself is addressed by the analysis at Step 2. Having
regard to the amount of the penalty identified under step 2, the
Commissioner does not consider it necessary to increase the penalty
further under Step 4 to dissuade others.+!°

The Commissioner is not aware of widespread issues of poor practice
that may be particularly deterred by the imposition of a higher
penalty. Given Marriott’s size and the scale of its operations, and
the fact that the Commissioner has decided to impose a penalty that
already takes those factors into account as part of the need to
ensure that any penalty is proportionate, effective and dissuasive

114 Tn accordance with Article 83(2)(k) GDPR, section 155(3)(k) DPA. and page 11 of the RAP.
115 This makes redundant the points about this Step made by Marriott in its Representations.

60

7.40.

7.41.

and to reflect the seriousness of the breach, the Commissioner
considers that no adjustment is necessary under Step 4.

Step 5: Reducing the amount (save that in the initial element) to
reflect any mitigating factors, including ability to pay (financial
hardship) (Article 83(2)(k))

As explained above, in principle, other relevant mitigating factors
could be taken into account under Step 2 or Step 5 of the RAP.
Previously the Commissioner considered such matters in the round
under Step 2 of the RAP, taking into account the factors in Article
83 GDPR and section 155(3) DPA 2018. However, in the light of
Marriott’s representations for the purposes of this Penalty Notice the
Commissioner has considered the relevant mitigating factors under
Step 5.

Following the guidance set out at page 11 of the RAP, and having
considered Marriott’s Representations, the Commissioner has taken
into account the following mitigating factors:

a. Marriott had, prior to becoming aware of the Attack, confirmed
in 2018 a new $19 million security investment for 2019, which
raised Marriott’s budgeted spend for that year on security to
$49.5million. Subsequent investment decisions in 2019 have
raised Marriott’s forecasted IT security budget spend on IT
security for 2020 to $108.5million;

b. Marriott took immediate steps to mitigate the effects of the
Attack and protect the interests of data subjects by
implementing remedial measures;

c. Marriott cooperated fully with the Commissioner’s investigation,
including responding promptly to requests for information;

d. Widespread reporting in the media of the Attack is likely to have
increased the awareness of other data controllers of the risks
posed by cyber-attacks and of the need to ensure that they take
all appropriate measures to secure personal data; and

e. The Attack and subsequent regulatory action has adversely
affected Marriott’s brand and reputation, which will have had
some dissuasive effect on Marriott and other data controllers.

61

7.42.

7.43.

7.44.

7.45.

More specifically, the Commissioner has taken into account the fact
that, upon being alerted to the Attack, Marriott acted promptly to
mitigate the risk of damage suffered by data subjects, by way of the
following technical remedial measures:

a. The deployment of real-time monitoring and forensic tools on
70,000 devices on the Starwood network;

b. Implementing password resets;
c. Disabling known compromised accounts; and
d. Implementing enhanced detection tools.

These measures should allow Marriott to prevent similar breaches in
the future, including by identifying any additional attackers or
malicious software being utilised on its servers.

The Commissioner has also taken into account the fact that Marriott
also took steps to: (a) establish a notification and communication
regime; (b) create a bespoke incident website in numerous
languages; (c) send 9.2 million notification emails to data subjects
whose country of residence was recorded in the Starwood Guest
Reservation Database as being in the EU); (d) establish a dedicated
call centre; (e) provide web monitoring to affected data subjects;
(f) enhance its data subject rights programme; (g) engage with card
networks; and (h) improve its technical and organisational
measures generally.t?© It is also noted that Marriott informed a
number of other regulatory and law enforcement agencies.

It is acknowledged that the steps outlined above will have gone
some way to reassuring Marriott’s customers, and therefore may
have reduced or mitigated any distress caused by the breach.
However, the fact that the Marriott call centre received 57,000 calls
between 30 November 2018 and 31 May 2019 (7,500 of these being
calls to EU-based call centres)?!” is indicative of the level of concern
amongst affected data subjects on learning of the breach and
subsequently.+?®

116 Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.4.

117 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.7(b)(ii).

118 Contrary to para 2.7(a)(b)(i) of Marriott’s Second Representations, it is not being suggested that
all of those who called Marriott’s call centre were suffering from distress or damage, but it is likely

62

7.46.

7.47.

7.48.

7.49.

Contrary to Marriott’s submissions,'?? the fact that very few of these
calls were escalated internally or resulted in a complaint is
irrelevant. The information provided by Marriott suggests that call
handlers had FAQs available to advise customers on how to respond
to the breach etc, which was presumably intended to address most
situations arising.‘°° Thus, the fact that only a certain number of
individuals had their calls escalated / resulted in a complaint does
not provide any real indication of the extent to which individuals
were distressed or harmed by the loss of their data.

Marriot also relied in this regard on a claim that the Commissioner’s
findings of distress and harm were materially undermined because
the centre only received 57,000 calls when millions of individuals
were affected by the breaches.!¢! However, in circumstances where:
(a) Marriott had established a dedicated website to address
concerns; and (b) individuals may have sought advice from third
parties and/or acted on their own knowledge and experience, the
comparison between these figures does not undermine the
Commissioner’s findings. The number of calls is sufficiently large to
suggest that there were data subjects who were concerned.

Thus, while the Commissioner has taken into account, as outlined
below, the steps taken by Marriott to mitigate the impact of its
breaches of the GDPR, she remains of the view that those actions
would not have immediately neutralised all the concerns on the part
of data subjects about their data being in the hands of criminals /
outside of Marriott’s control.

Having regard to the mitigating factors set out above, it is
appropriate to reduce the £28 million penalty by 20%, i.e. to £22.4
million.

As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Marriott has also argued that
any penalty should be reduced because of the financial hardship it
would cause.

The Commissioner has considered Marriott’s representations, and
the evidence it has provided. Although the Covid-19 pandemic has

that - as stated here - the majority of callers were at least sufficiently concerned to make the call,
which is inconsistent with Marriott’s position that no or only trivial harm at all would have arisen.
119 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.7(b)(iii).

120 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.7(b)(iii).

121 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 2.7(b)(iv).

63

had a significant impact on Marriott’s revenues, Marriott’s overall
financial position is such that the Commissioner does not consider
that the imposition of a penalty in the range being proposed will
cause financial hardship, or that Marriott will be unable to pay such
a penalty.

7.52. However, the Commissioner has published guidance entitled “7he
ICO’s regulatory approach during the Coronavirus public health
emergency”.+ That guidance indicates that “As set out in the
Regulatory Action Policy, before issuing fines we take into account
the economic impact and affordability. In current circumstances,
this is likely to mean the level of fines reduces.” While the proposed
penalty will not cause financial hardship for Marriott, the
Commissioner considers it appropriate to reduce the penalty that
would otherwise have been imposed, in light of the current public
health emergency and associated economic consequences. This is
addressed below, separately from Step 5.

7.53. The Commissioner has carefully considered Marriott’s submissions
that there are other additional mitigating factors that should be
taken into account in this case.!*? However, none of the points raised
justify a further reduction of the appropriate penalty beyond the
discount set out above. In particular:

a. The Commissioner does not consider it appropriate to further
reduce the penalty by reference to costs to Marriott of taking
measures to rectify or mitigate the impact of its infringement,
including the cost establishing a bespoke website, call centre,
web monitoring, the enhancement of Marriott’s data subject
rights programme, and any other customer-facing remediation
activities. The fact that Marriott was required to expend a large
amount —- on Marriott’s assessment in excess of $50 million!‘
- in customer-facing remediation activities is not directly
relevant to the amount of any penalty. The fact that mitigating
measures were taken, in accordance with Marriott’s obligations
as a controller, has already been taken into account.

122 Version 2.1, 13 July 2020.
123 Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.13(c).
124 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 3.4(a) and 3.13(c)(vi).

64

b. Marriott’s preparations for the introduction of GDPR are
noted.!2° However, these do not address the Commissioner’s
conclusions on Marriott’s failure to implement appropriate
security measures in relation to the systems it acquired from
Starwood.

C. The Commissioner has recognised that the Attack involved
persistent criminal activity.1@© But this does not alter the fact
that the security of Marriott’s network was inadequate in a
number of respects, and that those failings could and should
have been addressed on a prospective basis through the
implementation of appropriate measures. It is Marriott’s
breaches of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32 GDPR for which it is being
penalised, not the actions of third parties.

d. The security measures that were deployed on the Starwood
security environment and on the Starwood Guest Reservation
Database are noted.!*” However, the existence of these
measures do not detract from the Commissioner’s conclusions
on Marriott’s failure to implement appropriate security
measures (see section 6). That Marriott took some steps to
secure the Starwood system is not considered to be a mitigating
factor in the circumstances of an infringement of this scale and
severity.

7.54. Accordingly, having carefully considered the mitigating factors
raised by Marriott, which are relevant to the assessment of the
appropriate level of any penalty, the overall penalty payable by
Marriott after Step 5 is £22.4 million.

Application of Covid-19 Policy

7.55. As described above, having regard to the impact of the Covid-19
pandemic (on Marriott and more generally), and consistently with
the Commissioner’s published guidance, a further reduction is
appropriate and proportionate. The final penalty payable will
therefore be reduced to £18.4 million.

125 As relied upon at paras 3.13(c)(iii) of Marriott’s First Representations.
126 Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.13(c)(iv).
127 Marriott’s First Representations, para 3.13(c)(i)-(ii).

65

7.56.

Application of the fining tier(s) (Articles 83(4) and (5) GDPR)

The infringement of Article 5(1)(f) GDPR falls within Article 83(5)(a)
GDPR, whereas Article 32 falls within Article 83(4)(a). The
appropriate tier is therefore that imposed by Article 83(5)(a) as this
is the gravest breach in issue in this case.

In any event, for the year ended 31 December 2017 Marriott has
confirmed that its relevant worldwide annual turnover is $4.997
billion. The penalty the Commissioner has decided to impose on
Marriott is the sum of £18.4 million. This is considerably less than
4%, indeed considerably less than 1%, of Marriott’s total worldwide
annual turnover, and accordingly well within the cap imposed by
Article 83(5) GDPR.

Marriott’s other representations on the decision to impose a
penalty and the appropriate Penalty amount

7.98.

Marriott’s Representations contained detailed submissions in
response to: (a) the Commissioner’s decision to impose a penalty at
all; and (b) the proposed penalty amount, as indicated in the Notice
of Intent. The Commissioner has carefully considered those
submissions and, to the extent they have not been addressed above,
responds to them below.

In summary, Marriott submitted as follows:

a. First, the Commissioner misapplied Article 83(2) in deciding to
impose a fine and in determining the appropriate level of
penalty. A proper application of that Article should result in no
fine being imposed at all or, in the alternative, it should result
in the imposition of only a low level of penalty;!2°

b. Second, the Commissioner unlawfully applied an unpublished
internal document, entitled “Draft Internal Procedure for
Setting and Issuing Monetary Penalties”, in setting the
proposed penalty on Marriott which was included in the NOI.!2°
However, setting a proposed penalty amount without the Draft

128 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 8 and Section 3; and Marriott’s Second
Representations, Section 2.
129 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 9(a) and paras 4.2-4.12, 4.14(e),

4.19.

66

Internal Procedure (or similar), as the Commissioner did in the
draft decision, also offends the principle of legal certainty.!*°

c. Third, the Commissioner erred by relying on turnover as the
sole metric in determining the level of fine proposed in the NOI,
and in continuing to treat turnover the most important factor in
its quantification analysis in the draft decision;1!*4

d. Fourth, the Commissioner has applied the wrong fining Tier
under Article 83 GDPR in calculating the proposed fine;+%

e. Fifth, the Commissioner erred in the NOI by applying an uplift
to ensure an appropriate deterrent effect; +%?

f. Sixth, the Commissioner breached Marriott’s legitimate
expectation that she would operate her fining powers under the
GDPR in accordance with past precedents, i.e. decisions made,
under the DPA 1998 and/or only applying incremental increases
to the fines that would have been imposed under the 1998 Act
(which was subject to a £500,000 maximum fine limit).1*+ This
same failure, which Marriott described as a failure to comply
with the “Precedents-Based Approach”, is also said to amount
to a breach of the principle of legal certainty.+*° In its Second
Representations, in particular, Marriott contends that in the
absence of any new guidance providing clear and specific
quantification methodology determining how fines are to be
calculated, any decision to issue a fine would breach that
principle.t7© In this regard Marriott also relies on a comparison
with a case decided by the Financial Conduct Authority (the
“FCA”) in respect of Tesco Bank.!*’ It also relies on an alleged
inconsistency between the penalty proposed in this case and
those imposed through other decisions issued by the

130 Marriott’s Second Representations, Executive summary, para 1, and paras 1.1-1.5.

131 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 9(b), and paras 4.14-4.15 and
Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 1.35-1.38.

132 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 9(b), and paras 4.16-4.17.

133 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.24-4.30

134 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 9(c), and paras 4.36-4.41; Marriott’s
Second Representations, Executive Summary, para 1, and paras 1.1, and 1.28-1.31.

135 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 9(c), and paras 4.50-4.73; and
Marriott’s Second Representations, Executive Summary, para 1, and para 1.1.

136 Marriott’s Second Representations, Executive Summary, para 1, and paras 1.6-1.11.

137 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.31-4.35; and Marriott’s Second Representations, paras
1.26-1.27

6/

7.60.

7.61.

7.62.

7.63.

Commissioner and by other European supervisory
authorities.!%®

g. Seventh, the Commissioner has acted contrary to the RAP
because she has failed to calculate the penalty proposed in the
NOI and the draft decision in accordance with its terms;!*° and

h. Eighth, the Commissioner proposed a penalty in the NOI which
is disproportionate on its face NOI, and the revised penalty set
out in the draft decision remains disproportionate.!*°

(1) Application of Article 83(2)

The Commissioner has described at paragraphs 7.3-7.53 how the
factors listed in Article 83(2) apply to the facts of this case. In its
Representations, Marriott criticised the Commissioner's findings in
this regard. Where necessary those criticisms have been addressed
at each step of the analysis set out above and/or in Section 6 above.

(2) Draft Internal Procedure

Prior to issuing the NOI in this case, the Commissioner had
developed a Draft Internal Procedure for calculating proposed fines,
as a supplement to the RAP. Its purpose was to provide an indicative
guide, by reference to the turnover of the controller, as to the
appropriate penalty. As the GDPR is a new regime, this additional
tool was intended to assist the decision-makers in applying Article
83 GDPR and the RAP to the facts of a particular case.

Marriott made detailed submissions on this issue.‘*+ The
Commissioner has considered those submissions in deciding how to
approach the calculation of the penalty to be imposed in the draft
decision, and ultimately in this Notice.

The Commissioner remains of the view that the controller’s turnover
is a relevant consideration in determining the appropriate level of
penalty (see below), but she has decided that the Draft Internal
Procedure should not be used. Therefore, in deciding the appropriate

138 Marriott’s Second Representations, Executive Summary, para 1, and paras 1.12-1.19.

139 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.42-4.49; and Marriott’s Second Representations,
Executive Summary, para 2, and paras 1.32-1.34.

140 Marriott’s First Representations, Executive Summary, para 9(d), and paras 4.74-4.77, and
Executive Summary, para 1, and paras 1.39-1.41 of Marriott’s Second Representations.

141 See paras 4.2-4.12 of Marriott’s First Representations and paragraphs 1.2-1.5 of Marriott’s
Second Representations in particular.

68

7.64.

7.65.

7.66.

penalty in this case the Commissioner has not relied on the Draft
Internal Procedure (she did not rely upon it for the purposes of her
draft decision, and the same approach was adopted in preparing this
Penalty Notice). She has instead relied only on Article 83 GDPR,
section 155 DPA and the RAP. The approach taken to the calculation
of the penalty for the purposes of this Notice is set out above.

Marriott is wrong to assert that, but for its pressing for disclosure in
correspondence, the Commissioner would not have disclosed the
draft guidance document.!** The policy was provided on 2 August
2019 in response to a request made in a letter from Marriott dated
24 July 2019. The NOI set out how the penalty was arrived at. The
Commissioner also provided further information about how the
penalty was calculated in her letter of 17 July 2019. The
Commissioner is obliged to consult the controller on the NOI and she
did so. Marriott took the opportunity to make detailed submissions,
and the Commissioner has carefully considered all those
submissions, and acted upon them to address the concerns raised.

Marriott’s First Representations also criticised the use of a
percentage range as part of its process for calculating the proposed
penalty (applying the Draft Internal Procedure) and/or the way in
which the Commissioner applied the turnover bands at the NOI.!*7
As this approach has not been adopted in this Notice, nor has the
Draft Internal Procedure been applied, the Commissioner does not
respond to the individual points made by Marriot on the application
of the Draft Internal Procedure further here.

In its Second Representations, Marriott states that whilst it
welcomes the fact that the Draft Internal Procedure is no longer
relied upon by the Commissioner, (a) the Commissioner cannot rely
upon the £99.2m figure proposed in the NOI as a reference point
when assessing the legality or proportionality of the present
proposed penalty figure;+*+ (b) the RAP cannot constitute an
adequate basis for the calculation of a penalty in circumstances
where the Commissioner had previously devised the Draft Internal
Procedure;!*° and (c) in the absence of the Draft Internal Procedure,
there is a lack of clarity governing penalty calculation and

142 Marriott’s Representations, paras 4.2 and 4.8.
143 Marriott’s Representations, paras 4.19-4.23.
144 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.3.
145 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.4.

69

7.67.

7.68.

7.69.

7.70.

7.71.

undermines legal certainty.!*° These points are not accepted for the
following reasons.

First, the Commissioner does not seek to use the figure of £99.2m,
as proposed in the NOI, as a “reference point” for the penalty set in
the draft decision, or the present penalty. Rather, the Commissioner
carried out a fresh calculation exercise having regard to the factors
listed under Article 83 of the GDPR and the RAP. See further para
7.128 below.

f

Second, the Draft Internal Procedure was not developed to ‘cure
any gap in legal certainty left by the RAP. It was intended to be a
helpful supplement to the RAP for internal decision-making
purposes. In deciding what level of penalty may (at the consultation
Stage) or is appropriate in this case, the Commissioner has always
applied the approach set out in the RAP, and considered the factors
under Article 83 GDPR. The fact that a document was created to
provide supplemental detail to the RAP does not render the RAP so
deficient so as to prevent a penalty being calculated in this case.
Marriott’s submissions on legal certainty are addressed in more
detail below.

(3) The Commissioner’s reliance on Marriott’s turnover

Marriott advanced a number of criticisms of the Commissioner’s
reliance on turnover in calculating her proposed penalty in its First
and Second Representations (see, for example, para 4.14 of its First
Representations).

First, Marriott submitted that the only metric the Commissioner used
to calculate the penalty proposed in the NOI was turnover. This is
incorrect. As is clear from the NOI itself, while turnover was used as
a Starting point in seeking to assess the appropriate penalty, a range
of other relevant factors were considered in accordance with the RAP
and the GDPR. In any event, the turnover-bandings set out in the
Draft Internal Procedure has not been used in preparing this Notice.

Second, Marriott submitted that turnover cannot be regarded as a
core metric in a case such as this where the wrongdoer has not
profited from the breach. Marriot claimed that there is no logical
relationship between the breach and the controller’s turnover. The

146 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.5.

70

Commissioner’s approach, Marriott said, simply punishes a
controller for being a large undertaking. Marriott compares the
penalty proposed in this case to the Commissioner’s decision
regarding Doorstep Dispensaree Ltd, dated 20 December 2019,
Suggesting that this shows that the Commissioner is treating
turnover, unjustifiably, as the most important factor.**7

7.7/2. The Commissioner does not accept these arguments. She considers
turnover to be a relevant consideration in determining the
appropriate level of penalty in this case (as well as in other cases
not involving a controller profiting from a breach), for the following
reasons:

a. A turnover-based approach is consistent with the approach
taken to penalties in the GDPR. The Data Protection Directive
did not prescribe the level of fines that Member State
authorities should impose for data breaches. The GDPR departs
from that approach. In doing so, it expresses the maximum
penalty in terms of a percentage of turnover. Turnover is
therefore a relevant factor in determining the appropriate level
of penalty to be imposed. This is also reflected in the Recitals,
which make clear that the economic position of the controller is
relevant even where the controller is a private person and not
an undertaking: “... Where administrative fines are imposed on
persons that are not an undertaking, the supervisory authority
should take account of the general level of income in the
Member State as well as the economic situation of the person
in considering the appropriate amount of the fine.”

b. Further, and in any event, the Commissioner is obliged to
ensure that any penalties imposed are “effective, proportionate
and dissuasive”. Having regard to a data controller’s turnover
complies with this principle by ensuring that the level of any
penalty is not only proportionate, but is also likely to be an
effective and dissuasive deterrent for the undertaking on which
it is imposed, and other equivalent controllers. It is self-evident
that imposing the same penalty on an undertaking with a
turnover of billions of pounds as would be imposed on a small
or medium sized business would not be effective, proportionate
or dissuasive. Comparable regulatory regimes that share the
GDPR’s emphasis on deterrence, such as under competition

147 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 1.36-1.37.

71

law, also take turnover into account in in some form in setting
penalties.

c. Marriott’s claim that the introduction of the maximum amount
safeguard caps in Articles 83(4) and (5) does not mean that
turnover can be treated as a relevant metric is incorrect, for the
reasons articulated in points (a) and (b) above.'*® In particular,
Marriott’s claim that treating turnover as a relevant metric
“outside of disgorgement of profits cases is illogical and
perverse”, does not withstand scrutiny. It is plain from the
relevant provisions of the GDPR, read as a whole, that the
economic position of a controller is one relevant factor in
determining what penalty is appropriate on the particular facts
of any case. The GDPR does not limit the relevance of turnover
to cases involving disgorgement.

d. As to the decision in Doorstep, the difference between the
turnover of that controller and Marriott is obviously relevant.
However, each case is considered on its individual facts.
Marriott’s attempts to compare the number of records involved,
and then scale up the appropriate level of fine (60 times the
number of records, results in a maximum 60 times higher level
of fine), are misconceived. See further paras 7.116-7.119
below.

7.7/3. Third, Marriott submitted that any penalty regime engages the
fundamental rights of controllers, including their fundamental right
to property as provided for under Article 1 of Protocol 1 of the
European Convention on Human rights, and Article 17 of the EU
Charter of Fundamental Rights.!4° The Commissioner recognises
that in imposing a penalty on a controller, she must comply with any
relevant fundamental rights that are engaged, including under the
ECHR or the EU Charter. However, it is not accepted that taking into
account a controller’s turnover in determining the appropriate
penalty is incompatible with those rights because it is arbitrary or
results in grossly disproportionate levels of penalty (as Marriott
contended at para 4.14(c) of its First Representations). It is an
approach that complies with the regime established by the GDPR.

148 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.14(d).
149 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.14(c).

12

7.74.

7.75.

7.76.

7.77.

7.78.

Fourth, Marriott contended that the turnover approach _ is
inconsistent with the RAP.!°° This is incorrect.

As explained above, the calculation of the proposed penalty in the
NOI was not exclusively based on turnover, contrary to Marriott’s
claim. It took account of the various factors discussed in the RAP.
This Notice addresses each step of the process of the RAP in turn to
make even clearer that the penalty has been set in accordance with
its terms. Turnover is relevant to establishing whether a penalty is
appropriate, proportionate, effective and dissuasive in applying the
steps set out in the RAP, as explained above.

Moreover, Marriott’s reliance in this regard on reference in the RAP
to circumstances in which the Commissioner will convene an
advisory panel is misplaced.1°? The RAP describes “very significant”
penalties as those “expected to be those over the threshold of 1M”
in that particular context, i.e. the context in which the Commissioner
may convene an advisory panel. This was not intended to be - and
in any event cannot objectively be read as giving - an indication to
controllers of the likely penalty they may face in the event of a data
breach, particularly in light of the provisions of GDPR. The section
of the RAP setting out how penalties will be calculated does not refer
to the concept of “very significant” penalties at all.

Consequently, the RAP’s discussion of when an advisory panel may
be convened is no basis for saying that turnover is not a relevant
factor in determining penalty. Marriott was also therefore wrong to
claim in its Representations that: (a) the £1imillion figure referred to
in the discussion of when an advisory panel may be appropriate
Should be the starting point for calculating fines in the most serious
and significant cases before the Commissioner;!>* and (b) the
Commissioner must justify imposing any fine above that threshold
figure. This is a misreading of the RAP, see further below.

Firth, Marriott contended that what the Commissioner should have
done in quantifying the appropriate penalty was to “(a) start with
what an infringement of this nature is objectively worth in penalty
terms having regard to its nature, gravity and duration, irrespective
of the financial stature of the wrongdoer; then (b) add or take away

150 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.14(f).
151 Page 26 of the RAP. See also para 4.46 of Marriott’s First Representations.
152 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.46.

13

amounts to reflect respectively aggravating and mitigating factors;
before moving at the final stage of the analysis to (c) the question
of whether, in view of all the circumstances, some increase in the
penalty is required to ensure a deterrent effect.”!>?

7.79. The Commissioner’s approach is set out above. She has considered
each step of the RAP, and all of the factors listed in Article 83 GDPR,
in order to arrive at the overall appropriate penalty. Given that the
financial stature of the wrongdoer would need to be taken into
account at least in considering whether an increase in fine would be
necessary to secure a deterrent effect, it is not clear that adopting
the alternative structure proposed by Marriott would make any
material difference to the outcome.

(4) The appropriate tier

7.80. In response to the NOI, Marriott submitted that the Commissioner
had applied the wrong fining tier. It was said that the Commissioner
incorrectly categorised the breaches in issue as a Tier 2
infringement, allowing for a maximum fine of 4% of turnover.+>* This
submission was based, in summary, on the following points:

a. Article 5(1)(f) is simply a shorter, summary version, of the
more detailed and specific obligation in Article 32. Article 32
GDPR therefore amounts to the /ex specialis of Article 5(1)(f)
and should therefore take precedence.

b. The maximum fine should be 2% in this case because:

i. Any ambiguity in the wording of a provision of law
imposing a civil penalty should be resolved in favour of the
controller.

li. The wording of Article 83(4) makes clear that the intention
was to impose this lower maximum cap for breaches of
Article 32, which is the /ex specialis.

7.81. The Commissioner does not accept these submissions, for the
following reasons.

153 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.15.
154 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.16-4.17.

14

7.82. First, the GDPR addresses expressly what the appropriate maximum
fine should be when a controller breaches the “basic principles of
processing” under Article 5 GDPR. Article 5(1)(f), as one of the basic
principles of processing, cannot be dismissed as simply a summary
of a later new provision included in the GDPR. The EU legislature has
made it clear that a higher penalty is appropriate where a controller
is found to have breached the basic principles of processing that
underpin the regime. Contrary to Marriott’s submissions, Article
83(5)(a) provides in clear in explicit and unambiguous terms that
4% is the appropriate cap for breaches of Article 5, including Article

3(1)(f).

7.83. Second, the GDPR also recognises that the same or linked
processing operations may give rise to infringements of several
provisions of that Regulation. It addresses this by making clear that
the total amount of any penalty is to be the subject of the amount
specified for the gravest infringement (see Article 83(3)).

7.84. Third, the principle of /ex specialis means that “where a legal issue
falls within the ambit of a provision framed in general terms, but is
also specifically addressed by another provision, the specific
provision overrides the more general one.”!>> The Commissioner
does not accept that the application of the /ex specialis principle
precludes the Commissioner from treating this case as a Tier 2
infringement.

7.85. Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32 are evidently distinct provisions of the
GDPR, notwithstanding the degree of overlap. Article 32 applies to
processors, whilst Article 5 does not. Contrary to Marriott’s
Submission, there is no basis upon which to give Article 32
precedence over Article 5(1)(f). They can be applied to controllers
at the same time: Article 32 does not override the _ basic
requirements laid down in Article 5(1)(f), read with Article 5(2),
which establish the responsibility of the controller for demonstrating
compliance with the security obligation and any breach of that
principle.

7.86. Further, and in any event, the provisions in Article 83(4) and Article
83(5) are distinct provisions which make explicit provision for

155 R (Hallam) v Secretary of State for Justice [2019] UKSC 2 at [144]. See also Case T-60/06 RENV
II Italy v Commission (2016), at [81].

19

7.87.

7.88.

different fining tiers to apply to breaches of Articles 5 and 32 GDPR.
It is clear that any infringement of Article 32 falls within the scope
of Article 83(4) whilst an infringement of Article 5(1)(f) falls within
the scope of Article 83(5). Article 83(4) is not more specific than
Article 83(5). It is incapable of overriding or taking precedence over
it. Rather, any issue as to which maximum penalty applies is
resolved by the application of Article 83(3) which states in terms
that in these circumstances “the total amount of the administrative
fine shall not exceed the amount specified for the gravest
infringement.” The legislation itself provides the mechanism for
addressing circumstances in which processing engages more than
one obligation.

The Commissioner notes that her interpretation of Articles 83(4)-(5)
is supported by the Article 29 Working Party’s Guidelines on the
application and setting of administrative fines for the purposes of
the GDPR, which states:

Specific infringements are not given a specific price tag in the
Regulation, only a cap (maximum amount). This can be indicative
of a relative lower degree of gravity for a breach of obligations
listed in article 83(4), compared with those set out in article
83(5). The effective, proportionate and dissuasive reaction to a
breach of article 83(5) will however depend on the circumstances
of the case...

The occurrence of several different infringements committed
together in any particular single case means that the supervisory
authority is able to apply the administrative fines at a level which
is effective, proportionate and dissuasive within the limit of the
gravest infringement. Therefore, if an infringement of article 8
and article 12 has been discovered, then the supervisory authority
may be able to apply the corrective measures as set out in article
83(5) which correspond to the category of the gravest
infringement, namely article 12....4°®

Fourth, in any event, Marriott’s main objection to the use of the 4%
maximum penalty appears to be its impact on the turnover-bands
applied under the Draft Internal Procedure, which was applied in
calculating the proposed fine included in the Notice of Intent. As this

156 Pages 9-10.

16

7.89.

7.90.

7.91.

approach has not been adopted in determining the final level of
penalty to be imposed by this Notice, the same concerns do not
arise. It is noted that the final penalty imposed is well below the 2%
cap, and so the application of that cap in reaching the final decision,
as opposed to a 4% cap, would have made no difference.

Marriott also asserted in a single paragraph of its First
Representations that the Commissioner’s approach to quantification
is “wholly arbitrary”.1°’ This is not accepted, either as a criticism of
the NOI or this Notice. It appears that this argument rested on
Marriott’s contention that there are no clear and precise rules in
place governing the setting of the penalty by the Commissioner. This
claim is addressed below.

(5) An uplift to ensure a deterrent effect

Marriott claimed that the proposal in the NOI to increase the
proposed penalty for the infringement to 2.5% to ensure that it
would have a_= sufficient deterrent effect was arbitrary and
unlawful.?°° This is not accepted. The Commissioner is obliged to
consider whether such an uplift should be made under the RAP and
Article 83 GDPR.

Marriott’s criticisms of the NOI in this regard relied heavily on its
criticisms of the previous use made of the Draft Internal Procedure’s
turnover-based approach in setting the proposed penalty at that
stage.'°>’ These points have been addressed above. It is, however,
important to note that para 61(d) of the NOI explained that in the
light of the scale and severity of the infringement and factors
discussed in para 61(a)-(c), a penalty of between 1.5 and 2% would
be appropriate and proportionate. Para 61(f) then went on to
consider what an appropriate uplift would be to ensure a deterrent
effect, which was a separate issue that warranted individual
consideration at a later stage of the analysis. These are separate
steps under the RAP (see Section 2 above). It is therefore incorrect
to assert, as Marriot did, that any uplift from the judged starting
point means that the Commissioner: “is Knowingly imposing a
disproportionate penalty sum. °°

157 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.18.
158 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.24.
159 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.25-4.30.
160 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.25.

Tf

7.92. In any event, as set out above under Step 4, no additional amount
has been added in this case for deterrent effect.

(6) Legitimate Expectation and Legal Certainty
The alleged legitimate expectation

7.93. In response to the NOI and draft decision, Marriott relied on
selective quotes from public statements made by the Commissioner
or her office about the new GDPR regime to contend that fines under
the GDPR should be set in accordance with past precedents, i.e.
decisions made under the DPA 1998.1! What Marriott seeks, in
effect, is for the Commissioner unilaterally to impose the previous
domestic cap and approach to fines which applied in the UK prior to
the harmonised regime under the GDPR.

7.94. Plainly it is not open to the Commissioner, as a matter of domestic
or EU law, to adopt unilaterally an approach that would undermine
the object and purpose of the new EU regime.

7.95. The GDPR, and consequently the DPA, represent a significant
departure from the regime under DPA 1998 and the 1995 Directive.
The GDPR was expressly intended to harmonise the rights of, and
protections afforded to, data subjects across the EU. It differs
markedly from the 1995 Directive, most obviously in that it
introduces significantly higher and more effective penalties, with
maximum penalties defined expressly by reference to turnover. The
GDPR also imposes new obligations on controllers, including new
organisational requirements such as the designation of a data
protection officer and new provisions on the lawfulness of
processing. The GDPR and the DPA have significantly changed the
legal landscape in data protection and enforcement.

7.96. Marriott’s submissions are to the effect that public statements made
by the Commissioner override these changes, and as such she is
bound to apply in effect the DPA 1998 and/or only apply incremental
increases to the level of fine that would have been issued under that
Act. Public statements made by the Commissioner or her staff, which
are in any event quoted selectively and/or taken out of their proper
context by Marriott, are incapable of achieving this outcome.

161 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.37-4.41. See also Marriott’s First Representations, paras
4.65-4.66, see also Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.28-1.31.

18

77.

More specifically, the public statements referred to by Marriott in its
Representations were not intended to be - and cannot objectively
be read as - assurances to any controller that the Commissioner
would not use her powers on a case by case basis, to impose
effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in appropriate
cases. Marriott disputes this, however, the Commissioner maintains
her position for the following reasons:

a. Marriott refers to a blog post published by Elizabeth Denham
on 9 August 2017.!®* Whilst it is true that the post states that
the Commissioner will not “simply scale up penalties” issued
under the DPA 1998, it also states: “Don’t get me wrong, the
UK fought for increased powers when the GDPR was being
drawn up. Heavy fines for serious breaches reflect just how
important personal data is in the 21** century world. We intend
to use those powers proportionately and judiciously.”

b. Marriott refers to a speech made by James Dipple-Johnstone at
the Data Protection Practitioner’s Conference on 9 April 2018,!°
however the quotation which Marriott selectively cited is
preceded by a summary of the approach the Commissioner
intended to take, including “we will look at each case on its own
merits. We'll look at the features and context of each case. And,
this is important, we will focus on area of greatest risk to people
- potential or actual harm... The more serious, high impact,
deliberate, wilful or repeated breaches can expect the most
robust response.”

7.98. There is nothing within these quotations which can be read as giving

rise to a legitimate expectation that the Commissioner would either:
(a) issue fines in accordance with the previous maximum limit which
applied under the DPA 1998 and/or past cases issued under that
Act; or (b) only apply incremental increases to the level of fine that
would have been imposed under the DPA 1998.1%* As made clear in
the blog and speech to which Marriott has referred, the
Commissioner had always been clear that she would (in accordance
with her obligations) use her full powers on a case by case basis, to

162 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.29(a).
163 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.29(b).
164 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 1.30-1.31.

19

impose effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in
appropriate cases, which includes the possibility of large fines.

7.99. Marriott accepted in its Second Representations that the
Commissioner is not constrained by the previous’ statutory
maximum of £500,000.'® But in practice, its attempt to limit the
Commissioner to only making incremental increases to the fine level
that would have applied under the DPA 1998 amounts to the same
thing. The starting point is the application of Article 83 GDPR, the
DPA 2018 and the RAP. It is not what the decision would have been
under a superseded legal regime.

The alleged lack of legal certainty

7.100. As set out above, the Commissioner recognises that in imposing a
penalty on a controller, she must comply with any relevant
fundamental rights that are engaged, including under the ECHR or
the EU Charter. She does not accept, however, that the penalty
regime applicable under, in particular, Article 83 GDPR _ lacks
sufficient certainty such that it cannot be lawfully applied. That is in
effect Marriott’s case. It contends that unless the Commissioner
applies a precedents-based approach based on decisions made
under the DPA 1998, it is impossible for the Commissioner to meet
the requirement of legal certainty.1°°

7.101. The DPA reflects the directly applicable EU law framework for
determining penalties. The Commissioner does not agree with
Marriott that Article 83 GDPR or section 155 DPA are so unclear that
they are unlawful. Taken together, those provisions specify the
circumstances in which a data protection authority has the power to
impose an administrative penalty, and the matters that are relevant
to that decision and the amount of any penalty. The legislative
regime is supplemented by the RAP, which provides additional
guidance in this regard. Contrary to para 4.60 of Marriott’s First
Representations, the RAP cannot be dismissed as “unclear and open-
ended”.

7.102. Marriott’s submissions on legal certainty are wrong for the following
seven reasons.

165 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.30.
166 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.50-4.73.

80

7.103. First, in accordance with section 161 DPA 2018 the RAP was laid
before Parliament for approval, and was duly approved.

7.104.In its Second Representations, Marriott emphasised the fact that
Articles 83(8)-(9) and 70(1)(k) GDPR “directly envisage and expect”
that the high-level principles set out in the legislation will be the
subject of national or supranational guidance.!®” Pursuant to section
160 DPA, the Commissioner is obliged to issue guidance in respect
of how she will determine the amount of penalties to be imposed.
She has done so through the RAP.

7.105. Second, the RAP, which must be read alongside the DPA and, in
particular, Article 83 GDPR, provides sufficient clarity and legal
certainty, as required under the ECHR and EU law. In particular, the
RAP explains that Step 2 intends to “censure” the breach, and this
requires taking into consideration its scale (including the number of
data subjects affected) and the severity of the breach itself, and
expressly refers to the factors set out in the DPA. Examples of
aggravating factors are set out in the RAP to assist with the
interpretation of Step 3, as well as mitigating factors (to be
considered at Step 5). Marriott’s argument appears to be that
because it is possible for the RAP to be more detailed, it must follow
that the RAP is insufficiently detailed to fulfil the requirements of
legal certainty. That is not the case.

7.106. It is not suggested that it is impossible to produce more detailed
quantification guidance.1®° The GDPR is a new regime. Whilst not
necessary for the purposes of legal certainty, more detailed
guidance may well be developed over time as the UK and EU Member
States gain experience in applying it. The Commissioner has
committed to updating the guidance available in the future.
However, the fact that there is potential for further development of
the guidance does not mean that the present guidance is so unclear
as to be unlawful. The RAP provides sufficient guidance as to the
circumstances in which penalties, including large penalties, will be
applied.

167 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.9.
168 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.10.

81

7.107.

7.108.

7.109.

7.110.

Third, it is neither necessary nor possible to produce a specific
quantification framework which tells controllers precisely what level
of fine they may face.

In para 1.9 of its Second Representations, Marriott claims that the
Commissioner cannot lawfully impose penalties without setting out
a further quantification methodology.!®? This is incorrect. The
guidance available from Article 83 GDPR, the DPA and the RAP,
cannot be rejected as legally uncertain purely on the basis that it
does not attempt to specify exactly what levels of penalty might
attach to wrongdoing.*7°

It would be impossible for the Commissioner to specify all the types
of situations, and relevant circumstances, in which a penalty may
be imposed under the GDPR. Nor could any guidance permit a
controller to calculate specifically what any fine might be (especially
by reference to a particular fine). The guidance must be general
enough in order to cover a wide range of potential situations, and
respect the general discretion of the Commission (subject to public
law principles). The GDPR also requires the Commissioner to take a
case-by-case approach, guided by the need to ensure that any
penalty is effective, proportionate and dissuasive, and subject to the
prescribed turnover caps.

Fourth, contrary to Marriott’s submissions,*’+ there is also no flaw in
the Commissioner’s approach because, on the particular facts of this
case, no adjustments needed to be made at certain steps in the
process. The draft decision explained clearly, in particular, that: (a)
the need to ensure the penalty is dissuasive was taken into account
sufficiently under Step 2 such that there was no need for a further
uplift reflecting the need for the penalty sum to deter others under
Step 4;17¢ and (b) the mitigating factors had been taken into account
under Step 2, so no adjustment was made at Step 5 to avoid
‘double-counting’. The fact that certain steps did not require
adjustments to be made in a particular case particular case does not
render the RAP, which is intended to be of general application,
“deficient” .+77

169 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 7.93.

170 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 1.7-1.10.

171 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.34.

172 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.34.

173 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.10, see also para 1.34.

82

7.111.

7.112.

7.113.

7.114.

7.115.

In any event, to assist Marriott, the Commissioner has dealt with
the mitigating factors arising in this case under Step 5 of the analysis
(rather than Step 2, see para 7.40 above) so that it can see the
impact of these factors on the overall level of penalty.

Fifth, as explained at paragraph 7.68 above, the Draft Internal
Procedure was not developed and is not relied upon for the purposes
of meeting the legal certainty requirement, contrary to Marriott’s
submissions during the course of the investigation.'”* While it was
intended to be a helpful supplement to the RAP for internal decision-
making purposes, it has been disregarded for the purposes of this
Notice.

Sixth, for the reasons given above in respect of Marriott’s legitimate
expectation argument, it is not open to the Commissioner to re-
impose the different, UK-only, legislative cap on fines in the manner
sought by Marriott. The bands which applied under the DPA 1998,
and the decisions made under it, cannot be relied upon as a
justification for the Commissioner to fail to comply with EU law.

Finally, as to the claim made by Marriott that other bodies, namely
the FCA and the EU Commission, apply more rigorous and more
predictable rules, it is noted that each regulator must take
enforcement action within the bounds of its own legal obligations,
and in this case the Commissioner is bound to comply, in particular,
with Article 83 of the GDPR.?7°

Other decisions by the Commissioner / Decisions by other European
authorities

Marriott submitted in its Representations that the proposed penalty
is inconsistent with previous action by the Commissioner and other
EU supervisory authorities, contrary to the stated aim of GDPR being
to create a harmonised regime. ?’° In its Representations,?’” Marriott
states that the proposed penalty is (a) inconsistent with action taken
by other EU supervisory authorities, (b) contrary to the stated aim
of the GDPR being a harmonised regime; and (c) inconsistent with

174 Marriott’s First Representations, para 4.61 and Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.4.

175 The submissions made at paras 1.20-1.25 of Marriott’s Second Representations are noted.

176 Marriott’s First Representations paras 4.69-4.73 and Marriott’s Second Representations, paras
1.12-1.19.

177 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 1.14-1.19.

83

the decision taken by the Commissioner in a different case. Marriott
specifically refers to the following cases:

a. the decision by CNIL to impose a €50 million penalty on Google.
Marriott contended that the infringements in Google’s case
were more serious than those considered in this Notice.

b. the Austrian Data Protection Authority against Osterreichische
Post AG, which was fined €18 million;

c. a €2.6 million fine issued by the Bulgarian Commission of
Personal Data Protection to the Bulgarian Revenue Agency in
relation to a cyber-attack which affected over 5 million data
subjects;

d. a fine of €645,000 imposed on Morele.net by the Polish
supervisory authority for a cyber-attack affecting over 2 million
data subjects;

e. a fine of €150,000 impose on Raiffeisen Bank by the Romanian
supervisory authority concerning the misuse of customer data
by employees of the bank;

f. the Romanian authority on UniCredit Bank SA. The company
was fined of €130,000 for a breach of Article 25 GDPR due to
the compromise of payment details, when its worldwide
turnover for 2018 was of €18 billion; and

g. the Commissioner’s decision regarding Doorstep Dispensaree
Ltd, dated 20 December 2019.

7.116. The purpose of GDPR is, as Marriott contends, to secure a
harmonised regime. However, that harmonisation is achieved
through the application of harmonised rules and standards to the
particular facts of the case at issue. Any cross-border processing
decision must then be subject to the Article 60 process.

7.117. The Commissioner, along with other EU supervisory authorities,
must comply with her obligations under Article 83 and that means
that she is required to impose a penalty which, in her own judgment,
having regard to all the matters listed in Article 83, and on the facts
of the individual case, is effective, proportionate, and dissuasive. In
principle, ‘equivalent’ breaches should attach ‘equivalent’ penalties.

84

But in practice, each case will turn on its own particular facts. Whilst
the Commissioner has considered the limited information available
about the cases to which Marriott has referred, she maintains that
simple comparisons of the penalties imposed in different cases do
not show that the Commissioner has erred in applying Article 83
GDPR, DPA and/or the RAP.

7.118. There is a great degree of variation in the penalties imposed by
Supervisory authorities even in the context of the limited fines
imposed to date,!”® which are - in the Commissioner’s view -
indicative of a decision-making process that is fact-specific. It would
be premature and not necessarily helpful to rely heavily at this
juncture on a survey of the action taken by other supervisory
authorities, given the relatively few decisions that have been taken
under the new regime. This is particularly the case where there is
limited public information available about the reasons for the
decisions taken by other authorities.

7.119. In any event, as the Commissioner is acting as lead authority in this
case, the way to ensure consistency is not by comparing the penalty
to a selection of other penalties issued on different facts in the EU.
Rather, the consistency mechanism provided for by Articles 60(4)
and 63 GDPR will allow for all of the supervisory authorities
concerned to cooperate with the Commissioner, make enquiries, and
contribute their views in order to ensure the consistency of the
ultimate penalty sum with penalties that have been (if there are any)
and/or will be applied in similar situations. The Article 60 process is
one of the factors which, as noted in Article 63, contributes to the
consistent application of the GDPR and the Commissioner is entitled
to rely on the process as a contributory factor.

(7) Application of the RAP

7.120. In response to the NOI and/or the draft decision, Marriott submitted
that the Commissioner had acted contrary to the RAP by: (a) failing
to consider separately the appropriate fines for the provisionally
found breaches of Articles 33 and 34 GDPR, from those in relation
to Articles 5(1)(f) and 32 GDPR; (b) failing to adopt the starting

178 Notably the decision of the French SA, the CNIL, to fine Google 50 million Euros. See also

https://www.enforcementtracker.com/ which suggests there is significant variation in the level of
fines that have been imposed to date, ranging from a few thousand to millions of pounds.

85

7.121.

7.122.

7.123.

7.124.

7.125.

point that any penalty of over £1 million is reserved for very
Significant cases; and/or (c) failing to correctly apply the factors that
the RAP categorises as determining whether a higher penalty can be
imposed.?7?

As to the first issue, the Commissioner has not included in her final
decision a finding that Marriott breached Article 33 or 34 GDPR.
Thus, this issue no longer arises.

The second issue is based on a misreading of the RAP. Marriott
misunderstood the discussion of the circumstances in which she may
convene an advisory panel. This point has been addressed above at
paras 7./6-7.7/7.

In response to the draft decision, Marriott submitted that the
Commissioner is seeking to “reinterpret” the wording of page 26 of
the RAP in this regard. That is incorrect. The section of the RAP
which addresses specifically the setting of a penalty does not refer
to this concept of “very significant” penalties at all. This language is
used only to describe the types of situations in which the
Commissioner may convene an advisory panel.+®°

Marriott also submitted that the fact that: “the ICO appears to have
determined that this case is not significant enough to merit
convening the panel, which ts entirely inconsistent with the fine
imposed and further demonstrates the arbitrariness of this process.”
181 This submission is unfounded. The Commissioner has discretion
over whether to convene a panel. The reasons why a panel was not
convened in this case was explained in correspondence, i.e. this
decision would be subject to the Article 60 consultation process. In
such circumstances, the panel was unnecessary. It does not imply
that this case lacks significance. For the reasons outlined above, this
case has been found to involve significant breaches of the GDPR.

The third issue was also based on a _ misinterpretation or
misapplication of the RAP. Contrary to Marriott’s submissions, !®¢ the
RAP does not set out at page 27 the only categories of cases in which
it is justifiable for the Commissioner to impose a high penalty. The

179 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.42-4.49 and Marriott’s Second Representations, paras
1.32-1.34.

180 Page 26 of the RAP.

181 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.33.

182 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.32.

86

examples provided are not to be applied as a list of criteria which
must be met in any case before a penalty exceeding £1 million can
be imposed. They provide a general indication of the circumstances
in which a penalty will be higher. The Commissioner is not therefore
departing from guidance in a manner which has to be justified. This
Penalty Notice explains why the fine set is appropriate.

7.126. The GDPR was enacted in 2016 and came into force two years later.

7.127.

7.128.

Data controllers, especially global undertakings of the size of
Marriott, would have been fully aware of the maximum penalties
permitted by GDPR. The reference to the sum of £1 million in the
RAP does no more than describe the circumstances in which the
Commissioner may decide to convene an advisory panel, and page
27 of the RAP cannot be relied upon to confine the Commissioner's
power to impose penalties in the manner sought by Marriott. The
decision as to whether a penalty should be imposed and at what
level, in order to provide an effective, proportionate and dissuasive
result has to be reached through the application of Article 83(2)
GDPR and section 155 DPA 2018. It is clear from the RAP that the
Commissioner will adopt a case-specific approach, taking into
account all relevant considerations. That is the approach taken in
this case.

(8) Proportionality

Marriott contends that the proposed penalty set out in the NOI was
disproportionate on its face.18? This argument is not accepted in
respect of the provisional penalty that was proposed in the light of
the information available at that time.

It is also not accepted that the penalty proposed in the draft decision
was also disproportionate. That proposed penalty took account of
and reflected the submissions made by Marriott in response to the
NOI. Marriott criticised the approach taken in the draft decision on
the basis that the claim that the fine proposed was proportionate
rested inappropriately on a comparison with the level of penalty set
out in the NOI1%*. That was not the approach taken. Section 7 of the
draft decision explained clearly the basis upon which, at that time,
the proposed penalty was proportionate. In any event, this Penalty
Notice explains in clear terms why the level of final penalty imposed

183 Marriott’s First Representations, paras 4.74-4.77 and Second Representations, para 1.8.
184 Marriott’s Second Representations, paras 1.8 and 1.40.

8/

is proportionate in the light of the findings reached by the
Commissioner (see paragraphs 7.3-7.57 above).

7.129. The mathematical error made at para 5.43 of the draft decision is
noted.+®° No such error is made at para 7.57 above.

8. HOW THE PENALTY IS TO BE PAID

8.1. The penalty must be paid to the Commissioner’s office by BACS
transfer or cheque.

8.2. The penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but will be paid into
the Consolidated Fund which is the Government’s general bank
account at the Bank of England.

9.ENFORCEMENT POWERS

9.1. The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a penalty unless:
e all or any of the penalty has not been paid;

e all relevant appeals against the penalty notice and any variation
of it have either been decided or withdrawn; and

e the period for appealing against the penalty and any variation
of it has expired.

9.2. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the penalty is recoverable
by Order of the County Court or the High Court. In Scotland, the
penalty can be enforced in the same manner as an extract registered
decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution issued by the sheriff
court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.

185 Marriott’s Second Representations, para 1.41.

88

Dated the 30" day of October 2020

Elizabeth Denham
Information Commissioner

Information Commissioner’s Office
Wycliffe House

Water Lane

Wilmslow

Cheshire

SK9 5AF

89

ANNEX 1

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER

1. Section 162(1) of the Data Protection Act 2018 gives any
person upon whom a penalty notice has been served a right of
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the
‘Tribunal’) against the notice.

2. If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers: -

a) that the notice against which the appeal is brought is
not in accordance with the law; or

b) to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of
discretion by the Commissioner, that she ought to have
exercised her discretion differently,

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other
decision as could have been made by the Commissioner. In
any other case the Tribunal will dismiss the appeal.

3. You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the
Tribunal at the following address:
General Regulatory Chamber

HM Courts & Tribunals Service
PO Box 9300

Leicester
LE1 8DJ

a) The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received by
the Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the notice.

b) If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not
admit it unless the Tribunal has extended the time for
complying with this rule.

90

The notice of appeal should state: -

a) your name and address/name and address of your
representative (if any);

b) an address where documents may be sent or delivered
to you;

C) the name and address of the Information
Commissioner;

d) details of the decision to which the proceedings relate;

e) the result that you are seeking;

f) the grounds on which you rely;

g) you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the
penalty notice or variation notice;

h) if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above
the notice of appeal must include a request for an
extension of time and the reason why the notice of
appeal was not provided in time.

Before deciding whether or not to appeal you may wish to
consult your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an
appeal a party may conduct his case himself or may be
represented by any person whom he may appoint for that
purpose.

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier
Tribunal (General Regulatory Chamber) are contained in
sections 162 and 163 of, and Schedule 16 to, the Data
Protection Act 2018, and Tribunal Procedure (First-tier
Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)).

91