1/22

 File No.: PS/00029/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim on 08/05/2020
before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The claim is directed against the
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT of the GOVERNMENT OF EXTREMADURA, with NIF
S0611001I (hereinafter, the claimed one). The claimant, *** POSITION.1 in the course 19/20 in
the ***ORGANISM.1, of ***LOCATION.1, rendered its services in the previous year in the
***ORGANISM.2, in ***LOCATION.2. The grounds on which the claim is based are that
disciplinary procedure was initiated on ***DATE.2, appointing Instructor, at
***POST.2 D B.B.B. (*** POSITION.2 hereinafter) that throughout the procedure has
communicated to third parties that said file is being instructed.

By way of example and without being exhaustive:

-***DATE.1, notification of initiation of the file through two colleagues of his
new Center, ***ORGANISMO.1, D. C.C.C., (C.C.C. hereinafter) and D. D.D.D.
(***STATION.3 of the Center, ***STATION.3 hereinafter) who sign the formality of
notification. DOC 13 of the file.

The copy of the procedure of ***DATE.1 states that "he has been personally notified of the
resolution of the General Secretary of Education of ***DATE.2 ordering the
 XX/XXXX
initiation of disciplinary proceedings
 
 
 . For the record and in accordance with the
Articles 40 and 41 of Law 39/2015 and 21 of RD 33/1986 of 10/01, sign this
written by the interested party and the public employees”, with the signature of C.C.C. and ***POST.3.

-10/28/2019, summons to take the claimant's statement, set for 11/12/2019,
sent by post to your address, appears in DOC 16 of the file. In it, it
invites you to sign the receipt, indicate ID and date and reiterates it by email to a
address that the Instructor consigns or, if not possible, to a postal address that he indicates.
The claimant adds that the citation is also sent by the instructor to an email
email to ***POST.3 of the Center, ***POST.3, to which is attached the document of the
summons to take a statement as filed, communicating the *** POSITION.3 the
result of your internship (DOC 17 of the file). It is a document signed by
***POSITION.3 on ***DATE.3, addressed to the instructor of the file with the headline “subject
notice of summons to the claimant”, stating that “it has notified for its signature the
claimant a notification sent by you through the email “said
teacher informs me that she has already received the notification by mail and that after signing the
I received the mailing, which is why you are refusing to sign the notice again.”
“States your intention to attend the appearance and show the registered document there
of the received.”
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/22

-The claimant revealed in the act of appearance of 11/12/2019 to the Instructor,
asked by him about the address to which he wishes notifications of the
this file and to what email (folio 66 claim), indicating the
claimant the physical address without email, including that of the Instructor's office and
your email
 
 In the act, the claimant is asked if
*** POSITION 3 gave him a notification procedure for that appearance. Besides, the
The claimant provides a copy of the documentation that he had previously submitted addressed to the center
educational as well as medical reports (folio 70).

 , DOCUMENT 18.
 

-
Several documents referring to medical consultations appear as part of the file.
and diagnoses of the claimant that she provides, according to a document signed on 09/23/2019 to
Negotiation of Secondary Teaching staff, referred to the portal management module
RAYUELA on the appearance of two unjustified fouls on 06/20 and 06/21. Ask for your correction.
Among others, it highlights photocopy of medical leave of 06/27/2019, discharge 07/3/2019, discharge 09/2/2019
and high on the same date and proof of outpatient care on 06/21/2019 at 9:17 a.m., making
receipt that same day at 9:39 a.m. Diagnoses appear in the reasons for the consultation, as well
as treatment in report of 06/24/2019, in consultation of 06/27/2019, copies of parts
medical leave on 06/27/2019 and discharge on 07/03/2019, attendance sheet on 09/02/2019 (pages
85 and earlier of your claim pdf).

-11/28/2019, letter from the instructor to the Health Area of *** LOCATION.1 informing that
has opened disciplinary file, the file number and date, and that for
specify the statement made by the claimant, asks about the visits to the center the
06/24 and 27/2019 hours of arrival, check-in and check-out. DOCUMENT 27 folio
153

-Summary of charges signed on 11/28/2019, in writing addressed to the address of the claimant
(doc 26, page 144)

-On 12/27/2019 a summons is issued for the declaration of the claimant scheduled for
01/15/2020, indicating that if its presentation is not possible for justified reasons,
"You must communicate it to a fax that indicates and by regular mail." (fol. 169) He received from
document requires the instructor to be returned by the claimant to an address of
institutional email that indicates you, and if not possible to the physical headquarters of your
office, postal address. The receipt of the summons is signed by the claimant on 01/10/2020.

-01/13/2020 due to the impossibility of attending the face-to-face statement on 01/15/2020,
request your change to the instructor by mailing the same 13/01 DOC 40, and by fax
according to the copy he provides sent on 01/13. She points out that she sent the fax from the
public establishment *** ESTABLISHMENT.1 DOC 40.(fol. 174)

01-14-2020, claimant's brief challenging the refusal of the test and requesting the
instructor annulment of "summons", by fax to the instructor, states that the fax is sent
from the public establishment *** ESTABLISHMENT.1, given the need for the
written documents reach the instructor before 01/15/2020-DOC 44., folio 185.

-01/16/2020, the respondent is notified of the modification of the citation date to the day
01/21/2020 to take a statement, through the *** POSITION.3 of the institute- Document
43. The claimant expresses in writing on 01/15/2020 her complaint to the instructor indicating that
notify you at the personal address provided, folio 205-DOC 49, on folio 184, appears the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/22

signature of *** POSITION.3 indicating the place and time of the appearance for the initiation
of a disciplinary file, signing said diligence *** POSITION.3 together with the receipt of the
claimant on 01/16/2020.

-Emails exchanged between Instructor and ***POST.3 of the center in
***DATE.3, 01/10 and 16/2020, DOC 68. On folios 260 and ss. emails appreciated
between the instructor and D.D.D., ***POSITION.3 of the Center, in which the instructor
sends summons to be returned to that email address. contains a file
attached "summons" with the name and surname of the claimant, under the heading "summons
disciplinary record” in all of them. The one of 01/16/2020 contains instructions for
if he refuses to sign the document, with the note that the respondent refuses to sign and
that "you must make the subpoenas through your postal mail"

-01/17/2020, remission of claimant by fax from a bookstore to the instructor of a brief
with registration stamp of that day explaining that you received the summons notice for the
01/21/2020 on 01/16/2020. DOC 46, fol. 199. He adds that said summons has been
notified through the ***POST.3 of the center in which it provides services ***POST.3.
Provides folio 201 in which, with the signature of ***POST.3, it informs the claimant of the
Summons for 01/21/2020 to take a statement on the facts they have given
leading to the initiation of a disciplinary proceeding.

-01/17/2020 letter from the instructor to the claimant using the postal address provided by
interested party and also, by fax (seven pages) with the urgent and to the attention of the
claimant. The file contains the fax sent by the instructor to the establishment
*** ESTABLISHMENT.1 DOC 45 and 50 and document 3 of ticket collection by the
claimed in the bookstore *** ESTABLISHMENT.1. The claimant states that the fax, of
17/01 picked it up on the 22nd. In document 50- when the act of declaration of the
claimant- it is specified that the instructor indicates that he was unaware that the fax was public.

-01/21/2020 new appearance of the claimant before the instructor (206 et seq.)

-Writing from the claimant to the instructor in which, among other things, the notification is made clear
to third parties that a disciplinary procedure is instructed, that the *** POSITION.3 of its
institute by having to extend notification procedure, has "had access and knowledge
on the initiation of the file and many of its details” folio 253. Attached is a copy
from ***DATE.3 in which ***POST.3 sends you email
to the instructor with the summons of the claimant, in the same sense in mail of 01/10/2020
and 01/16/2020 folios 260 and 261.

-Copy of the challenge report addressed to the General Education Inspectorate made by
the instructor on 01/29/2020 alluding, among other aspects, to the notification, to the double
notification and its effects, admitting that it has been used by "the general secretary in its
communications with the claimant through ***POSITION.3, as a hierarchical superior of the
center where he works this course 2019-2020” folio 268

-Dated 01/30/2020, another formality of notification of delivery of the
agreement to suspend the procedure by challenge, including the reference of
suspension of the disciplinary procedure initiated against the interested party, signed by two employees
public, one of them again the ***PUESTO.3.-folio 266- and another professor, D C.C.C.,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/22

appearing in DOCUMENT 70. In the same sense, on 02/02/2020, on the resolution of the
recusal procedure. DOC 74.

-Again, a procedure is carried out to notify the claimant of the resolution of
his recusal, signed on 02/04/2020, by two public employees, one of them the
*** POST.3 of the Center, folio 281.

-Response to the instructor, dated 02/12/2020 regarding his request for entry and exit times at the
that he was treated at the health center, folio 317.

-These notifications are alternated through people not related to the procedure,
with notifications to your address, as was the one in document 86, of the offer of
file hearing, held on 02/10/2020.

-02/12/2020, DOC 87 Management of the health area of ***LOCATION.1.

The claimant indicates that despite the fact that the Administration complies with the procedure
disciplinary with a mission of public interest, the instructor exceeds his powers
using third parties for acts in which their participation is not foreseen, producing
invasive and unnecessary actions.

He also claims because he was not informed of the identity of the data controller,
purpose, assignments and legitimate basis or the way to exercise their rights.

Provides 325 pages in pdf, the first 26 contain the complaint. Relates Doc 1, minutes of
view of the file, two: copy of the file with 90 documents and three: fax ticket, which
bears the date 01/22/2020 of the establishment *** ESTABLISHMENT.1, 1/7, with the text
urgent with name and two surnames of the claimant, without indicating origin.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, in accordance with the provisions of Title article 65.4 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 10/9/2020, it was transferred to the claimed the
copy of the claim, receiving it on 10/12/2020.

Manifests the one claimed on 11/13/2020:

-In a written copy of the ***PUESTO.2- instructor of the file to the claimant, states:

1) Acts in the processing of the disciplinary file under the legal basis
of article 6.1.c) of the RGPD.

2) In addition, it has complied with the provisions of article 27 of the LOPDGDD on
processing of data related to infractions and administrative sanctions.

3) The notification of the initiation of the disciplinary file is made by the General Secretariat
of Education by diligence of personal notification of ***DATE.1/ 2019 and signing
the claimant and two public employees as collaborators, one of them ***POST.3,
and another Mr. C.C.C.. “Furthermore, article 41 b of Law 39/2015 allows the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/22

administrations to be able to practice notifications by non-electronic means “to ensure the
effectiveness of administrative action. It indicates that since the claimant signed that
delivery, "supposes the consent of the personal data that concerns you", "the
subsequent requests to the ***POSITION.3 for collaboration throughout the instruction are
framed in article 18 of law 39/2015”, “using the double channel of notification in
under article 41.7 of law 39/2015.

4) Regarding the data requested from the Health Area, it states that they are requested because they
were provided by the claimant and were considered essential for the clarification of
the alleged facts. It is practiced by virtue of article 34 of Royal Decree 33/1986 of the
10/01 approving the regulation of the disciplinary regime of the civil servants of the
AGE and article 156.1. f) of the law 13/2015 of Public Function of Extremadura, as
practice of diligence of request of merely non-sensitive administrative data,
leading to the determination and verification of facts to determine the
responsibilities subject to sanction. What was requested were check-in and check-out times.
to the health center related to the initiation of the file.

5) Regarding the fact that on 01/17/2020, the instructor sent the answer to some allegations
made by the claimant to a fax number previously used by her, without verifying
If it was public or private, sending information, state:

5.1 In the claimant's appearance record of 11/12/2019, the claimant asked
by the address to which you wanted the notifications to be sent, and to which email
email, he only gave a physical mailing address. It considers that the respondent did not comply with the
established in article 14 of Law 39/2015, which establishes that in any case “they will be
obliged to interact through electronic means with public administrations
to carry out any procedure in an administrative procedure at least the
employees of public administrations for the procedures actions that they carry out with
them by reason of their status as public employees, in the manner determined
regulations by each administration” in such a way that the instructor was not able to
notify preferably by electronic means (art 41.1. Law 39/2015) nor could he use the
notice of availability of a notification in electronic headquarters that mention the
same article in its point 6. The Public Function Law of Extremadura in its article 156
determines that the maximum duration of the disciplinary procedures that have as their object
very serious or serious offenses will not exceed nine months, adding that exceeding
Said limit “supposes the nullity” of the procedure. In the same minutes, it was communicated to the
claimant the Instructor's mailing address and email address,
stating that in that act "he gave him the information established in article 13 of the RGPD
on the exercise of their rights, indicating an electronic address of the instructor who
allow.”

The claimant used faxes on 01/13, 14 and 17/2020, not being "all valid"
in that they do not comply with the "notification channels signed in the minutes" . Declares
that the fax has been used voluntarily by the claimant "even knowing that it was not one
of the means signed in said act”, considers the fax of 01/13 valid, because it indicated
so in the writing, although the shipment does not indicate where it is sent from. but not of the
two others of 14 (sent from the same number as the one on January 13 and 17, 2020

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/22

from another number). Explain why this delivery channel is considered by the claimant
“invalid”, when, as he comments, they were received by him, and “in good faith”, they were read.

He proceeded to “answer using the same fax numbers, because if he had used the
postal mail had arrived after the summons scheduled for 01/21.”

"Assumes that when you sent the fax of 01/17 that you should not have used", but
did so because there was no other alternative way, in good faith and in order not to incur defenselessness, in
response to faxes from 13 and 14.

5.2 Concludes that the possible people who have participated in the tests such as the
health personnel, or their colleagues who participated in the notification procedure
they did “as collaborators”.

- Copy of a document signed by the Secretary General of Education and Employment,
11/10/2020, in which it indicates that it will remember and transfer both to the General Inspection of
Education and Evaluation as the education inspections of the Delegations
Provincial, the need to ensure that in the processing of disciplinary files
because it is applied with the greatest possible rigor in the Data Protection regulations.

THIRD: On 10/26/2020, the claimant files a new document stating that
The resolution of the file has been notified through two public employees who
mentions, colleagues of hers in the work center where she currently lends her
services ***BODY.3***LOCALITY.1, who have signed the notification procedure
staff on 09/23/2020. This time it indicates that notification has not been attempted on your
home address.

Provide a copy of document 1, consisting of two parts:

a) “Notification” document, directed by the ***POST.2nd General Education and
evaluation to the *** POSITION.3 of the IES, in which "I am sending you a sealed document to deliver to...
The data of name and surname, DNI and NRP... that holds your destination during the
course in that center… The personal delivery must be carried out by two officials appointed
for that headquarters, one of them being you, and you must collect the return from the recipient
of the copy…dated and signed by the interested party”.

"Personal notification diligence" completed, and by hand annotated on 09/23/2020,
b)
the data of the claimant and those of the resolution that resolves the disciplinary file, with
your number.

FOURTH: On 01/15/2021, it is agreed by the *** POSITION 3a of the AEPD the admission
to process the claim

FIFTH: On 05/12/2021, it was agreed by ***POST.3a of the AEPD:

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE to MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND
EMPLOYMENT (JUNTA DE EXTREMADURA), with NIF S0611001I, for the alleged
Infractions of articles 32 and 5.1.f) of the RGPD, as indicated in articles 83.4. a) and
83.5.a) of the GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/22

For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, the sanction that could
to reciprocate would be a warning.”

SIXTH: On 05/26/2021 the respondent alleges:

1) At all times we have acted guided by the interest in the correct notification of the
acts that occurred in it, complying with the rules that govern the procedures
disciplinary and in the event of possible resources.
It was intended to leave sufficiently accredited in the file the extremes referred to
notices and deadlines.

The instructor used the means that the administration itself has through the centers of
work in which the claimant provides service. They were civil servants in the
exercise of public functions and subject to the duties of confidentiality in the performance
of its functions. As a collaborating civil servant in the disciplinary procedure, the
treatment carried out has been lawful, aimed at the purpose pursued, which was to fulfill
procedures and deadlines. For this, it was essential to prove the correct notification of the
acts of the procedure and the person to whom they were addressed.

It indicates that it contained "a brief alphanumeric reference that I could not help guessing
no relevant data about its specific content for the functioned officials
collaborators in said procedure.

Article 41.b) of Law 39/2015 admits to ensure the effectiveness of the action
administrative notification by direct delivery of a public employee of the
notifying administration. Being a legal possibility and even indicated for assumptions
such as the one at hand, in which it is vitally important to prove the correct
completion of each legal procedure
The legal requirement obliges to record in the file what is notified and
who, how and when said notification is made.

The aim was to achieve, on the one hand, to avoid difficulties entailed by home notification
and the successive delays that accumulate consume time and can produce the
expiration of the procedure and be sufficiently justified in the procedure of the
compliance with the required procedures.

2) The principle of typicity that is foreseen in the sanctioning procedure is not complied with,
article 27 of law 40 2015, in the accusations, since it refers to two articles
allegedly infringed in which behaviors or actions are not described, but rather
establish principles relating to the processing of personal data. Result
Insufficient appeal to these principles to take for granted the behaviors
offenders.

The principle of typicity imposes the authority that exercises the sanctioning power in the
obligation to subsume the imputed facts adequately in the type, this is a
description of the sanction by the legal norm. They request the file that the claim

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/22

3) It accompanies a report prepared by the instructor of the procedure of 9/11/2020, which already
was contemplated in the response to the transfer of the claim.

SEVENTH: On 12/28/2021, the proposal for
resolution with the literal:
 
"  FIRST
 : That by ***PUESTO.3a of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
 
sanction the DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT of the BOARD OF EXTREMADURA,
with NIF S0611001I, for an infringement of article 32 and another of 5.1.f) of the RGPD, of
in accordance with articles 83.4 a) and 83.5.a) of the RGPD, typified as serious and very
serious in articles 73.f) and 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: That by ***PUESTO.3a of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
proceed to impose the COUNCIL OF EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT of the BOARD OF
EXTREMADURA in the period determined, the adoption of the necessary measures to
adapt the processing operations to the personal data protection regulations
that it performs, with the scope expressed in the Fundamentals of Rights of this proposal
of resolution.”

Unlike the initial agreement, its content was not accessed, producing the effects
determined by article 43.2 of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (LPACAP):

“When notification by electronic means is mandatory, or has been
expressly chosen by the interested party, it will be understood as rejected when the
ten calendar days from the availability of the notification without accessing its
contents."

No claims are received.

EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the
documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/22

FIRST: The claimant, when submitting the claim, 08/05/2019 *** POSITION.1 in the
***ORGANISM.1 of ***LOCATION.1, claims because in the disciplinary file that
he was initiated on *** DATE.2, due to events that occurred in his previous destination and course 18/19 in the
***ORGANISM.2, of ***LOCALITY.2, in several acts of notification procedures of the
actions followed, their personal data have been disclosed and the situation or the
procedure to other people, third parties, co-workers, who are not related to the
processing of the same.

SECOND: It is accredited in the page number of the claim 55/325, a "Diligence
personal notification”, pre-filled template, handwritten the date
***DATE.1/2021, dependency: ***ORGANISM.1, (in which he holds his post
during the course 19/20 the claimant), and the data of the claimant, and the literal that she was
notifies the resolution of ***DATE.2 by which the initiation of the file is ordered
disciplinary no. XX/XXXX. For the record, articles 40 and 41 of Law 39/2015 appear
and 31 of RD 33/1986 of 10/01. The document is signed by two public employees D.D.D.,
***POSITION.3 and C.C.C. who, according to the claimant, were classmates at said center.
Days later, in writing of 10/28/2019, she was summoned for 11/12/2019 by the Instructor
for taking a statement, specifically, appearing in the same document I received that the
claimant received on 6/11/2019. The document details the day and place and that you will be
take a statement on the facts that have given rise to the initiation of the file
disciplinary. The complainant reiterates that the notification is also made, through the
*** POSITION 3 of the center, providing as evidence, a document signed by the center
***DATE.3, indicating to the instructor in the matter, the data of the claimant, and that "she has
notified for signature to the claimant a notice sent by you through the
email in which he is summoned to appear on ***DATE.4 of 2019…” said
The teacher informs me that she has already received the notification by postal mail that she signed the receipt and
sent from the administrative attention center of the Junta de Extremadura” (62/325). The
The claimant provides a copy of the instructor's delivery receipt to her, which she carries as
address of the claimant, and the copy provided by the claimant shows received the
6/11/2020.

THIRD: In the appearance to take a statement on 11/12/2019 (65-66/325), the
The instructor asks the claimant to which address she wants the reports to be sent.
notifications of the file and to which email, providing an address
particular, while the instructor indicates the physical address of the -Delegation of
Education, and an email where you can “contact me at any time to
all those procedures that it considers opportune or convenient in the processing“. To the
indicated domicile of the claimant, the instructor sent several notifications after said
date, according to the copy it provides (140/325, 11/19/2019 request for information), or the
statement of charges of 11/28/2019 (144/325) that appears in the acknowledgment of receipt delivered to the
claimant on 12/2/2019 (154/325), to name just a few.

FOURTH: Another procedure notified through the *** POSITION.3 of the Center is accredited with the
signing of the notice of notification to the claimant for summons on 01/21/2020, the place, and the
reason, "for the taking of a statement of the facts that have given rise to the file
disciplinary”, “following the instructions of the Instructor”, signed by both on 01/16/2020
(185/325) document 43. The same letter reached the claimant by post, including
I received from 01/16/2020 (7 and 184/325).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/22

FIFTH: The communications exchanged between the Instructor and ***POSITION.3 of the Center
to send the citation models signed by the claimant, and that were returned
signed by it or with the notice of its attempted delivery or rejection, were implemented,
some at least, by email, as proof that it provides printing of
Screenshot of the emails, from ***DATE.3 (260/325), 10, and 01/16/2020 (261-262/325). In
the latter, urges ***POSITION.3 that if he refuses to sign the delivery of the document of
the citation of 01/21/2020, "sign it and a witness of that refusal and send me that
document, with the added notation that it has been denied” and the note that the claimant
He refuses to receive it, urging that "just as they asked him, he should make the summonses to
through your postal mail. On 01/17/2020, the claimant sent by fax from another
public establishment "Library El Encuentro" (document 46, 198/325) written in which
You have been notified in two ways of the summons for 01/21/2020 accompanying the
I received.

phone ***PHONE.1

SIXTH: The claimant, for the citation of 01/15/2020, requests the instructor on 01/13/2020
change of date through postal mail, document 41 (178 and 179/325) and in order to
prompt reception, send the same request by fax from a public establishment
*** ESTABLISHMENT.1
the same date, document 40.
Also dated 01/14/2020 from the same establishment and method, the claimant sends
new fax to the instructor with 6 pages (document 44) that he also sent by registration
administrative, according to a copy of the fax you send. In the letter, he reveals his
procedural disagreements and justification for not being able to attend his lawyer
The claimant submitted a letter to the instructor on 01/16/2020 urging them to practice the
notifications at the address that he had provided for this purpose in taking the statement
of 11/12/2019 (Document 49). Dated 01/17/2020, reception in the Ministry of 23,
He filed a challenge against the instructor and a complaint for the use of the notification against his
rights by not being notified at home, using other means. (251/325) document
68.

SEVENTH: On 01/21/2020, the claimant stated in the record of appearance before
the instructor (206/325) the violation of their rights due to the way in which the
summons notifications, and that in fact he had submitted a brief on the 17th of the same
month, recusing him and requesting his abstention, showing him a copy of the sheets.

EIGHTH: Document 45 (197/325) contains a report of the fax sent by the instructor
on 01/17/2020 to the attention of the claimant, being the number to which it is sent coincident
with that of the establishment open to the public *** ESTABLISHMENT.1 with 7 pages. In the
written (192/325 document 45) means “informative note attached using in your shipment,
in addition to postal mail, the same fax medium, which you have used in your writings
addressed to this instructor dated 01/13 and 14/2020”. In the letter, it also indicates that “It
has tried to guarantee the defendant's right to defense and avoid carrying out
administrative actions after the deadline", "requesting double confirmation of receipt of
the proceedings issued by registered postal mail and by email. Likewise, it
give extensive details and explanations of the incidents and procedures of the procedure in
up to seven points. The claimant adds that the same letter is sent to her by post.
The claimant learned that this fax was sent on 01/17/200, when she attended the hearing of
01/21/2020 (document 50, 206/325) and thus appears the declaration of the instructor that "no
he was warned that the fax from which he received the two writings from the claimant was public”, and
The claimant indicates that "both in the letter sent to the instructor and in this act
reiterated being informed by postal mail as the only means of communication” The

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/22

claimant appeared on 01/22/2020
  in the establishment open to the public
*** ESTABLISHMENT.1 to pick up the fax, proving the delivery of the document with a copy
invoice (doc 3).

NINTH: Dated 1/30/2020, the file contains "personal notification diligence"
communicating the suspension of the procedure due to the start of the notification process of recusal
to the claimant through 2 classmates, ***PUESTO.3 from the school and another teacher,
document 70 (11 and 266/325). The diligence contains the data of the claimant, DNI and NRP,
the act that is contained on 01/29/2020 of suspension of the procedure, number of
file, by challenge, and for the record according to articles 40 and 41 of the LPCAP and
31 of the RRD Officials AGE.

  The same circumstances exist with respect to the notification of the resolution of
02/02/2020 of the challenge, produced on 02/4/2020, document 74, making the
“Personal notification procedure” in a document signed by the parties on 02/04/2020,
containing similar extremes in the document. (281/325).

TENTH: Finally, the resolution of the file has been notified to the claimant at
through two public employees that she mentions, classmates in the new course and new
work center, on 09/23/2020. On this occasion it indicates that the
notification at his home address and provides a copy of two documents: notification and
diligence of personal notification in which DNI, NRP and file number are contained
and the act that is notified.

ELEVENTH: Different procedures after or before the claimant have been
practiced exclusively at the postal address indicated by the claimant.

    FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the *** POSITION.3a of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP) in its article 13 indicates: "Those who, in accordance with the
article 3, have the capacity to act before the Public Administrations, are holders, in
their relations with them, of the following rights:

h) To the protection of personal data, and in particular to the security and
confidentiality of the data contained in the files, systems and applications of the
Public administrations."

As rights of public employees, Law 7/2007 of 12/04, of the Basic Statute of the
public employee in article 14, individual rights, establishes that "employees
public have the following rights of an individual nature in correspondence with the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/22

legal nature of your service relationship:

h) To respect their privacy, sexual orientation, self-image and dignity at work,
especially against sexual harassment and for reasons of sex, moral and labor.”

Article 4.1 and 2 of the RGPD defines:

“1) “personal data”: any information about an identified or identifiable natural person
("the interested"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person whose identity
can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as
for example a name, an identification number, location data, an identifier
online or one or more elements of the physical, physiological, genetic,
psychological, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or
destruction;"

The RGPD in accordance with article 1.2 indicates that it “protects the rights and freedoms
rights of natural persons and, in particular, their right to the protection of
personal information."
The right to data protection is not unlimited. The Constitutional Court has declared,
in its Judgment 292/2000, of 11/30, regarding the fundamental right to protection of
data, “that the right to data protection is not unlimited, and although the Constitution does not
expressly impose specific limits, nor refer to the Public Powers for their
determination as it has done with other fundamental rights, there is no doubt that they have
to find them in the remaining fundamental rights and constitutional legal goods
protected, as required by the principle of unity of the Constitution”.

In view of this, the legislator has created a system in which the right to data protection
acts of a personal nature yields in those cases in which the legislator himself (constitutional
or ordinary) has considered the existence of reasoned and well-founded motives that justify
that the need to process the data, incorporating said assumptions into the rules of,
at least, the same range as the one that regulates the protected matter.

As stated in the reiterated jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court (for all, STC
186/2000, of 10/07, citing many others) "the right to privacy is not absolute,
as none of the fundamental rights is, being able to cede before cons-
institutionally relevant, provided that the cut that it will experience is revealed
as necessary to achieve the legitimate purpose intended, proportionate to achieve it and, in all
case, be respectful of the essential content of the right".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/22

The limitation of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data must be the
strictly necessary. This implies that if the achievement of the intended goals can
be carried out without processing personal data, this route will be preferable and will mean that it is not
necessary to carry out any data processing. Valued that collection,
storage and use of data is necessary, which constitutes per se a limitation of the
right to data protection, must also comply with the regulations in question. It
It therefore requires, first of all, to analyze and ensure that the collection and use of data is
necessary for the established or intended purpose and, if so, that it be proportional.

Necessity is a fundamental principle when assessing the restriction of fundamental rights.
fundamental, such as the right to the protection of personal data. On the principle of ne-
cessation of treatment of personal data it should be said that any treatment
of data implies per se and from the beginning, the restriction of the fundamental right, when the
collection and disposal of the same by the person in charge who is going to operate with it.
According to case law, due to the role that the processing of personal data plays
for a series of fundamental rights, the limitation of the fundamental right to pro-
Protection of personal data must be strictly necessary.

Regarding proportionality, the Constitutional Court has indicated in the Judgment
207/1996 that it is "a common and constant requirement for the constitutionality of
any restrictive measure of fundamental rights, including those that involve a
interference in the rights to physical integrity and privacy, and more particularly of the
restrictive measures of fundamental rights adopted in the course of a criminal proceeding
is determined by strict observance of the principle of proportionality.”

In this sense, we have highlighted that, in order to verify whether a restrictive measure of a
fundamental right exceeds the judgment of proportionality, it is necessary to verify if it complies
the following three requirements or conditions: "if such a measure is likely to achieve the
proposed objective (judgment of suitability); if, in addition, it is necessary, in the sense that it does not
there is another more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with equal effectiveness
(judgment of necessity); and, finally, if it is weighted or balanced, because it is derived from
it more benefits or advantages for the general interest than damages on other goods or
conflicting values (judgment of proportionality in the strict sense)”.

In this way, if said purpose could be achieved by carrying out an activity
different from the aforementioned treatment, without said purpose being altered or harmed, should
opt for this last activity, given that the processing of personal data
supposes, as established by our Constitutional Court, in Judgment 292/2000, of
30/11, a limitation of the right of the person to dispose of the information referring to the
same.”

On the other hand, it is necessary to evaluate compliance with proportionality and legitimacy,
taking into account the risks for the protection of rights and freedoms
of people and especially if the ends pursued can be achieved
or not in a less intrusive way.

III

The claimed party is charged with an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, which indicates:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/22

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability and severity
variables for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the processor.
party of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee
a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience

permanent treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a

fast in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures

technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken
the risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence of the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data, con-
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to said data.
cough.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and having
access to personal data can only process said data following instructions from the person in charge.
saber, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the Union or of the States
members."
Recital 74 of the RGPD says that it indicates: "The responsibility must be established
of the person in charge of the treatment for any treatment of personal data carried out by
himself or on his own. In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply measures
timely and effective and must be able to demonstrate compliance of the trading activities
treatment with this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures
must take into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well
as the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” (The underlining is from
the AEPD)
In this case, the treatment is related to the series of documents that make up the
administrative acts of the disciplinary file opened to the claimant. The data is the
referring to the person of the claimant with the addition of the information that was
manifest in:

-In the documents of the different notification proceedings delivered to the claimant by
part of *** POSITION.3 and another public employee. In addition to the review of the
notified, information that he was an educational disciplinary, the date for
appear, or the specific procedure to which he referred, suspension ... statement, etc.

-The document sent by fax from the instructor addressed to the claimed on 01/17/2020 to a
establishment open to the public, and its associated content. This shipment is made to
margin of the circuit planned for the notification of the acts that took place in the first
diligence with the instructor.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/22

The 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (LPACAP), establishes in articles 41 and 42:

"1. The notifications will preferably be made by electronic means and, in all
case, when the interested party is obliged to receive them by this means.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrations may make notifications by means of
non-electronic in the following cases:

a) When the notification is made on the occasion of the spontaneous appearance of the
interested party or his representative at the registration assistance offices and request
communication or personal notification at that time.

b) When, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the administrative action, it is necessary
practice notification by direct delivery of a public employee of the Administration
notifier.

Regardless of the means used, notifications will be valid as long as
allow to have proof of its sending or making available, of the reception or access by
the interested party or his representative, their dates and times, the full content, and the
reliable identity of the sender and recipient thereof. The accreditation of the
notification made will be incorporated into the file.

Interested parties who are not required to receive electronic notifications may
decide and communicate at any time to the Public Administration, through the
standardized models that are established for this purpose, that the successive notifications
practice or stop practicing by electronic means.

By regulation, the Administrations may establish the obligation to practice
electronically notifications for certain procedures and for certain
groups of natural persons who, due to their economic, technical,
professional dedication or other reasons, it is accredited that they have access and availability
of the necessary electronic means.

Additionally, the interested party may identify an electronic device and/or an address
of electronic mail that will serve for the sending of the notices regulated in this article,
but not for notification practice.

2. In no case will the following notifications be made by electronic means:

a) Those in which the act to be notified is accompanied by elements that are not

capable of conversion into electronic format.

b) Those that contain means of payment in favor of the obligors, such as checks.

3. In the procedures initiated at the request of the interested party, the notification will be made
by the means indicated for that purpose. This notification will be electronic in the cases where
which there is an obligation to relate in this way with the Administration.

When it is not possible to make the notification in accordance with what is indicated in the request,
It will be carried out in any suitable place for that purpose, and by any means that allows to have
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/22

proof of receipt by the interested party or his representative, as well as the date,
identity and content of the notified act.

4. In the procedures initiated ex officio, for the sole purpose of their initiation, the
Public Administrations may collect, by consulting the databases of the
National Institute of Statistics, the data on the domicile of the interested party collected in the
Municipal Register, sent by the Local Entities in application of the provisions of the Law
7/1985, of April 2, regulating the Bases of the Local Regime.

5. When the interested party or his representative rejects the notification of an action
administrative, it will be recorded in the file, specifying the circumstances of the
notification attempt and the means, considering the procedure completed and following the
process.

6. Regardless of whether the notification is made on paper or by electronic means,
the Public Administrations will send a notice to the electronic device and/or to the address
email of the interested party that he has communicated, informing him of the implementation
provision of a notification in the electronic headquarters of the Administration or Organization
corresponding or in the unique enabled electronic address. The lack of practice of this
notice will not prevent the notice from being considered fully valid.

7. When the interested party is notified by different channels, the date of

notification of the one that occurred first.

“Article 42. Practice of notifications on paper

1. All notifications that are made on paper must be made available
of the interested party in the electronic headquarters of the Administration or Acting Body so that
You can access their content on a voluntary basis.

2. When the notification is made at the domicile of the interested party, if there is no
present at the time of delivery of the notice, may take charge of the same
Any person over the age of fourteen who is at the address and records
his identity. If no one took care of the notification, this circumstance will be recorded.
on the record, along with the day and time service was attempted, I intend to have it served.
will be repeated only once and at a different time within the following three days. In case
that the first notification attempt has been made before fifteen hours, the
second attempt must be made after fifteen hours and vice versa, leaving in all
case at least a margin of difference of three hours between both notification attempts.
If the second attempt is also unsuccessful, proceed as provided in the
article 44.

3. When the interested party accesses the content of the notification in electronic headquarters,
will offer the possibility that the rest of the notifications can be made through
electronic media.

It will analyze whether there was a need and proportionality in data processing
related to the notification procedure, called double confirmation by the
claimed, of acts and resolutions to the claimant, when some of them were notified
via post to the address of the claimant, also on paper, through officials, in
In this case, colleagues from two different work centers, according to the one claimed, guarantee the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/22

effectiveness, without further evaluating or taking into account the need. This, considering that other
Acts were notified at the postal address that the instructor requested of the claimant in a
first hearing.

They take into account not only that the claimant was notified on paper at her address
postal, but also the same notification was made in double entry, in the own
notification proceedings by designated employees, except in the agreement of
initiation and final resolution (the latter is unknown why). Added to this is shipping.
of a fax containing as a note, a letter from the instructor to the claimant several pages
referred to the procedure that remained a few days in the establishment to which
they sent.

Initially, the first dispatch of the agreement to initiate the procedure takes place at
through ***PUESTO.3 and another employee, colleagues from the center, where the claimant
provides services, not to the address of the affected, and the reason is not explained, but in process
successive, already with the personal address obtained, more notifications are produced to your
address and at the same time by said means. The resolution is also an exception in the
that according to the claimant. It is not sent to your designated address. Notifications are
start from the beginning by non-electronic means, by post through the
mail, on paper, where the effective delivery of the notification usually appears. does not occur
double shipment electronically and by post, there are only shipments to the address of the claimed and
through diligence of notification, or of this only.

Article 41.7 of the LPACAP mentions about notifications, two modalities, or channels,
in writing or by electronic means, and here both are given in writing. In the notification,
there is the term "double confirmation", referring to the claimed delivery by post and
through diligence in person when in others there was no such double shipment, only via
diligence in person.

Regarding these notifications, the respondent should have assessed the risks and purposes of the
treatment within the administrative procedure.

Regarding the necessity and proportionality of notification of administrative acts (not
all have been notified, for which an explanation would be useful) that the LPACAP indicates to
through public employees, in connection with the assurance of effectiveness in the
administrative action, “when necessary”. in this case, it follows that it looks like
necessary from the beginning, when previous investigative actions were carried out and
should have already entered a postal address for the referral of the agreement to start the
process. Instead, its apparent need has been reiterated at various times
of the same, although it is appreciated that some acts are notified by this means, others are not, the
Most are not reported by employees. In any case, there is no reason why certain acts
of notification, it is estimated that they serve to ensure effectiveness and others do not. The procedure is
starts on ***DATE.2, with an expected duration of nine months, so the
07/16/2020, should be resolved and notified to the claimant, except for suspension. About the
questions that arise regarding the proceedings of double notifications, postal to your
address and through public employees, colleagues from the two Institutes in which he has
been providing services during the substantiation of the procedure, they begin to
occur from ***DATE.1/2021, continuing on ***DATE.3, on 01/16 and 30/2020,
02/04/2020 and 09/23/2020 (six times). There is no danger of expiration of the procedure, and
It occurs as has been said in some communications, not in all.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/22

The need to ensure the effectiveness of the notification would not go through a prior
notification via post to the interested party, and another later, by the employees, because in that
efficiency consists in making sure that the notification occurs, with which it would not be
necessary prior to the affected. This efficacy arises from an early phrase of the
procedure when there is no evidence of any obstacle to the reception of the
notifications to the indicated address, and therefore there is no risk in the effectiveness of the
notifications, rejection of the same. However, the sending by said means of
double delivery even in the resolution that is produced exclusively by employees.
In addition, what the norm allows is the practice of notification, not the full knowledge and
detail of it, and in various stages, as happens when knowing the phase, the act, the
NRP and DNI.

In sending the fax, it is also not a notification through an employee but using a
unusual means of communication, not arranged or established by the claimant, and
that gave rise to the disclosure of the data and part of the note to third parties
sent by the instructor, having sent the data and detailed information of
procedural issues to a third party who is not a party to the disciplinary proceeding.
To do this, the justification that she had sent two letters by fax and therefore
reciprocally enables is not justified, on the basis that there is no parity of obligations and
rights in the procedure, having fixed the ends and means the administration
claimed.

In addition, the claimant sent them and received them at the same time that she received them in her
address the instructor's submissions.

Within a disciplinary procedure, not only does the principle of respect for
rights of those affected in obtaining and collecting data and action, but must
analyze what data is necessary and proportional for the processing of the procedure,
including those strictly necessary, and minimizing as far as possible their
handling and management.

In this case, it is also appreciated that it was sought that the instructor knew with
quickly if the act had been received.

The manifestations of ***PUESTO.2, instructor of the disciplinary procedure of the
claimant to justify that third parties have participated in the notifications to the claimed party,
in this case public employees cannot prosper to consider non-compliance with the
obligations established in article 32, which starts from the risks of treatment and
implementation of treatment measures to ensure confidentiality and security
of the data. In this case, although officials are the ones who notify the acts, such as
collaborators in aiding notification, in addition to being excessive in terms of the purpose
of the notification itself, said use exceeds that purpose, by repeatedly containing the literal
informative of the acts that are notified. It should be noted that the responsibility does not lie
entirely on the instructor. given that the initiation agreement or resolution is not a
their act, but of the body that signs the same and is notified by the entity with competence
in notifications within the body. This happens repeatedly and despite the warning of
the claimant.

It is considered that there is no adequate protocol that indicates and assesses the efficacy and need
in the way of notifying sanctioning actions that consider the risks, the
rights, the way to carry it out, and the dignity of the accused in this case, when notified
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/22

both the initiation agreement and resolution and other acts through peers without
necessity and disclosing facts that are neither necessary nor proportional to the purpose, even
by sending a fax to a public establishment.

IV

The second infraction that is imputed is that of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, which indicates:

The personal data will be:

“processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality””

Connected with the duty of confidentiality provided for in the LOPDGDD, its article 5
indicates:

Those responsible and in charge of data processing, as well as all the people who
intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of confidentiality to which
refers to article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the

duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even when
the relationship of the obligor with the person responsible or in charge of the treatment had ended.

In the first place, there has been an unnecessary, proportional use of double notification,
in up to six administrative actions that are not related to the effectiveness of the
shipments.

The notification system has not been balanced giving occasion to third parties in charge
of the notification, colleagues from two institutes knew not only that he was being followed
disciplinary file, they also access data that is not precise or necessary for the
purpose, due to the lack of protocol or measures to conveniently execute the procedures.
The systematic sending of, for example, a final resolution directly by hand delivery
of two companions in their new destination, instead of proceeding in reverse, notifying
firstly to the indicated address, it can suppose not only an interference in its
privacy, but an impairment of the dignity of the subject to the procedure, when it is not
accredits the imperative need to notify by this means.

Regarding the fax, it has been made known to third parties, by sending a fax without really knowing
what place it was, nor having been arranged that form of shipment.

On the data request to the Health Management, the instructor motivates the request, and the
request can be made, when it comes to contrasting and verifying what was provided by the claimant,
within the powers that the instructor has in the procedure, to verify the facts
that is of interest to accredit, being able, however, to have further minimized the request, and the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/22

information. For the rest, in this aspect, it is not considered that there are reasons to
understand that with said request violates the regulations.

v

Article 83.4 of the RGPD indicates: “Infringements of the following provisions will be sanctioned
subject to administrative fines of EUR 10,000,000 in accordance with paragraph 2
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 2% maximum
mo of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11, 25 to 39,
42 and 43;”

While article 83.5 of the RGPD indicates:

"5. The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the paragraph
2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for consent
pursuant to articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”
The prescriptions of the infractions are contained in:
Article 73 of the LOPDGDD:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment, in the
terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
Article 72 of the LOPDGDD:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established in
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

SAW

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have all the si-
following corrective powers indicated below:
b) address a warning to any data controller or processor when the operations
treatment rations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/22

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under article
58, paragraph 2, each Member State may establish rules on whether it is possible, and in what
measure, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established
in that Member State."
The Spanish legal system has chosen not to penalize public entities with a fine.
public, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDDGG: “1. The regimen
established in this article will be applicable to the treatments that are res-
responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 commit any
one of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning the
themselves with warning. The resolution will also establish the appropriate measures
adopt to stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had occurred.
task.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
hierarchically dependent, where appropriate, and those affected who had the condition of interest
sad, in your case.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that

gan in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of
the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under the
ro of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the entities
from section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”
Once the infraction is confirmed, the adoption of adequate measures is agreed, to adjust its
action to the regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the provisions of the
cited article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

It is noted that failure to meet the requirements of this body may be considered
as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD, and may motivate
such conduct the opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,
the *** POSITION.3a of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SEND a warning to the EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT OFFICE of the
JUNTA DE EXTREMADURA, with NIF S0611001I, for an infraction of article 32 and another

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/22

of 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with articles 83.4 a) and 83.5.a) of the RGPD,
classified as serious and very serious in articles 73.f) and 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: ORDER the COUNCIL OF EDUCATION AND EMPLOYMENT of the BOARD OF
EXTREMADURA, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that in
within two months, document a common and unique document for the aspects of
notifications on paper and through employees considering the type of procedure, the
justified necessity and proportionality in relation to effectiveness, and the risks and rights
of those affected, with special reference to disciplinary procedures

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND
EMPLOYMENT of the JUNTA DE EXTREMADURA.

FOURTH:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution
It will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
***PUESTO.3a of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month to
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or appeal directly
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the High Court
National, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification of
this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
*** POSITION 3a of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-231221

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

