
Report on the work of the EDPB for 2021.
Summary of the EDPB's work report for 2021.
Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency Zdravko Vukić participated in the meeting of the European Data Protection Board held on October 12, 2022 in Brussels.
The EDPB has adopted a list of aspects in national procedural law that it wants harmonized at EU level to facilitate the implementation of the GDPR. This "wish list" is one of the key actions outlined in the EDPB's Vienna Declaration on Cooperation in Implementation. The list was sent to the European Commission for consideration.
EDPB President Andrea Jelinek said: “The EDPB has taken important steps to promote effective cooperation with regard to the strong and swift implementation of the GDPR. We have identified some barriers beyond our scope that may require legislative initiative. The current diversity of national procedures and practices has a detrimental impact on cooperation between data protection authorities."
The list, among other things, deals with the status and rights of parties in administrative proceedings; procedural deadlines; requests for acceptance or rejection of complaints; investigative powers of data protection authorities; and the practical implementation of the cooperation procedure.
Furthermore, the EDPB adopted an opinion on the approval of the Europrivacy certification criteria submitted by the Luxembourg data protection authority. This opinion marks the approval of the first European Data Protection Seal by the EDPB in accordance with Art. 42 (5) of the GDPR.
The Europrivacy certification mechanism is a general scheme that targets a wide range of different processing operations carried out by controllers and processors from different sectors. The scheme includes specific criteria that make it  applicable to specific processing operations or sectors of activity.
This approval is another step towards greater GDPR compliance. Certification under the seal of data protection is valid in all EU member states. It enables different controllers and processors in different countries to achieve the same level of compliance for similar processing operations.
Finally, the EDPB adopted a statement on the digital euro. In its statement, the EDPB reiterates the importance of ensuring privacy and data protection in accordance with the principle of privacy by design and by default.
The EDPB warns against the use of systematic validation and monitoring of all digital euro transactions. In this regard, the EDPB recommends that the digital euro be available both online and offline and that daily transactions be completely anonymous. Finally, the EDPB calls on the European Central Bank and the European Commission to step up the public debate on the digital euro project to ensure that it meets the highest standards of privacy and data protection.
