
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    03/22/2019
                                Facebook handles user data irresponsibly!©
                            edar / pixabay.com According to the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann that Facebook does not take the protection of user data entrusted to it seriously and does not live up to its responsibility.
"It is frightening and at the same time enlightening," said the state representative, "that a global company like Facebook has evidently at least grossly negligently disregarded common safety standards and has ignored them for years. The fact that a routine check has allegedly only revealed this now indicates serious deficits in the internal structures and processes. But it also shows that, despite all the lip service, Facebook is completely insensitive to user privacy."
“Social networks thrive on users sharing personal data or disclosing it to the public. However, they also have their private areas in which data is only made accessible to certain people or where communication is deliberately intended to remain confidential, for example in personal communication via Facebook Messenger. However, the decision must lie with the users. Apparently, access to such data was also possible for tens of thousands of Facebook employees. There have probably been millions of inquiries about the corresponding data elements and data may have been passed on without authorization - that's a scandal!" said the data protection officer. "Facebook continues to fail in its responsibilities! This is all the more true as the Facebook access data can in many cases also be used to register on other platforms. Misuse can therefore have far-reaching consequences.”
Facebook has obviously not drawn any conclusions from the events in the Cambridge Analytica case, in which external software developers were able to access millions of data sets in a largely uncontrolled manner. The processes at Facebook must be made transparent in order to seriously protect data protection and data security. “Privacy is not in good hands on Facebook! Users should consider this when deciding whether and to what extent they entrust their data to Facebook.”
The state representative, who is also chairing the data protection conference this year, will address the renewed disregard for data protection in the circles of the German supervisory authorities and suggest that the European data protection committee deal with it. It must be clarified whether Facebook violated the reporting requirements under the General Data Protection Regulation in this case, since the problem had apparently been known for some time. In addition, a fine procedure is to be examined by the Irish data protection supervisory authority, which is responsible for Facebook in Europe.
                                return
                            



