

Bonn/Berlin, July 11, 2018


Press release 07/2018


  6th Activity Report on Freedom of Information: Citizens' interest in administrative information continues to grow!
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Andrea Voßhoff presented her 6th activity report on freedom of information for the years 2016 and 2017 today.

In these two years, the federal authorities received a total of 21,805 requests for access to official information under the Federal Freedom of Information Act. This significantly exceeded the figures for 2014/2015 (18,139 applications back then). The BfDI then received a total of 790 submissions in the reporting period, of which 702 were asked to mediate in IFG applications. In the other cases, general information on the IFG was given.
Andrea Voßhoff: The renewed increase in IFG applications clearly shows that the right to access information has now become the “toolbox” of responsible citizens in a society based on openness, discourse and participation. The state is no longer the inaccessible stronghold in which administrative information remains "under lock and key".
The BfDI still sees potential for improvement in the area of environmental information and consumer information. The Environmental Information Act (UIG) and Consumer Information Act (VIG) apply to this. So far, no ombudsman function has been provided for in this. Vosshoff: Once again, I call on the legislator to evaluate the UIG and VIG accordingly so that my ombudsman, advisory and control function will also be available to citizens who need help accessing environmental or consumer information in the future.
About the activity report
The 6th activity report on freedom of information for the years 2016 and 2017 gives an overview of the development of the right to freedom of information, the case law on the IFG and the activities of the BfDI. The report is available on the website of the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information at www.informationsfreiheit.bund.de and, like other information material, can be requested free of charge from the following address:
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Husarenstraße 30, 53117 Bonn, email poststelle@bfdi.bund.de.

Attachment to the BfDI press release for the 6th activity report on freedom of information Selected topics
Attachment to the BfDI press release on the presentation of the 6th activity report on freedom of information (PDF, 88KB, file is not barrier-free)

6th activity report for the years 2016-2017
6th Activity Report on Freedom of Information 2016 - 2017




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











