1/7

 File No.: EXP202207942

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Given the lack of communication to this Agency of the protection delegate
of data (DPD) by the CITY COUNCIL OF ALGETE with NIF P2800900I (in
forward, the City Council), the General Sub-directorate of Promotion and Authorizations of
This Agency sent you two notifications recalling the obligation to designate a
DPD and communicate it to the control authority, in accordance with article 37 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR), and granting a period of ten days for
made the mandatory communication, without receiving a response to any of the
the two notifications. In the same letter, it was warned that non-compliance
could give rise to the exercise of the investigative and sanctioning powers of
this Agency.

SECOND: On June 24, 2022, for the purposes provided in article 47 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the General Subdirectorate
of Promotion and Authorizations transferred the documentation in that
Subdirectorate to the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection. Specifically, it
Attach the following documentation:

- First notification sent by SIR on February 17, 2022 with registration number
of departure O00007128s2200010977 and confirmation of receipt on the 18th of
February.
- Second notification sent by SIR on April 26, 2022 with registration number
of departure REGAGE22s00014929642 and confirmation of receipt on April 27.

THIRD: In view of the facts stated, on July 18, 2022,
query, with negative result, the list of data protection delegates
communicated to the AEPD using the NIF of the
City hall.

FOURTH: On July 20, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 37 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.5 of the GDPR Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR).

FIFTH: The aforementioned initiation agreement was collected by the person in charge on the 21st of
July 2022, as stated in the Notific@ certificate that is in the file.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

SIXTH: Dated August 10, 2022 and entry registration number
REGAGE22e00034849313, the City Council presents a written statement in which
states, in summary, that they are trying to solve the lack of DPD since the 28th of
September 2021. For this, it was decided to tender a service contract that is
pending a mandatory report from May 9, 2022 and that they will communicate the
Designation of the contracted external DPO, once the contract is awarded.

SEVENTH: On September 9, 2022, a proposed resolution was formulated
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
imposed on the City Council, for an infringement of Article 37 of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a warning sanction, as well as ordering the
City Council accredit to this body, within a month, the appointment
from D.P.D.

Likewise, the procedure was revealed so that within ten days
could allege whatever he considered in his defense and present the documents and
information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with article 89.2 of the
LPACAP.

EIGHTH: On October 5, 2022, the City Council presents a written
allegations in which it informs this Agency of the actions carried out from the
allegations to the initiation agreement presented on August 10, 2022, stating that
the contract could be formalized in the second week of November.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The notifications indicated in the first and second records were
collected by the City Council, without receiving any response.

SECOND: The list of delegates of
protection of data communicated to the AEPD using as search criteria the
NIF of the City Hall.

THIRD: Notification of the agreement to start this procedure
disciplinary action was carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 43 of the LPACAP.

FOURTH: The City Council has presented the allegations to the agreement to start this
disciplinary procedure included in the sixth antecedent.

FIFTH: After notification of the proposed resolution, the City Council has
presented the allegations that are included in the eighth precedent.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Arguments to the procedure

With regard to the allegations presented by the City Council, collected in
the sixth and eighth antecedents, the following should be noted.

The notifications made by the General Subdirectorate of Promotion and
Authorizations from this Agency, recalling the obligation to designate a DPO and
communicate it to the control authority, in accordance with article 37 of the GDPR, and in the
that a period of ten days was granted to make the mandatory communication,
they were not answered. Finally, it was agreed to start the disciplinary procedure
on July 20, 2022.

Likewise, apart from the aforementioned reminders, it should be noted that the obligation of the
appointment of the DPD by the City Council arose from the effective application
of the GDPR that occurred on May 25, 2018, as stipulated in its article
99, marking the end of a two-year adaptation period after its entry
effective May 25, 2016.

Therefore, it cannot be taken into consideration that the procedures for the
appointment of the DPO in 2021, prior to the notifications made by
this Agency, since the City Council should have foreseen its appointment
from the effective application of the GDPR. In the same way, that the appointment
could be carried out during the investigation of this procedure or later, not
affects the existence of proven facts constituting an infringement.

Finally, as at the date of issuance of this resolution, no
Once the DPD has been appointed, the order provided for in the
resolution proposal requiring the City Council to accredit
said appointment within the stipulated period.

II

breached obligation

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that at
City Council corresponds to it, following the principle of proactive responsibility,
meet the obligations detailed in the GDPR, including the appointment of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

a data protection officer, make their contact details public and
communicate it to the AEPD.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Proven facts" section are considered
constituting an infraction, attributable to the City Council, for violation of article
37 of the GDPR, which provides the following in its sections 1 and 7 respectively:

"1. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will designate a delegate of

data protection provided that:

a) the treatment is carried out by a public authority or body, except those
courts acting in the exercise of their judicial function;
(…)
7. The person in charge or the person in charge of treatment will publish the data of

contact
of the data protection delegate and will communicate them to the control authority.”

Regarding the appointment of the data protection officer, sections 3 and 5 of the
Article 37 of the GDPR state that:

"3. When the controller or processor is an authority or
public body, a single data protection officer may be appointed to
several of these authorities or bodies, taking into account their structure
organization and size.

(…)
5. The data protection officer may be part of the staff of the
controller or processor or perform their duties within the framework
of a service contract.

For its part, the LOPDGDD dedicates article 34 to the “Appointment of a delegate of
data protection”, precept that provides:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment must designate a
data protection officer in the cases provided for in article 37.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (...)

3. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment will communicate within the period of
ten days to the Spanish Data Protection Agency or, where appropriate, to the
regional data protection authorities, designations, appointments and
dismissals of the data protection delegates both in the cases in which
find themselves bound to their designation as in the case in which it is voluntary”.

Classification and classification of the offense

IV.

Article 83.5 b) of the GDPR considers that the infringement of "the obligations of the
responsible and of the person in charge according to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43”, it is
punishable, in accordance with section 4 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned
Regulation, "with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the one with the highest value”.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

"Infringements are the acts and conducts referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after two years and is classified as serious, in accordance with article 73 of the
LOPDGDD that stipulates the following:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(...)
v) Failure to comply with the obligation to designate a data protection delegate
data when their appointment is required in accordance with article 37 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and article 34 of this organic law.”

V

sanction imputed

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR, in its section 7, establishes the following:

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applied to the treatments

for which they are responsible or in charge:

(…)
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the

autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

(…)
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
commit any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the competent data protection authority will issue
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
likewise, the measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct it.
the effects of the offense committed.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body to which it depends hierarchically, if applicable, and to those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if applicable.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the authority of
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and the
The sanctions to be applied will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary regime.
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is accredited
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions to which they refer
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.”

SAW

adoption of measures

This Agency agrees to impose on the controller the adoption of appropriate measures
to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each authority of
control may “order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period…”.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with applicable law,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF ALGETE, with NIF P2800900I, for a
infringement of Article 37 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF ALGETE, with NIF P2800900I, to
that within a month they accredit before this body the appointment of DPD, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 37 of the GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF ALGETE.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

ROOM:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

