Henrik Hololei
Director-General
Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport
European Commission

Dear Director-General Hololei,

Brussels, 5 June 2019
Ref: Ares(2019)1766235

SH-941-2019

I  refer  to  your  letter  of 18 March 2019 in  which  you invite the  European  Data  Protection  Board
members to issue  a  formal opinion on  the  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  with  regard  to  the
provision of EU-wide Cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems, adopted on 13 March 2019.

As  you  noted,  the  Commission  invited  the  Board  members  to  express  their  views on  the  Draft
Commission Delegated Regulation with regard to the provision of EU-wide Cooperative Intelligent
Transport Systems in parallel with the inter-service consultation phase. An opportunity the Board
appreciated, bearing in mind connected vehicles is part of the ongoing work program of the Board.

The Board refers to the comments previously provided, in accordance with article 70(1)(b) GDPR, on
the draft delegated regulation’s provisions and the revised wording of the now adopted delegated
regulation, in particular with regard to data protection. The Board further takes note of the position
expressed  by  the  European  Data  Protection  Supervisor  regarding  article  42(1)  of  Regulation
2018/1725 in this context. In light of the above, the Board will not be issuing a further opinion at this
stage.

The Board points out that a number of essential issues remain unresolved in this context, in particular
the  clear  identification  of  the  data  controllers  involved  in  the C-ITS  services,  the  necessity  of
conducting the  Data Protection  Impact  Assessment and  the  application of  the  data  protection  by
design and by default to the C-ITS services.

For the sake of clarity, the legal basis of processing, re-use of data for other purposes, privacy by
default and by design, data minimization as well as security are among the topics the Board is looking
into in its ongoing work on the topic of connected vehicles, taking into consideration the wider legal

framework and in particular to Directive 2010/40/EU. The Board will inform the Commission of any
guidelines or recommendations it may issue on the subject of connected vehicles in future.

Finally, should the Commission wish to consult the European Data Protection Board in the future,
potentially with regard to a future revision of Directive 2010/40/EU, do not hesitate to do so at an
early stage of the process.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

