1/7

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00150/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: BARCELONA CITY COUNCIL (*hereinafter, the claimant) with
On March 11, 2019, he filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, motivated by the processing of data carried out through
cameras of a video surveillance system whose owner is A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
forward the one claimed) installed in ***ADDRESS.1.

Inspection Act is sent (Barcelona City Council) with number LA-71915
where the Agents of the authority displaced to the property located in
***ADDRESS.1 proceed to verify various complaints originating from it, by
be a property where presumably activities of a nature are carried out
sexual.

Documentary evidence is provided (Photographs Annex I) that allow verifying the
installation of video-surveillance cameras inside the rooms of the
property, without just cause.

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, in accordance with the evidence
that is available at this procedural moment, the Data Inspection of this
Spanish Agency for Data Protection considers that the processing of personal data
personal information that is carried out by the accused through the cameras to which
refers to the complaint, does not meet the conditions imposed by the regulations on
data protection, so it is appropriate to open this procedure
sanctioning

THIRD: On April 8, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: When the database of this organization was consulted on 07/16/19,
notes that no allegation has been made to the "facts" transferred by this
Agency.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 03/11/19, this Agency received a claim from the City Council
of Barcelona, by means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

“Installation of video-surveillance cameras inside a building where
sexual activities are carried out, lacking an informative poster” (Denunciation Act
attached).

Second. It is identified as the main responsible for the installation of the system
Mr. A.A.A., with DNI ***NIF.1.

Third. Documentary evidence is provided (Photographs Annex I) that allow verifying the
installation of two video-surveillance cameras inside the building, without cause
justified.

-Camera 1 installed at the entrance of the property, so that it captures the area

corridor, controlling the entrances/exits of the building.

-Camera 2, located in the dining area, viewing an area of

recreation of the employees of the property.

Fourth. There is no informative poster in the denounced dwelling, nor has anyone been informed.
the employees of the same about their rights within the framework of the data protection of
personal character.

Fifth. The establishment does not have a form available to customers who
may require it to exercise their rights within the framework of data protection.

Sixth. The defendant lacks any license to carry out activities in the
property, lacking civil liability insurance.

Seventh. According to a statement by the Acting Force, the property is intended for the
practice of sexual activities, counting from a total of three rooms (Act
LA71915-Barcelona City Council).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, it is known as a result of the Minutes (complaint) transferred to this
body by the City Council (Barcelona) on 03/11/19 of the existence of a
video-surveillance system inside a private home, being the same
installed inside the property, where the employees of the same develop their
professional activity.

3/7

The conduct described involves an infringement of the right to privacy of the
housemaids, who are permanently controlled in spaces
reserved without any justified cause.

With this type of device, "personal data is processed" by being able to
obtain the images of the employees, which also does not show that they have been
informed in any legal way, affecting areas reserved for your privacy
as evidenced by the fact that the cameras are inside the rooms
of the property.

Article 4 of the GDPR defines "personal data" as any information about
an identified or identifiable natural person ("the data subject"). and will be considered
identifiable natural person any person whose identity can be determined, directly or
indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a name,
an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or
various elements of the physical, physiological, genetic, psychic,
economic, cultural or social status of that person.

Article 5 section 1 letter c) RGPD provides: “Personal data

they will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

Video surveillance cameras are designed to control the security of the
property (vgr. against possible theft), but they are not designed to control the
employees, to the point of exercising control over aspects of their personal privacy.

Without prejudice to the "type" of activity carried out in the property, it does not admit
discussion the recognition and protection of the fundamental rights of
employees of the property, as is the case of their personal image and respect for the
leisure and/or recreation areas.

Article 18 CE (1978) provides: "The right to honor, to

personal and family intimacy and in one's own image”.

So that the conduct, apart from being reprehensible from the point of view
ethical, deserves an analysis from the point of view of administrative law
sanctioning, by affecting the personal data of the same, without just cause and without
no legal information about it.

The evidence provided by the State Security Forces and Bodies
displaced to the scene of the "facts" are overwhelming, in the sense that they point to
carrying out acts of sexual exploitation on the women of the home, not counting
with any activity license and affecting various fundamental rights, among
them the protection of personal data, by exercising control of their image
through the installed system.

The art. 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides: “The documents
formalized by officials who are recognized as authorities and in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

which, observing the corresponding legal requirements, collect the facts
verified by those will prove them unless proven otherwise”.

There is no evidence that there is an informative poster at the entrance of the property informing
that it is a video-monitored area, so that the capture of the
inputs/outputs of it.

Nor have the "employees" been informed of the purpose of the
treatment of your personal data, exercising control over them and
of people who enter the property, without just cause.

III

Article 58.1.a) and e) and 2.i) of the RGPD indicates:

1 Each supervisory authority will have all investigative powers

listed below:

a) order the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the person in charge or the person in charge, who provide any information
that it requires for the performance of its functions;

e) obtain from the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment access to all the data
personal and to all the information necessary for the exercise of their functions;

2. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case; (…)”

IV

In accordance with the evidence available in this
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the accused has proceeded to place
various cameras (two according to documentary evidence-Report Complaint Annex I) inside
of the property, with a purpose of excessive control, in spaces prohibited for this
type of devices.

Through them you can control the activity developed in the
property, controlling the employees of the same, who are video-monitored throughout
time, without respecting their rights in the matter.

5/7

Through this type of device you cannot deprive of rights
fundamental to the "employees" who carry out an activity in the property,
being controlled without just cause at their entrances/exits and in the free
relaxation inside it.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the

claimed, for violation of article 5 RGPD, previously outlined.

Article 83 section 5 of the RGPD provides the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the initial sanction, the following is taken into account:

 The installation of the cameras is in a reserved area (inside the
property) with a clear purpose of controlling the employees who
carry out their activity inside the property – art. 83.2 a) GDPR--.

 It is worth talking about intentionality in obtaining the images, since
It does not require further explanation that this type of device is not
designed for a control of reserved areas, without information
any has been provided to the employees of the home—art. 83.2
b) GDPR--.

It is taken into account when grading the sanction, that it is an individual, whose
level of income has not been able to be specified exactly, as well as the
absence of previous administrative infraction in the matter verified by this Agency,
Although the conduct described is considered serious enough to attempt against
essential rights of female employees, so that a sanction of a
without prejudice to immediately accrediting the adoption of those
measures that suppose an immediate cessation of the described infraction (eg withdrawal of the
camera/s).

This body assumes that the accused may have images
(personal data) in the recordings obtained from inside the property, which affect
to rights of third parties, who have not given their consent for it, nor have they been
informed of the purpose of the treatment, which justifies that together with the sanction
economic, the immediate elimination of the same must be accredited.

The foregoing justifies ordering the imposition of an economic sanction encrypted in
the amount of €20,000 (Twenty Thousand Euros), as they are devices that affect
essentially to the privacy of the employees who access the interior of the same,
disproportionately, with a clear purpose of surveillance, regardless of affecting

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

areas reserved for the privacy of these and without any information to the
regard.

IV

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2
d) it is established that each control authority may “order the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way
and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with
the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the
GDPR.

Article 72.1 a) LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides the following,

qualifies as very serious, the following behavior

  “The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

The foregoing, without prejudice to the fact that, as a result of this procedure,
requires the immediate removal of the device(s) in question, providing evidence
documentary (photograph with date and time) that accredits such extreme before this organism,
based on the provisions of art. 58.2 d) RGPD, as well as any other measure that is
deems appropriate to adapt the irregular situation to the regulations for the protection of
personal information.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Don A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article
5.1 c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a fine of €20,000
(Twenty Thousand Euros).

SECOND: REQUIRE the immediate removal of any type of safety device(s)
recording of the interior of the property, having to reliably prove before this
Agency the measure adopted, as well as proceed to the elimination of any image
that in his case he could keep in the recordings made, granting him the
period of ONE MONTH from the day following the notification of this act
administrative.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to Don A.A.A.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number

7/7

of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

