

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Business Company
UOOU-04463/20


The inspection was initiated on the basis of
19 complaints about sending commercial messages. It contained loan offers and
secure storage services and linked to the website of the controlled person. The inspection found that the subject
commercial messages were sent from freemail addresses that were established
to obviously fictitious persons. Websites or online stores on these
sites operated to which the commercial communications referred were up to date
sending commercial messages operated by a controlled person. The one in the frame
repeatedly stated in her statement that she did not send the commercial message and that she
someone is trying to do harm by doing so. The company Seznam.cz, at which
freemail addresses were registered, she said it was sending through
third party and that the accounts only served as recipients of any responses from
entities that received the spam. Even so, this is how email addresses are used
violation of the conditions of Seznam.cz. Therefore, these accounts have been blocked
for further possible use. During the inspection, the Authority then found that
the aforementioned website for whose benefit the subject matter was commercial
messages disseminated, they are no longer functional. The inspectors stated that i
despite the fact that the actual sender of commercial messages has not been identified, he is a spreader
of these commercial communications by the controlled person, as it was for his benefit
commercial messages are disseminated without the prior consent of the addressees. It was further
a violation of ยง 7 paragraph 4 lit. a), b) and c) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., since
the messages in question were not clearly and distinctly marked as commercial communications.
Nor did they contain an indication or designation of the person on whose behalf this communication was made
does, nor the option to unsubscribe from further sending. The controlled person filed
within the statutory period of objection to the control protocol. She stated here that she is not
disseminator of the commercial messages in question, and that someone wants to harm the company. The objections were forwarded
to the President of the Office for processing, who rejected them in their entirety. Outside
another stated that the controlled person's claim that someone is trying to harm him is not
backed by nothing. On the contrary, the Office registers other similar complaints against other companies,
which are connected by the same person of executive or the same registered office of the company and
it is thus a targeted promotion of the goods and services of both the inspected and others
similar companies. Administrative proceedings have been initiated in this matter.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2021 > Unsolicited business communications - 2nd half-year > Business companyView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



