1/4

Procedure No.: PS/00391/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before
V.B.GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L., by virtue of a claim filed by A.A.A. (in
hereinafter, the claimant) based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim filed by the claimant has an entry dated 6
June 2018 at the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against V.B.GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L. with NIF B91779694 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are the treatment of the image of your
five-year-old daughter in a fairground attraction without her consent.

Along with your written complaint, provide the following documentation:

 Claim presented for these facts, before the Arbitration Board of Consumption of

Andalusia, June 3, 2018.

 Copy of the photograph taken by a worker of V.B GRUPO DE

ATTRACTIONS S.L.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, as well as the facts and documents of which he has had
knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to
carrying out preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts
in question, in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), requiring V.B
GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L, with NIF B91779694, the following information:

 Clear specification of the causes that have motivated the incidence that has given

place to claim.

 Detail of the measures adopted by the person in charge to solve the incident
and to avoid the occurrence of new incidents such as the one exposed. To this
In this regard, you can obtain, through www.aepd.es, additional information on the
obligations, provided for in the data protection regulations, for those responsible
and treatment managers.

 If applicable, supporting documentation that, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 12 of the RGPD, the appropriate measures have been taken to facilitate the
affected the exercise of their rights under articles 15 to 22, including
full copy of the communications sent in response to the requests that
would have been made by the claimant.

On July 13 and October 8, 2018, V.B GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L, receives
letter from this Agency through which you are informed of the claim filed by
the claimant against said entity to proceed with its analysis, respond to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

claimant and within a month to inform this Agency of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

Despite this, there is no record in this Agency of a reply from V.B.GRUPO DE
ATRACCIONES S.L., to the aforementioned requirement, for which reason it is appropriate to admit the
this claim, without prejudice to what is determined in the course of processing.

THIRD: On December 13, 2018, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 6.1 a) of the RGPD, in relation to article 8.1 of the RGPD
by treating the image of a 5-year-old girl, without the consent of the person who holds her country
power, infringement typified in article 83.4 a) of the RGPD and qualified as serious in the
Article 73 a) of the LOPDGDD.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data in this procedure are considered proven facts the following,

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The treatment of the image of the five-year-old daughter of the claimant,
in a fairground attraction without your consent.

SECOND: V.B GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L, has not responded to the request for
information from the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, nor has it presented allegations
to the agreement to initiate this proceeding, despite the repeated transfer of the
request made by this Agency on July 13 and October 8, 2018.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in what
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to resolve this procedure.
II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
processing of personal data, specifically in section 1.a) it is indicated that
The processing of personal data will be understood as lawful if they gave their consent.

In this sense, and in application to the present case, where the right to
protection of the image of a minor under five years of age, note that article 8 of the RGPD
regulates the conditions applicable to the consent of the child in relation to the services
of the information society, indicating that:

“1- When article 6, section 1, letter a) is applied in relation to the offer
directly to children of services of the information society, the processing of data
personal property of a child shall be considered lawful when he or she is at least 16 years old. If the child
is under 16 years of age, such treatment will only be considered lawful if the consent
It was given or authorized by the holder of parental authority or guardianship over the child, and only to the extent
that was given or authorized.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

Member States may establish by law a lower age for such purposes,

provided that this is not less than 13 years.

2. The controller will make reasonable efforts to verify in such
cases in which the consent was given or authorized by the holder of parental authority or
guardianship over the child, taking into account the available technology.

3. Paragraph 1 shall not affect the general provisions of contract law
of the Member States, such as the rules relating to the validity, formation or effects of
contracts in relation to a child.”

Therefore, for the processing of the minor's personal data to be lawful
of five years that is the object of this case, the consent of the person who holds his title will be required.
parental authority or guardianship.

III

According to the evidence currently available,
It is considered that the known facts are constitutive of an infraction, attributable to the
claimed, for the processing of personal data, regulated in art. 6.1 a) of the RGPD, in
in relation to article 8.1 of the RGPD when treating the image of a 5-year-old girl, without the
consent of the person with parental authority.

IV

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

The art. 83.4 a) of the RGPD establishes that infractions that

affect:

“a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles

8,11,25 to 39, 42 and 43”.

v

In the present case, it is a situation that affects the claimant because

It deals with the right to protection of the image of a minor under five years of age.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €10,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.4 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.4, section a) of the RGPD, in its art.
58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what is indicated
in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction
A warning may be imposed by means of a fine. However, special attention must be paid
attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction, to its intentional nature, to
the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree of
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
of control has been aware of the infraction, to the fulfillment of measures
ordered against the person in charge or person in charge, adherence to codes of conduct and
any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

According to what was stated,

SAW

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- NOTICE V.B GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 58.2º letter b) RGPD, in relation to the complaint for violation of article 5.1 d) in
relation to articles 12 and 14 of the RGPD, typified as serious in article 83.5 of the
aforementioned Organic Law.

2.- REQUEST V.B GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L, so that within one month
from this act of notification:

-the adoption of all reasonable measures to ensure that the photographs taken
in their attraction they have the consent of their clients, and in the case of being
minors, who have the consent of those who hold their country
authority, in accordance with the provisions of art. 6.1 a) of the RGPD in relation to art. 8.1
of the GDPR.

3.- NOTIFY this Agreement to V.B GRUPO DE ATRACCIONES S.L.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
from the day following the notification of this resolution, or, directly appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the High Court
National, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

