 

 

 

 

 

            

Athens, 29-11-2018
 

 

 

            

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

Prot. No. C/EX/9616/29-11-2018
 

 

 

A P O F A S H A . 72/2018
 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met as a Department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at its headquarters on Wednesday 06.06.2018 at 10:00 a.m. upon his invitation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in its history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present. They were attended by the Deputy President, Georgios Batzalexis, who was disabled
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the President of the Authority, Constantinos Menoudakos, and the alternate members
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Panagiotis Rontogiannis, Evangelos Papakonstantinou, as rapporteur, and Grigorios
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tsolias, in replacement of regular members Antonios ymbonis, Konstantinos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lamprinoudakis and Charalampou Anthopoulos, respectively, who, although they were summoned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legally in writing, they did not attend due to obstruction. Present without the right to vote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was Evangelia Vassilopoulou, legal auditor, as assistant rapporteur and Irini
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative affairs department, as secretary.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With the no. prot. ADDPCH G/EI /1637/28-02-2017 document, o A (hereinafter
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"applicant") appeals to the Personal Data Protection Authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaining that X General Hospital, where he works as a nursing assistant,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"he published unnecessarily sensitive personal data without being asked
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consented, i.e. made public the medical opinion certifying his disability
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(K.E.P.A.) in the Service, in the Ministry of Interior and also in the Ministry of Health.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, the applicant in his above mentioned document to the Authority claims the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"on 25-11-2016 with no. I requested my first ... document from nursing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

address as a superior authority to allow me to continue working with a reduced
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hours by one (1) hour per day making use of my entitled special leave with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

earnings of six (6) working days in addition to my normal leave
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

converting them into hours for health reasons in continuation of no. first...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

previous decision of the administration which I however interrupted due to my absence from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the service in order to exercise my duties as President of the Prefectural Court
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department of ADEDY X, requesting a trade union license. The service, in violation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 10 par. 3 of the decree and article 4 of Law 2690/1999, did not respond
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

until today in my submitted request...." and concludes: "Because based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above sensitive personal data, which concern her, were flagrantly violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

my health, I beg you with your intervention so that it is stopped immediately or further
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

handling and processing thereof. In addition, as the specific issue is investigated and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as the corresponding administrative and disciplinary responsibilities are assigned". attached to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

said document, the appellant also sent a number of documents and reports to others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

competent services at its discretion, as well as its conclusion related to the case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 of the Citizen's Advocate (prot. no. 225574/23319/2017).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Then, with the under no. prot. ADPPH G/EI /1860/08.03.20187 supplementary document,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Administrative Support Section of the Directorate of Internal Affairs of the Headquarters
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Hellenic Police forwards to the Authority, also notifying the applicant,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the applicant's report to their service, attaching them to it accordingly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

documents. Finally, with the no. prot. G/EI /3840/15.05.2017 supplementary document, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The appellant filed before the Authority the response of the Administration of the 4th
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Health Region P to the Ministry of Health regarding the said report
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of A as an employee of the Ministry of Health to its administration.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority with no. prot. ADDPH C/EX/2041/13-03-2017 her document informed the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant as follows: "according to article 15 par. 3 of Law 3917/2011, the Authority has the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discretion to assess the priority of consideration of applications, questions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and complaints based on the importance and general interest of the issue. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

large number of cases and the insufficient staffing of the Authority do not allow,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unfortunately, the immediate response to your request."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Then, with the provision document No. APDPHX G/EI /2208/20.03.2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarifications, the Authority, in order to exercise the powers pursuant to Article 19 of Law 2472/1997
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

responsibilities, requested the Commander and the competent employees of the General
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Hospital X to send the Hospital's opinions on the complainants,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on the attached copy of no. prot. ADPPH G/EI /1637/28.02.2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appeal of A. with response of the above document, General Hospital X, through
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Head of the Human Resources Management department, with the no. first...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

(ADPPH G/EI /2563/30.03.2018) sent his opinions regarding the said
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint to the Authority, as well as the documents he had filed before o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant regarding the granting of a special permit to him.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing the rapporteur and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who was present without the right to vote and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after discussion of the case and before the conference and reception
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision, after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

1. Because the provisions of articles 2 par. b', 4 par. 1 and 7 par. 2 item. a' of n.
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997 determine the terms and conditions for legal processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of sensitive personal health-related data. The provisions of articles 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 3 and 13 par. 3 item b' of Law 3418/2005 (Code of Medical Ethics)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provide for the exceptional granting of medical certificates to a third party,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if the processing is necessary to safeguard his vital interest
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject or provided for by law of the interest of a third party, or if the subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has a legitimate interest and proves it, as well as the conditions for lifting the medical
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy. Because, further, article 11 par. 3 of Law 2472/1997 stipulates that if the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data is communicated to third parties, the subject is informed of the communication before
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from them.
  

 

 

2. Because, in the case under consideration, the appellant claims that they were violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sensitive personal data and specific health data with or without the need
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information and consent of publication in the Service of G.N. X, in the Ministry
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Internal Affairs but also at the Ministry of Health for its medical certification
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of disability (KE.PA.A.). And he asks the Authority how, with its intervention, it is stopped
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

immediately the further handling and processing of the above sensitive personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data and as the specific issue is investigated and the corresponding ones are attributed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

administrative and disciplinary responsibilities".
  

 

 

 

 

3. General Hospital X with its document dated 30.03.2018 and the documents attached to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(ADDPHX
 

G/EI /263/30.03.2018),
 

he answered
 

in the
 

under
 

No.
 

first
 

APDPX/G/EX/2208/20.03.2018 document for submission of opinions before the Authority regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the above appeal and the reasons for their notification of sensitive data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the applicant's personal data the following: "according to par. 4 of article 50
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

Law 3528/2007 ΄΄employees with a disability rate of fifty percent or more are entitled
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the service every calendar year six (6) working days paid leave
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in addition to their normal leave''. Reason for enactment of the provisions of article 50 N.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3528/2007, as can be seen from the introductory report of the law, there was the desire
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the legislator, as in the previous forms of the civil service code (N.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2683/99), to provide facilities to employees facing health problems.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Given the impossibility of recording in the relevant provision all the diseases and all the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of cases of employees with illnesses requiring services, there was many times the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

need to issue circular directives, such as for example the directive of the Ministry
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Internal with no. prot. DIDAD/F.53/712/7-11-2013, regarding employees who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they are entitled to a special leave with wages up to 22 working days a year. Also, respectively
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the past, in order to solve the social problem of particular concern
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sensitive group of employees, caused the no. 19/2003 legal opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Council of State, which was accepted by the Minister of Health and Welfare
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as well as by the Minister of Interior, Public Administration and Decentralization. Based
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the opinion this special permit should be granted to the beneficiaries after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

opinion of the primary health committee with which it will be certified
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the grounds that the condition from which they or one of their children suffers, is necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

periodical hospitalization, which takes place in a specific public or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

private
 

hospital as well as determining the time period for which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this hospitalization.
  

 

 

So in view of all this, given the will of our administration to serve
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the applicant for the special employee permit, but also given the non-express legislative
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provision for satisfying his request, we addressed the Ministry competently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Internal with a specific question. The mention of the applicant's illness prevented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exclusively at the service of the employee to deal effectively with it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his disease, a fact that could be the cause of a relevant interpretation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

circular to accept the request. It should be pointed out that no such reasoning exists
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

include it with no. first ... (attachment 3) previous document of his administration
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a hospital that had accepted a similar request from the employee, so it would not constitute
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the invocation of its reasoning is a legal justification.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is obvious that nothing could be concealed from the administration's point of view
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other expediency, aimed at insulting his personality, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

baselessly claims in his report the employee, obviously influenced by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rejection of the request for the granting of the permit.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 



 the specific case, the mention in a document of the hospital, addressed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

competent Ministry of the Interior, of the information on his state of health
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employee, recommends the processing of personal data, in accordance with the provisions of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of articles 2 par. b and d of Law 2472/1997, which was directly linked to the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

public service relationship of the already complaining employee and his request for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

granting a special permit for health reasons.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The disclosure of the employee's state of health was necessary to assess the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reason for granting his requested relief, so its principle was not violated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proportionality of article 4 par. 1 item b of Law 2472/19997, as well as the obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the confidentiality of processing, in accordance with article 10 of Law 2472/1997 (see related
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reasoning of the 28/2012 decision of the APDX).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 summarizing the above, our management's view on the questions you raised is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that: 1) there was no unauthorized processing of employee personal data, 2) h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reporting the disease was necessary to achieve the goal, because simple was not enough
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invoking a disability rate, 3) the employee's approval was deemed unnecessary,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given that the action was for his own benefit and 4) he has addressed the issue h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our superior authority, which deemed the processing of his data objectionable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employee A.
  

 

 

Our management believes that it acted in the exercise of legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of her duties and is at your disposal for any further clarification."
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. Taking into account the above, the Authority points out that according to par. 2 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 7 of Law 2472/1997, which was applicable during the time period of the considered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, exceptionally permitted under certain limitations and alternatives
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mentioned conditions the collection and processing of sensitive data, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

permission of the Authority.
  

 

 

 

In addition, in this case, as proved by both sides
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Hospital X notified the Ministry of the alleged allegations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Interior and that of the Ministry of Health, invoking the competence of the second as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervising Ministry of the Hospital, its medical certification opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disability (KE.P.A.) of A, i.e. his sensitive personal data according to article 2 par. b
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Law 2472/1997, without informing him, as required by the provision of Article 11 of Law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

2472/1997 and without the consent of the subject and relevant authorization from the Authority, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the provision of Article 7 of Law 2472/1997.
  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Besides, according to article 4 par. 1 f. b' of Law 2472/1997 "personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character to be subject to legal processing (including by the data controller according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 4 par. 2 of Law 2472/1997, and in this case by General Hospital X, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 2 para. g' of the same law) must be relevant, appropriate and no more
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from what is each time required in view of the purposes of the processing. Therefore, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case, General Hospital X, as controller,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sending the relevant document, without deleting the name of the employee to whom
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was mentioned (data subject), so that it is not possible to identify him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the competent Ministry for an opinion on granting or not a special permit and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the same time to satisfy the purpose of satisfaction invoked by the Hospital
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or not of the subject's request, it also violated the principle of proportionality
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data processing.
  

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

The Authority, judging the seriousness of the committed violations of those referred to in
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reasoning of the provisions of Law 2472/1997, as well as the competence and duties of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as such, directs a strict recommendation to X General Hospital to discontinue any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

further processing of the above-mentioned sensitive data of A and such
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applies with due diligence the national and European provisions on protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data.
  

 

 

  

The Deputy President
 

 

 

 

 

George Batzalexis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

  

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

6
 

