The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

Vaccinated or unvaccinated?
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection publishes a working paper
"Processing of the COVID-19 vaccination status in the Bavarian public service"

Munich, November 4, 2021

"Vaccinated or unvaccinated? – This is a question that many Bavarian employers and public
al employers have answered from their employees when it comes to vaccination
against COVID-19. The risks associated with the work of unvaccinated employees
Employees are connected for themselves, but also for others, vary according to assignment
job and activity, after contact with citizens, colleagues
gene very significantly. The law must answer the employer's question about the
Answer vaccination protection differentiated. The Bay-
erian State Commissioner for Data Protection in his working paper that has now been published
"Processing of the COVID-19 vaccination status in the Bavarian public service" in more detail.

Bavarian employers and public employers are allowed to check the COVID-19 vaccination status of their
Employees only process data in the cases provided for by law. including
There are gigantic powers for hospitals or schools, for example. The working paper explains
these powers in detail according to the requirements and scope. It also shows how
far the Bavarian Infection Protection Measures Ordinance for employees of the public
chen service can justify processing of the vaccination status. The paper is increasing
Questions as to when appropriate information will be provided when compensation payments are made
ments may be processed, and when - exceptionally - a consent as
legal basis may be used.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "Information about the vaccination status enjoy as health data
a special protection. Their processing is subject to various legal obligations
gen. My new working paper aims to improve the data protection framework
to describe clearly and understandably in the Bavarian public sector and in this way
the legal certainty equally for the Bavarian employers and public
employers as well as for their employees.”

The working paper "Processing of the COVID-19 vaccination status in the Bavarian public
Service" is available at https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the "Corona Pandemic" section
ready to download.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
subject to instructions.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

