 

 

 

 

press release

 

Urgent decision of the Federal Court of Justice: Facebook uses

dominant position abusively

Erfurt, June 26, 2020

 
In an urgent decision of the Federal Court of Justice (BGH) of June 23, 2020 (KVR 69/19
- Decision) this confirms a decision of the Federal Cartel Office. The federal
tellamt had decided that Facebook would lose its dominant position due to
of the unrestricted profiling practiced by Facebook. users
Facebook would have to agree to the very extensive terms of use. Fa-
However, cebook not only collects data that is collected when using the Facebook platform
fall. It also brings together data, for example users
left on WhatsApp, Instagram or other services together. A choice
of the users whether they want to allow these data links, they do not have.
The Bundeskartellamt saw Facebook's actions as a breach of competition law
Violation. The Bundeskartellamt then prohibited Facebook from sharing such data without
to process further consent from private users. The BGH has now in its
Decision ruled that this ban be enforced by the Federal Cartel Office
may.
 
"An important stage win and a clear signal from the Federal Court of Justice," said the Thuringian
ger State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. Lutz Hasse,
to the urgent decision of the BGH. "A blanket consent is therefore a Rie-
gel advanced. Facebook, as the dominant operator of a social network
work, is now obliged to create a real choice for the users
or to refrain from collecting data in the future," says Dr. hate finally.
 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

Postal address:
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57-3112900
Fax: 0361 57-3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

