 

 

 

 

  

Athens, 08-02-2019
 

 

 

 

 
PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER

 

 

 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/1091/08-02-2019

 

 

      

 

A P O F A S H 4 /2019
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

composition of the Department at its headquarters on 06.02.2019 at 10:00 a.m. after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, in order to examine the case which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refers to the history of the present. The Deputy President, G.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Batzalexis, obstructing the President of the Authority, K. Menoudakou, and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alternate members of the Authority E. Papakonstantinou, as rapporteur and P.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rontogiannis, replacing regular members K. Lambrinoudakis and Ant.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 pulpit respectively, which, although legally summoned in writing, were not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attended due to obstruction. The regular member of the Authority X. Anthopoulos and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deputy member Gr. Tsolias, although they were legally summoned in writing, they did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attended due to obstruction. Present without the right to vote were K. Karveli,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specialist scientist-lawyer, as an assistant rapporteur, who left after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion of the case and before the conference and decision-making and E.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative affairs department, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

secretary.
 

 

 
The Authority took into account the following:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
With the no. prot. G/EI /2795/06.05.2014 her appeal to the Authority, the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
A complains that the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papageorgiou" granted

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
without her prior information and consent her complete medical record

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
file kept at that hospital on B for judicial use.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
1

As in particular emerges from the above-mentioned appeal to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority and the documents attached to it, as well as from the no. first
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

... (prot. no. Authority G/EI /3757/01.07.2015) document of the General Hospital
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thessaloniki "Papageorgiou" in response to no. prot. C/EX/2978-

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/26.05.2015 of the Authority's document to provide clarifications regarding the case,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the applicant filed together with her husband, C the no. ... lawsuit
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the Single Member Court of First Instance of Thessaloniki against B and (husband) D requesting
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the annulment of the termination of the employment contract by the defendant.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 according to the claimants, B and D terminated the contract
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of her work as a domestic worker as soon as they were informed of her pregnancy and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to obtain a more complete picture of the plaintiff's health, the defendants
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they saw fit to have access to her medical data. For that reason,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B with his application from ... to the Misdemeanor Prosecutor of Thessaloniki,
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invoking legal interest, requested the granting of a relevant prosecutor's office
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

order, in order to receive from the General Hospital of Thessaloniki
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Papageorgiou" copies from which the time period can be derived
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her hospitalization.
 

 

Following this, the Prosecutor with no. first ... he forwarded a document to him
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the application of B to the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papageorgiou",
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inviting it to grant the requested data in accordance with article 25 no. 4 sec.
 

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b of Law 1756/1988.
 
 

 

 

 in compliance with the above prosecutorial order, the Traffic Department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patients of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papageorgiou", he informed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in B, except for the one with no. first ... from ... certificate for the days of hospitalization
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the applicant, and copies of her complete medical file, viz
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

briefing notes, detailed findings and complete obstetric history.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file and after hearing him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who then
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

left before the decision conference, after thorough
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion
 

 

 

 
SEVEN E ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

 

 

 

1. in accordance with the provisions of article 2 sec. b) as "sensitive data"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

means data concerning racial or ethnic origin, political
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, association membership,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

union, and trade union organization, health, social welfare and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

love life as well as those related to criminal prosecutions and convictions.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 in accordance with the provisions of article 4 par. 1 item a' b' and c' of n.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997, personal data to be lawfully processed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

should be collected in a fair and lawful manner for specified, clear
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and legal purposes and that there is legitimate and legal processing in view of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes. Also, the data must be relevant, convenient and no more
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from what each time is required in view of the purposes of the processing, as well as to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are accurate and, if necessary, submitted to an update.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Also, the transmission of personal data to a third party constitutes processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data, which is not allowed in principle without consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data subject (article 5 par. 1 of Law 2472/97). Exceptionally
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is allowed to grant them to a third party, and without the subject's consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data, only in the exceptional cases of article 5 par. 2 of the law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/97. One of these cases is when: the third party's legitimate interest
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clearly overrides the rights and interests of the person to whom
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the data are reported, and at the same time fundamental freedoms are not affected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of (see item e of the aforementioned article). Such a case occurs, in particular,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

when the provision of personal data is necessary for identification,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising or defending a right before a court (see item c of article 7
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 of Law 2472/1997 on sensitive personal data, which applies according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

major reason and simple personal data). The third, in his sense
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 2 para. i' of Law 2472/1997, in his application to the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing must be invoked but also prove that the specific
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information requested is absolutely necessary and suitable for identification,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercising or defending his right before a court, and especially in view
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific pending trial, in order to delimit the extent of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary and suitable for this purpose elements that are allowed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be granted according to articles 5 par. 2 item. e' and 4 par. 1 item b' of Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 in the case of communication of personal data by the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing to third parties the data subject should be informed before
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from them (Article 11 par. 3 of Law 2472/1997).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 



Furthermore, according to the Authority's Opinion 3/2009, the prosecution
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

order is binding for the administration, only in the preliminary context
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

investigation, preliminary investigation and main investigation, while in the cases it has as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

content the granting of documents containing personal data of third parties
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of persons binds the administration in the sense of an imperative order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

investigation of the request to grant the document and does not oblige the administration
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in its administration. Also, in accordance with Decision 46/2018 of the APDPH, from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

start of the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(25.5.2018) the provisions of article 7 of Law 2472/97 do not apply according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

part which provide for the granting of a licence, and therefore the Authority no longer has
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authority to grant licenses in the cases provided for in the aforementioned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article.
  

 

2. the considered case, the General Hospital of Thessaloniki
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Papageorgiou", in accordance with the no. chief ... prosecutor's office
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

order, communicated to B details from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her medical file
 

 

 

applicant for judicial use, and specifically for his defense as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

defendant in the discussion of the action brought by the applicant such as these
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
specialize in history.

 

 

The transmission of his specific sensitive personal health data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the applicant's medical file to B was not legally done because it did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prior information to the data subject as required by Article 11
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 3 of Law 2472/1997, and this update was necessary, in order for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant, as a data subject, to exercise the right to object
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 13 of law 2472/1997, which has in any case. Besides, the energy
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the hospital to transmit the applicant's data to a third party infringes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the obligation to inform the data subject and based on the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13 of the General Regulation.
  

 

 

 

Furthermore, even though with the Authority's decision 46/2018 the latter does not have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

now competent to grant permissions for processing through transmission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of sensitive data to a third party, at the time the transmission was made to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

considered case (…), the permission of the Authority was required. Yes, existence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prosecutor's order allowing the transmission due to the existence of a law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interest lacks legal significance, according to the above. Therefore n
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
4

transmission had not been carried out in compliance with the legal conditions.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In view of the above, the Authority, taking into account the seriousness of the violation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 11 of Law 2472/1997 which was proven and of the insult caused by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

she in the subject judges that it should be imposed on the General Hospital
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thessaloniki "Papageorgiou", as data controller, the provided in
 
article 21 paragraph 1 paragraph a' of Law 2472/1997 sanction referred to in the ordinance.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

 

 

 

The beginning :
   
  

1) considers that the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papageorgiou", as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller, should have informed her beforehand
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant A for the transmission of her sensitive personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data for the reasons mentioned in the rationale of the present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2) imposes on the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papageorgiou", as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller, for non-compliance with the above obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prior notification of the applicant and for the reasons that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refer to the rationale of the present, the sanction of the warning,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pointing out that henceforth he should inform patients-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subjects for the transmission of their personal data
 
data to third parties.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Deputy President

 

 

                                           

 
The Secretary

 

         
 

 
           

 
 

 

 

 

George Batzalexis

                                    

 

 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

5
 

