 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
Opinion  15/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Luxembourg regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 
 

Adopted on 4 July 2022 

 

 

Adopted  

Table of contents  

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 4 
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4 
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements . 4 
 
 
Analysis of the LU SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 5 
INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 6 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 7 
EXPERTISE ........................................................................................................................ 7 
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................... 8 
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING .......................................................................... 8 
COMMUNICATION WITH THE LU SA ............................................................................... 8 
REVIEW MECHANISMS .................................................................................................... 8 
LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................. 8 
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................................... 9 
FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 10 

 

Adopted  

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance explaining the accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term  “accreditation”. However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

Adopted  

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Luxembourg  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “LU  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  decision 
containing  the  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of  conduct  monitoring  body  to  the  Board, 
requesting  its  opinion  pursuant  to  article  64  (1)(c),  for  a  consistent  approach  at  Union  level.  The 
decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 28 March 2022.   

  ASSESSMENT 
  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

Adopted  

4. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

5. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

6.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

LU SA to take further action.  

7. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the LU SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the LU SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

Taking into account that: 

8. 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

9. 

 
The Board notes that on 22 February 2022, “the Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for 
transfers”  were  adopted.  These  guidelines  do  not  add  any  additional  requirements  for  the 
accreditation of monitoring bodies that monitor codes of conduct intended for international transfers. 
Rather, the guidelines provide further specifications of the general requirements established by the 
Guidelines 1/2019 (Section 12) taking into account the specific context of international transfers2. For 
the sake of clarity, the Board recommends the LU SA to add a reference to the above-mentioned 
guidelines, which are relevant in the context of monitoring codes of conduct intended for international 
transfers. 

2 See Section4.2 of the EDPB Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers 

 

Adopted  

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

The Board encourages the LU SA to include either in the draft accreditation requirements or in the 
complementary guidance to the requirements, some examples of the information or documents that 
applicants have to submit when applying for accreditation. 

The Board notes that the requirements state that an internal monitoring body “could be an internal 
department  within  the  code  owner”.  The  Board  considers  that  it  should  be  made  explicit  that  an 
internal monitoring body cannot be setup within a code member. Therefore, the Board recommends 
adding a relevant provision. 

The  Board  notes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  the  duration  of  the  accreditation  or  accreditation 
withdrawal  procedures.  Whilst  the  Board  accepts  that  these  areas  fall  into  the  area  of  guidance 
supporting the accreditation requirements, the Board considers them important areas in terms of 
ensuring that the whole accreditation process is transparent. On the basis of the explanations provided 
by  the  LU  SA,  the  Board  understands  that  the  information  will  be  included  in  the  accreditation 
procedure, and welcomes such inclusion.  

The  Board  observes  that  the  LU  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  are  sometimes  worded  in 
present tense, instead of as an obligation (e.g. sections 5.5 and 6.1).  For the sake of clarity, the Board 
recommends that the LU SA formulate the requirements as an obligation (ie. using “shall”, “must”, or 
equivalent term). 

The  Board  observes  that  the  draft  requirements  make  several  references  to  “audit”,  instead  of 
“monitoring”. Based on the explanations provided by the LU SA, the Board understands that “audit” is 
used as a synonym of “monitoring”. However, in order to avoid confusion, the Board encourages the 
LU SA to make it clearer.  

 

INDEPENDENCE 

The  Board  welcomes  the  inclusion  of  explanatory  notes  in  the  LU  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements, as they contribute to improve the clarity and understanding thereof.  

The Board considers that the requirements concerning the organisational and financial independence 
of the monitoring body (section 1.4 and 1.7 of the draft requirements, respectively) should address 
the  boundary  conditions  that  determine  the  concrete  requirements.  These  include  the  expected 
number, size and complexity of the code members (as monitored entities), the nature and scope of 
their  activities  (which  are  the  subject  of  the  code)  and  the  complexity  or  degree  of  risk(s)  of  the 
relevant  processing  operation(s).  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  LU  SA  to  redraft  the 
requirements accordingly. 

17.  Moreover, with regard to the organisational resources (section 1.4), the Board observes that the draft 
accreditation  requirements  refer  to  “adequate  resources  and  personnel  to  effectively  perform  its 
task”.  The  Board  encourages  LU  SA  to  redraft  the  relevant  part  of  the  requirements  by  adding  a 
reference  to  “sufficient  number  of  sufficiently  qualified  personnel”  and  including  a  reference  to 
technical resources necessary for the effective performance of the monitoring body’s task. 

18. 

In addition, the Board considers that the requirements on financial resources would benefit from the 
inclusion of some examples with regard to the financial independence of the monitoring body, in order 
to highlight how the monitoring body can demonstrate that the means by which it obtains financial 
support should not adversely affect its independence (section 1.7). For instance, the monitoring body 
would not be considered financially independent if the rules governing its financial support allow a 
code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop its financial contributions to 

Adopted  

it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. The Board encourages the LU SA 
to such clarification and provide examples of how the monitoring body can provide such evidence. 

19.  Regarding section 1.5 on internal monitoring bodies, the Board considers that the impartiality of the 
internal monitoring body shall be ensured not only towards the larger entity, but towards the overall 
group structure. The Board encourages the LU SA to make the necessary amendments.  

20. 

In addition, the Board underlines that, according to point 65 of the Guidelines, where an internal 
monitoring body is proposed, there should be separate personnel and management, accountability 
and function from other areas of the organisation. The LU SA’s draft accreditation requirements do 
not include a reference to a separate accountability and, therefore, the Board recommends to add 
such reference. Likewise, the Board recommends the LU SA to add a requirement to prove that the 
internal monitoring body has a specific separated budget that is able to manage independently.  

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

21.  As a general remark in this section, the Board is of the opinion that, for practical reasons, more detailed 
examples of cases where a conflict of interest could arise might be helpful. An example of a conflict of 
interest situation would be the case where personnel conducting audits or making decisions on behalf 
of  a  monitoring  body  had  previously  worked  for  the  code  owner,  or  for  any  of  the  organisations 
adhering  to  the  code.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  LU  SA  to  elaborate  on  the  examples 
included in the explanatory note. 

22. 

23. 

Furthermore, the Board observes that the LU SA accreditation requirements do not explicitly include 
the obligation of the monitoring body to refrain from any action that is incompatible with its tasks and 
duties (paragraph 68, page 23 of the Guidelines). Therefore, the Board recommends the LU SA to align 
the text with the Guidelines and include the above-mentioned obligation. 

  EXPERTISE 

The EDPB welcomes the explanations provided in the explanatory note and encourages the LU SA to 
include some addition examples of documentation that demonstrates the necessary experience, such 
as data protection certifications and training certificates.  

24.  With regard to section 3.5, the Board notes that it distinguishes 3 types of personnel: auditors, “other 
technical experts”, legal experts. However, it is unclear what is the difference between the three types 
of personnel. In addition, point b) seems to imply that auditors are technical personnel. The Board 
considers that this curtails the possibility for legal personnel to perform audits. Therefore, the Board 
recommends the LU SA to clarify the differences between the three roles and ensure consistency in 
the requirements, in order to not curtail the freedom of the code owner to define the type of expertise 
required for each role.   

25. 

26. 

Furthermore, the EDPB considers that the requirements for the personnel are very specific and may 
curtail the freedom of the code owner to define the specific expertise requirements in the code of 
conduct. The Board encourages the LU SA to make the requirements less restrictive by including a 
more general reference that takes into account the different types  of codes, such as "a relevant level 
of experience in accordance with the code itself".  

In  addition,  the  Board  observes  that  the  LU  SA  makes  a  distinction  between  legal  and  technical 
personnel. The Board encourages the LU SA to clarify that the technical requirements of the personnel 
will depend on whether it is necessary for the code at stake.  

Adopted  

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

27.  With regard to section 4.5, the Board notes that the procedure to ensure the monitoring of the code 
of conduct will take into account the “number of code members”. Since the number of code members 
may not be known at the moment the monitoring body applies for accreditation, the Board encourages 
the LU SA to refer to the expected number and size of the code members. 

28. 

The Board notes that section 4.6 should include a reference to regular reporting, in line with paragraph 
72 of the Guidelines, and encourages the LU SA to do so.  

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

29.  With regard to section 5, the Board recommends the LU SA to include the obligation of the monitoring 
body to inform the code member, the code owner, the LU SA and where, required, all concerned SAs 
about the measures taken and its justification without undue delay, in line with paragraph 77 of the 
Guidelines. 

30. 

31. 

Finally, regarding the provision of evidence of suitable corrective measures (section 5.3), the Board 
encourages the LU SA to amend the text, in order to establish the obligation of the monitoring body 
to provide evidence of suitable and, if necessary, immediate corrective measures.  

  COMMUNICATION WITH THE LU SA 

The  Board  notes  that  section  6.2  refers  to  changes  “to  the  basis  of  accreditation”.  Based  on  the 
explanations provided by the LU SA, the Board understands that it refers to changes having an impact 
on the compliance to the accreditation requirements. The Board encourages the LU SA to add such 
clarification.  

  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

32.  As  stated  in  the  LU  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (section  7.2),  the  monitoring  body  shall 
ensure that it has documented plans and procedures to review the operation of the code to ensure 
that the code remains relevant to the members. In this respect, the Board underlines that changes in 
the application and interpretation of the law and new technological developments should be taken 
into consideration. Therefore, the Board encourages the LU SA to reflect it in the text. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

The Board notes that under section 7.2 of the requirements there is no reference to the fact that the 
updating of the code of conduct is the responsibility of the code owner. The Board is of the opinion 
that, in order to avoid confusion, a reference to the code owner should be made. Therefore, the Board 
encourages  the  LU  SA  to  add  that  the  monitoring  body  shall  apply  and  implement  updates, 
amendments, and/or extensions to the Code, as decided by the code owner. 

In addition, the Board considers that the annual report on the operation of the code should be at the 
disposal of the LU SA, and encourages the LU SA to amend the draft accordingly. 

  LEGAL STATUS 

The Board encourages the LU SA to replace the term “European Union” by “European Economic Area” 
in section 8.1. 

36.  Regarding section 9, the EDPB recommends the LU SA to add that, when subcontractors are used, the 
monitoring body shall ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entities. 
Moreover, the Board underlines the need to specify requirements relating to the termination of the 
contract, in particular so as to ensure that the subcontractors fulfil their data protection obligations, 

Adopted  

and encourages the LU SA to add such remark. Finally, the Board encourages the LU SA to to provide 
examples of when subcontracting is allowed and to delete the sentence related to subcontracting in 
“punctual circumstances”. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

37. 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  Luxembourgish  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an 
inconsistent application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to 
be made: 

38.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the LU SA: 

     1. to add a reference to the Guidelines 04/2021, which are relevant in the context of monitoring 
codes of conduct intended for international transfers. 

2. make explicit that an internal monitoring body cannot be setup within a code member. 

3. formulate the requirements as an obligation. 

39.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the LU SA: 

1. include a reference to a separate accountability  

2. add a requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific separated budget 

that is able to manage independently 

40.  Regarding conflict of interest  the Board recommends that the LU SA: 

1. align the text with the Guidelines and include the obligation of the monitoring body to refrain 

from any action that is incompatible with its tasks and duties 
41.  Regarding expertise the Board recommends that the LU SA: 

1.  clarify  the  differences  between  the  three types of personnel and ensure consistency in the 
requirements, in order to not curtail the freedom of the code owner to define the type of expertise 
required for each role. 

42.  Regarding transparent complaint handling  the Board recommends that the LU SA: 

1. include the obligation of the monitoring body to inform the code member, the code owner, the 
LU SA and where, required, all concerned SAs about the measures taken and its justification without 
undue delay, in line with paragraph 77 of the Guidelines. 

43.  Regarding legal status  the Board recommends that the LU SA: 

1. add in section 9 that, when subcontractors are used, the monitoring body shall ensure effective 

monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entities 

 

Adopted  

  FINAL REMARKS 

44. 

This opinion is addressed to the Luxembourgish supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant 
to Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

45.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the LU SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

46. 

The LU SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted  

