 

 
 
 
European Commission 

 

22 January 2021 
Ref: OUT2021-0004  

Dear Commissioner Schinas, 
Dear Commissioner Johansson, 
Dear Commissioner Reynders, 
 
The  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  took  note  of  the  Commission  report  on  the 
review  of  Directive  2016/681  on  the  use  of  passenger  name  record  (PNR)  data  for  the 
prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime, 
which was published on 24 July 2020.1 
 
As  main  conclusion,  the  Commission  considers  that  assessment  of  the  first  two  years  of 
application of the Directive is overall positive and takes the view that no amendments to the 
PNR Directive should be proposed at this stage. The Commission also considers that some 
issues  like  a  possible  extension  of  the  Directive’s  scope  shall  be  further  assessed. 
Furthermore, before deciding whether to propose a revision the Commission wishes to take 
into account the  results of the on-going evaluation  of the Advance Passenger Information 
Directive as well as the outcome of the preliminary ruling requests currently before the Court 
of Justice.2  
 
The EDPB wishes to recall that the European data protection authorities already identified a 
need  for  amending  the  PNR  Directive  after  analysing  the  reasoning  of  the  CJEU  on  the 
envisaged PNR agreement with Canada3. This was put forward to the Commission in a letter 
of the former Working Party 29 (WP29) on 11 April 2018.4 In the view of the WP29, the Court’s 
Opinion,  though  not  having  a  formal  legal  effect  on  other  acts  of  the  Union,  highlighted 
deficiencies  that  could  equally  be  found  in  other  PNR  instruments.  Regarding  the  PNR 
directive, the WP29 in particular pointed out that the indiscriminate and long-term retention 
of PNR data and access to them after passengers have been cleared in security and border 

                                                             
1 COM(2020) 305 final. 
2 Request for a preliminary ruling in Case C-817/19 Ligue des droits humains, OJ C 36, 3.2.2020, p. 16-17 
(pending); request for preliminary ruling in joined Cases C-148/20, C-149/20 and C-150/20 Deutsche Lufthansa, 
OJ C 279/21, 24.08.2020, p. 21-22 (pending); request for preliminary ruling in joined Cases C-215/20 and 
C220/20, not yet published (pending). 
3 CJEU Opinion 1/15 (Grand Chamber) of 26 July 2017.  
4 https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/document.cfm?action=display&doc_id=51023. 

 

 

1 

 

control  checks  are  not  in  compliance  with  the  Opinion  of  the  CJEU. While  the  processing, 
retention and transfer of PNR data is generally subject to stricter rules in the EU PNR directive 
than in the envisaged PNR agreement with Canada, the WP29 considered in 2018 that the EU 
PNR directive is at least partly not in compliance with the requirements expressed by the CJEU 
in its opinion. The EDPB upholds the former position of the WP29 and reiterates its call upon 
the  European  Commission  to  take  action  in  order  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  CJEU’s 
opinion regarding both PNR agreements with the US and Australia as well as regarding the 
PNR directive. 
 
In the view of the EDPB, the review report does not explicitly confirm, nor substantiate in a 
comprehensive manner, the necessity and proportionality of the indiscriminate collection and 
processing of PNR data for the purposes of the PNR Directive, but rather raises even more 
doubts. 
 
In this context, and in relation to the necessity principle and the retention and use of PNR 
data,  the  EDPB  recalls  that  the  CJEU  in  its  opinion  on  the  envisaged  EU-Canada  PNR 
agreement considered that “the average lifespan of international serious crime networks and 
the duration and complexity of investigations relating to those networks, do not justify the 
continued storage of the PNR data of all air passengers after their departure from Canada for 
the  purposes  of  possibly  accessing  that  data,  regardless  of  whether  there  is  any  link  with 
combating  terrorism  and  serious  transnational  crime  (see,  by  analogy,  judgment  of  21 
December  2016,  Tele2  Sverige  and  Watson  and  Others,  C‑203/15  and  C‑698/15, 
EU:C:2016:970, paragraph 119).”5 While this reasoning applied in the case of data retention 
and processing after departing a third country, the EDPB considers that the conclusion of the 
CJEU  and  the  link  between  the  retention  of  PNR  data  and  the  combatting  of  serious 
transnational crime remains relevant within the scope of the EU PNR Directive review and 
necessity assessment. 
 
Furthermore, the EDPB would like to stress that the CJEU also recently held in La Quadrature 
du Net and others, that “legislation requiring the retention of personal data must always meet 
objective  criteria  that  establish  a  connection  between  the  data  retained  and  the  objective 
pursued”6. In the same context, in Privacy International, it also held that the legislator “must 
rely on objective criteria in order to define the circumstances and conditions under which the 
competent national authorities are to be granted access to the data at issue”7. In light of this 
recent case-law, the EDPB considers that the review of the EU PNR Directive must rely on 

                                                             
5 CJEU Opinion 1/15 (Grand Chamber) of 26 July 2017, § 205. 
6 CJEU Judgement in joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18 and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net and others, § 133. 
7 CJEU Judgement in case C-623/17, Privacy International, § 78. 

 

2 

 

solid and evidence-based elements able to  demonstrate the  connection between the  PNR 
data retained and the objective pursued. 
 
The  Commission  points  out  the  Member  States’  assumption  that  the  different  means  of 
processing of PNR data available to them (i.e. real time, reactive and proactive) have already 
delivered tangible results in the fight against terrorism and crime. Thirteen case studies are 
presented as qualitative evidence in the accompanying Staff Working Document.8 However, 
the specifics and detailed circumstances of these case studies have not been made available, 
which therefore cannot be considered as sufficient elements able to substantiate in a general 
manner the necessity and proportionality of the processing under the EU PNR Directive. 
 
Remarkably, in at least one of those case studies, the processing of PNR merely led to a time 
advantage. The fugitive, convicted to a six-year prison sentence for drug-related offences who 
was wanted by the authorities, would have been subject to a Schengen Information System 
(SIS) check in border controls as a traveler from a third country anyway. This check would 
have resulted in the identification, since a wanted fugitive is subject to specific alert within 
SIS. Whether PNR data were necessary at all to identify this person, is at least questionable, 
and may not allow to draw general conclusions as to the necessity of a general retention of 
PNR data. In addition, the upcoming implementation of the European Travel Information and 
Authorisation  System  (ETIAS),  applicable  to  travelers  exempted  from  visa  requirements, 
would render this case even less relevant, as the individual coming from a non-EU country 
would  be  identified  prior  to  entering  the  EU,  at  the  time  of  the  request  for  travel 
authorisation. 
 
Even if not being exhaustive, the small number of case studies has to be seen in the light of 
the total amount of processing, which is processing of mass data. The statistics gathered by 
the  Commission  for  2019  indicate  that  0.59%  of  all  passengers  whose  data  have  been 
collected  have  been 
identified  through  automated  processing  as  requiring  further 
examination. An even smaller fraction of 0.11% was transmitted to competent authorities.9 
In the view of the Commission this means that, overall, PNR systems deliver targeted results 
which limit the degree of interference with the rights to privacy and the protection of personal 
data  of  the  vast  majority  of  bona  fide  travelers.  However,  there  is  still  a  gap  of  0.48%  of 
passengers who were subject to further verification measures and 0.11% who were subject 
to further measures of the competent authorities.  
 

                                                             
8 SWD(2020) 128 final. 
9 SWD(2020) 128 final, p. 28. 

 

3 

 

What might seem a very small amount of passengers, looks much larger when transferring it 
into total numbers of persons, for example with figures from 2018 as provided by Eurostat. 
Though the Eurostat figures may also include flights for which PNR data may not have been 
systematically collected, the EDPB considers these figures as relevant to draw conclusions in 
terms of scale and volume10. In 2018, 1.1 billion passengers travelled by air in the European 
Union, 16 % of those in national transport, the rest in intra-EU and extra-EU flights.11 This 
would amount to 924 million passengers being subject to the collection of PNR data. With 
0,59%  of  technical  hits  there  would  have  been  5.451.600  persons  subject  to  further 
processing  in  one  year,  4.435.200  of  them  would  have  been  sorted  out  and  still,  data  of 
1.016.400  persons  would  have  been  transmitted  to  competent  authorities  for  further 
measures. 
 
The great amount of persons concerned compared to the little evidence for the usefulness of 
PNR  data  given  in  the  few  case  studies  up  to  now,  raises  serious  doubts  towards  the 
proportionality of such mass data processing. 
 
In any case, the high number of persons sorted out in manual verification after technical hits 
shows an issue with data quality. This is notably due to the fact that PNR data are collected 
by carriers for a different purpose. For example, PNR data do not necessarily contain birth 
dates of air passengers. Therefore, real time comparison with EU information systems such 
as the Schengen Information System will almost inevitably produce a number of false or at 
least unverifiable matches. All those matches would then need to be further processed for 
manual verification, which may often lead to a dead end because of the missing birth date. 
The same issue may arise with reactive processing. 
 
Having considered the Commission  review report of the EU PNR Directive, and taking into 
account  the  latest  CJEU  case  law,  the  EDPB  takes  the  view  that  the  necessity  and 
proportionality of collecting and processing PNR data for each of the purposes set out in the 
Directive, as referred to in its Article 19, is not sufficiently substantiated and demonstrated.  
While  the  EDPB  would  very  much  welcome  any  further  detailed  assessment  and 
communication  in  this  regard,  it  reiterates  in  the  meantime  its  call  on  the  European 
Commission to take action, in due time taking into account the related CJEU cases currently 
pending,  in  order  to  ensure  compliance  of  all  EU  PNR  instruments,  including  the  EU  PNR 

                                                             
10 On the basis of the information available and the practices of Member States for the collection of PNR data 
for intra-EU flights, it seems that the proportion of flights from the Eurostat figures which would not be subject 
to PNR data collection remains marginal. 
11 See Eurostat statistics under https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/documents/2995521/10265946/7-06122019-
AP-EN.PDF/8f2c9d16-c1c4-0e1f-7a66-47ce411faef7.   

 

4 

 

Directive, with EU law and case-law. The EDPB stands ready to engage in further discussions 
and provide input to the Commission in this task.   
 
Yours sincerely, 
 

 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

5 

