

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Business Company
UOOU-03912/20


The check with this company was
initiated on the basis of 75 complaints. The commercial messages in question have been sent
in the period August 2020 to February 2021. It contained an offer of various consumer goods
goods and linked to the websites of several online stores. Control
found that the domains themselves intended for sending commercial messages (except
one) do not function as websites themselves and are their holders or owners
unknown (the inspector failed to identify them) natural persons. The same
hosting services of these domains are provided on IP addresses belonging to
the address range of foreign companies or the corresponding IP address is no longer possible
trace. The controller also requested the cooperation of the relevant registrars
domain names from which commercial messages are distributed. Just in case
of several domains (relating to the seven commercial messages sent) was specific
sender detected. The other actual senders can then be traced to the controller
failed. However, the online stores for whose benefit it was in question
commercial messages disseminated, operated by a controlled person at the time of the mailings. The
however, she did not respond to any of the calls for cooperation. For not providing
cooperation within the framework of control (violation of ยง 10, paragraph 2 of the control regulation) eat
a penalty of CZK 100,000 was imposed. Checking for submission
commercial communications states that the person responsible for disseminating commercial communications is how
the actual sender of commercial communications, as well as the entity or entities,
for whose benefit the commercial communications were disseminated. Public liability
for an offense according to ยง 11 paragraph 1 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain services
information society, is formulated as objective responsibility, that is
liability for consequences, when in relation to a legal entity there is no need
investigate the culpability of the resulting illegal situation and it is not possible to
exempt from responsibility by simply transferring private funds to another person
right. The company on whose behalf the commercial communications are sent is
thus, she cannot absolve herself of her responsibility, on the contrary, she must still be able to provide evidence
consents of the addressees of commercial communications or must be able to secure these
consents through the company (sender) that commercial communications
she sent However, the controlled person consents to sending business communications to
she did not provide proof of the relevant e-mail addresses. The reviewer thus came to the conclusion that
that the controlled person is a disseminator of commercial communications, since in his
relevant commercial messages were sent. Furthermore, the inspector stated
violation of ยง 7 paragraph 4 letter b) of the above-mentioned law, because sent business
the message did not contain information about the sender on whose behalf the communication was made
makes or in some cases even contained misleading
information when, as the sender, for whose benefit the commercial communications are
circulated, stated another subject. Objections to the protocol of
were not submitted to the control by the controlled person. For violation of the above
provisions, a penalty of CZK 200,000 was imposed on her, which she has already acquired
legal power. In view of the fact that the penalty has not yet been paid,
has been forwarded to the relevant customs authority for enforcement.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2021 > Unsolicited commercial communications - 1st half of the year > Commercial companyView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



