


Press release 10/2022


  G7 data protection and privacy authorities want to advance DFFT
The BfDI, Prof. Ulrich Kelber, is satisfied with the result of this year's G7 roundtable of the data protection supervisory and privacy authorities: We have agreed to work together on the basis for a free and trustworthy flow of data and, in doing so, the protection of personal data Focusing on citizen data. We will be promoting this “Data Free Flow with Trust” or DFFT path to our respective governments.



Source: BPA/BfDI

The data protection supervisory and privacy authorities thus confirm the agreement reached by the G7 digital ministries in May 2022: A free, global, open, interoperable, reliable and secure Internet can only exist with democratic values and human rights. Data protection is a key element in this. Within the framework of the G7, we will strive to promote legal common ground and high protection standards in the instruments for international data transfers. We have also decided to consolidate the G7 roundtable of data protection and privacy authorities with annual meetings. Our final declaration shows that we have taken important steps on a path that is admittedly still a long one.
Germany is chairing the G7 this year. The BfDI had therefore invited its colleagues from the G7 countries to its headquarters in Bonn. On September 6, he officially welcomed the leaders of the delegation with a reception on the Petersberg. The BfDI said: Our first meeting as data protection supervisory and privacy authorities within the G7 last year could only take place as a video conference due to the pandemic. I was therefore extremely happy to be able to personally welcome my colleagues to Bonn.
At the end of the three-day roundtable, the G7 data protection supervisory and privacy authorities published a joint final declaration with the results of the conference.

To the communique of the G7-DPA Roundtable 2022
G7 Communique (PDF, 461KB, file is barrier-free)

More on the G7-DPA Roundtable 2022
Opening of the G7-DPA Roundtable 2022 in BonnG7 Roundtable




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











