1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00082/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 27, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 with CIF
P2409100A (hereinafter claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
the following:

"Failure to comply with the regulations in force by having video cameras-
surveillance at various points in the city of ***LOCALIDAD.1 whose posters do not
indicate the data controller (...)”—folio nº1--.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

The documentation provided by the claimant confirms that the cartels do not
They take the authority responsible for the treatment through a complementary panel. The
The same claimant provides photographs of the posters claimed together with another from another
autonomous community that meets this requirement.

According to Additional Provision 8 of LO 4/1997, these posters must
comply with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
to the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data as collected
the Video Surveillance Guide in its section 4.2.1 and the legal report of this Agency to the
referred to in this section.

THIRD: On May 5, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FOURTH: The database of this AEPD consulted on 06/13/21 does not contain
any allegation in relation to the facts subject to transfer.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 02/27/20 through the
which is transferred to this AEPD the following:

"Failure to comply with the regulations in force by having video cameras-
surveillance at various points in the city of León whose signs do not indicate the
data controller (...)”—folio nº1--.

Second. It is accredited as the main responsible City Council of ***LOCA-
LITY.1.

Third. No response has been made in relation to the availability of cargo.
informative tel(s), indicating the data controller.

Fourth. No measure has been explained in relation to the camera system.
video-surveillance cameras installed by the Consistory.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 02/27/20 is examined by me-
gave from which the following is transferred as the main "fact":

"Breach of data protection regulations, preventing
the exercise of rights in legal form as the information on the cartels is insufficient.
training courses installed" (folio no. 1).

The facts will be limited to the possession of informative posters that do not fit

as to the regulations in force, after the inquiries carried out by this Agency.

The Organic Law 4/1997 that regulates the use of video cameras by the Forces and
Security Forces in public places, refers to compliance with the norm
tive in data protection. Specifically, this rule will be applicable in matters

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

such as creation of the register of activities, adoption of security measures,
ity, rights of people and right to information by signaling the
guarded space.

The RGPD obliges data controllers to offer interested parties a ma-
More information about the treatments that are carried out and the way to exercise the rights
guys. All those responsible must comply with this obligation of transparency,
regardless of its size as an organization.

In articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, an exhaustive list of the information
that must be provided to the interested parties (wider than the one contained in today's
requested LOPD 15/1999), depending on whether or not the data has been obtained from the interested party.

Article 22 of Organic Law 3/2018 (December 5)-LOPDGDD- provides:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is
essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section. However, it will be
It is possible to capture the public road in a greater extension when it is necessary.
ary to guarantee the security of strategic assets or facilities or infrastructure
structures linked to transport, without in any case implying the capture
of images of the interior of a private home”

III

In accordance with the "evidence" available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant (a) has a system of
video-surveillance gangs without it being duly signaled in relation to
to the “responsible for the treatment” of the data.

According to the content of Organic Law 4/1997, installed cameras must use-
with respect to the principle of proportionality, both from the point of view of its
suitability as the minimum intervention.

The information to the interested party will be made through posters that warn of the

video surveillance area.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant, for
violation of the content of article 13 RGPD “Information that must be provided
when the personal data is obtained from the interested party”.

IV

The behavior described is subsumable in the offending type of art. 83.5 b) GDPR, which
prescribes the following: “Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned
will, in accordance with paragraph 2, be subject to administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year, op-
taking the highest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

v

Article 77 section 1 LOPDGDD provides: "The regime established in this article
will apply to the treatments for which they are responsible or entrusted:

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
ca, the competent data protection authority will issue a sanction resolution
mentioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed. The resolution will be notified to the person in charge
responsible for the treatment, to the body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and to the
affected who had the status of interested party, as the case may be (...)”.

 4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

SAW

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2
d) it is established that each control authority may “order the person in charge or
of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions
of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within
a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

The rest of the issues exceed the competence framework of this Agency, de-

being resolved in their case in the corresponding instances.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE TO TOWN HALL OF ***LOCALITY.1, with CIF P2409100A,
for an infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCATION.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

THIRD: ORDER the claimed CITY COUNCIL OF LEÓN so that in the
non-extendable term of ONE MONTH proceed to prove in legal form the availability
sign (s) approved indicating that it is a video-monitored area, with information
indication of the data controller.

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the

 Ombudsman, of

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

