

Bonn/Berlin, July 28, 2020


Press release 21/2020


DSK demands constitutional register modernization
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) calls for the constitutional implementation of the register modernization in a resolution. The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber rejects the planned use of the tax identification number as a general classification feature.

The BfDI said: The plans for register modernization are not bad at all in many respects and are definitely in the interest of the citizens. However, the use of a uniform identification number poses a considerable risk of improper merging of data from different registers. This invalidates many security measures. I hope that the Federal Constitutional Court will not have to protect us again from a state that is too curious.
The DSK had already pointed out in a resolution in 2019 that the creation of such uniform and cross-administrative personal identifiers or identifiers could be dangerous because personal data can be easily linked to a large extent and completed to form a comprehensive personality profile. The current draft law on the modernization of registers stipulates that the tax identification number will be recorded as an additional feature for more than 50 registers.

The resolution of the data protection conference (DSK):
Resolution - implement register modernization in accordance with the constitution!

In-depth data protection information on the planned register modernization:
Background paper on register modernization and creation of a uniform personal identifier




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











