1/7

 File No.: EXP202103943

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 14, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against CINCON S.C. with NIF J87383295 (hereinafter, the part
claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

The claimant states that the claimed entity has on its website a
form that collects personal data for access to a free class in your
facilities and points out that, in the information on data processing provided by
the claimed entity, not all the information required by the regulations of
data protection, since there is no record of the period during which the data will be kept.
personal data provided by customers.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on the same date it was released
provision, on November 5, 2021, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that
work on file.

No response has been received to this transfer letter.

THIRD: On January 14, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On March 11, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP on March 14, 2022 and after the term granted for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: In the information on data processing provided by the entity
claimed on its website when accessing the form that must be filled in by the
potential customers for access to a free class at your facility, you will not be
includes all the information required by the data protection regulations, since
that the period during which the personal data provided will be kept is not stated
by customers.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD, grants to each authority of
control and according to what is established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 5 of the RGPD regarding the principles of treatment, provides that the data
Personal data will be “processed in a lawful, fair and transparent manner in relation to the
interested (“legality, loyalty and transparency”).”

Manifestation of this principle of transparency is the obligation incumbent upon the
responsible for the treatment of informing, in the terms provided in article 13
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

of the RGPD, to the owner of the personal data when they are obtained directly
Of the interested:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the place where they are made available.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing
such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

III

In the present case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradict the facts denounced within the period given for it. In accordance with
the evidence that is available and that has not been distorted during the
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the claimed party has violated the
article 13 of the RGPD since the form that you must fill out to access a
free class at its facilities does not duly inform of the period during which the
They will keep the personal data provided.

The known facts are considered to constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed party, for violation of article 13.2 of the RGPD, which states that "In addition
of the information mentioned in paragraph 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained, the
following information necessary to ensure fair data processing and
transparent:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period.

Article 83.5 RGPD establishes that violations of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20,000
EUR 000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4
Maximum % of the global total annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22

In turn, article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
mild has:

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13
and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with
article 83 of the RGPD -article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of the GDPR, where applicable, in a certain way and within a
specified term -article 58. 2 d). According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

the measure provided for in article 58.2 d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the
sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

In this case, based on the facts set forth, it is considered that the sanction
that should be imposed is an administrative fine for the infraction committed. The
fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate and
dissuasive, in accordance with article 83.1 of the RGPD. In order to determine the fine
to be imposed, the provisions of article 83.2 of the
GDPR, which indicates:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have included the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity
f) Affectation of the rights of minors
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
exist
interested".

  among those

controversies

any

Y

 

 

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating the provisions of article 13.2 of the RGPD, it allows a fine of 500
€ (FIVE HUNDRED EUROS).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CINCON S.C., with NIF J87383295, for an infraction of the
Article 13.2 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €500
(FIVE HUNDRED EUROS).

SECOND: REQUEST CINCON S.C., with NIF J87383295, under the
provided in article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten business days
from this act of notification proves before this body the adoption of the
following measure:

-

The adequacy of the information regarding the period during which it will be kept
your personal data for those people who fill out the form
collection of data from those who request access to a free class in their
installations.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to CINCON S.C..

Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once the
This resolution is executive, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period
established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal
Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number of
procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-050522

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

