

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the use of voice biometrics (the company Česká spořitelna, a.s.)



On the basis of the control plan for 2018, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the processing of personal data of clients in connection with the use of voice biometrics with a focus on the legality of this processing, the provision of information about this processing and the security of processed personal data. The inspectors found that the inspected person as administrator of personal data processes biometric personal data (voice biometrics) for the purpose of verifying the client's identity when calling the administrator's client center. The processing takes place on the basis of the consent of the data subjects. Consent to the provision of voice biometrics is voluntary and the data subject can revoke it at any time at any business location or on a free telephone line. The inspectors also found that the inspected person fulfills the obligation to provide information and has taken technical and organizational measures to secure personal data. The office did not detect a violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in connection with the processing of personal data in question. The inspection was conducted by inspector Mgr. Daniel Rovan. Recommendation: Biometric technologies are not a full replacement for other security solutions and do not in themselves ensure greater security. Administrators acquiring these systems not only have the obligation to assess the adequacy of a specific solution and the risks associated with it, but also have to appropriately combine the biometric system with other security measures. Administrators must investigate in advance whether there are serious threats that justify the installation of such systems and continuously assess the effectiveness of biometric systems. The use of a biometric system for the purpose of verifying a customer's identity is generally possible only on the basis of the customer's express consent.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Biometric data, DNA > Inspection of the use of voice biometrics (Česká spořitelna company, a.s.) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



