1/7

Procedure No.: PS/00366/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A., acting on behalf of Mr. B.B.B., Ms.
C.C.C., Mrs. D.D.D., Mr. E.E.E., Mrs. F.F.F., Mr. G.G.G., Mr. H.H.H. and D.I.I.I. (in
hereinafter, the claimant party) on June 23, 2020 filed a claim
before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The claim is directed against D.
J.J.J, (APPLY SUPPORT S.L.) with NIF ***NIF.1, (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The complaining party declares the sending of emails by the
claimed, sole administrator of the company Apply Support S.L., disclosing data
claims of the complaining party in the context of a series of facts that are
being the subject of criminal proceedings, without their knowledge or consent or
some other legal basis for it. The receivers of the information are third parties
companies that maintain business relationships with the company for which
claimants currently work, the purpose of the communications being
precisely that of damaging and breaking said commercial relations.

The emails, in addition to containing information in the body of the
personal character, they contain attached a police report in which they clearly appear
personal data of the claimants and information related to a criminal procedure.

Whoever signs them is the claimant party in the referenced police report. The
fact that no attempt was made to prevent the identification of claimants through
the use of a technique or means (for example, crossing out all the information
personal), reveals that the objective is clearly to cause serious harm and to violate the
rights and freedoms of the claimants.

The complaining party provides a copy of two of the emails, although they have
knowledge of the existence of more similar emails in the same context, and
they maintain that it is possible that others have been sent more than those that are not
knowledge.

Relevant documentation provided by the complaining party:

Copy of email sent by D. J.J.J. to third parties with
-
date 07/18/2019 with personal data of the claimants and where there is an attachment
with name “Police report App FO…sh.pdf”. In the body of the email there is
the text:

“[…] Attached is 2 Police report with legal documents Will show how I.I.I., (…)
was in parallel working as CTO and COO setting up a competing Company

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

( Code-less / App Foundry ) and how they manipulated the accounts in Apply to
make me look fraudulent[…]
Additional report to Judge in Criminal court 15 in Barcelona where in which
FIRA Barcelona testifies against H.H.H. for a fraudulent behavior - Falsifying
contract and invoices is alone a crime that can give 2-5 years in prison if
convicted.[…]”

-
Copy of complaint filed with the police against the claimants dated April 18
of 2019 and where the name, surnames, addresses and where facts are described
in relation to the theft of personal property and intellectual property, among others.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.
No response has been received to this letter.

THIRD: On October 20, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

On August 27, 2020, the Tax Agency Planning Service and
Institutional Relations sends to this Agency the fiscal domicile of Apply Support
SL this being Rambla Catalunya, number 66, floor 1 08007 Barcelona.

On 03/30/2021, it is verified with respect to Apply Support, S.L. in the web
www.axesor.es that:

1.

The company has the ACTIVE status.

The registered office is Rambla Catalunya, 66 1 ABC. Barcelona 08007

two.
(BARCELONA).

On March 30, 2021, a request for information is sent to Apply Support,
SL The notification is done electronically. According to this notification system,
automatic rejection has occurred after ten calendar days have elapsed since
its provision.

On March 30, 2021, a request for information is sent to J.J.J. The
notification is made by postal mail to the address ***ADDRESS.1

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

***LOCATION.1 provided by the claimant. The letter is returned by
Postal Service with the notation of "Returned to Origin by Unknown" on 12
April 2021.

Subsequently, on June 11, 2021, a request for information is sent to Apply
Support, S.L. Notification is made by post to the address Rambla
Catalunya, No. 66, 1º ABC 08007 Barcelona. The letter is returned by the Service of
Posts with the annotation of "Returned to Origin by Unknown" on the 23rd of the same
month and year.

On 06/15/2021, the Tax Agency Planning and Relations Service
Institucionales sends to this Agency the fiscal domicile and NIF of J.J.J, being its
tax domicile ***ADDRESS.1***LOCATION.1.

FIFTH: On July 26, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the
GDPR. Said agreement was notified through the public postal operator and the board
sole edict of the BOE on August 10 and 18, 2021, to the claimed party.

SIXTH: Formal notification of the initiation agreement, the claimed party at the time of
this resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On June 23, 2020, the complaining party declares the sending of
emails by the claimed party, sole administrator of the company
Apply Support S.L., revealing personal data of the complaining party in the context
of a series of facts that are being the subject of criminal proceedings, without their
knowledge or your consent or any other legal basis for it. receivers
of the information are third-party companies that maintain business relationships with the
company for which the claimants currently work, the purpose of the claims being
communications precisely to damage and break such business relationships.

SECOND: It is accredited that the emails, in addition to containing in
the body itself information of a personal nature, contain attached a report
which clearly contains personal data of the claimants and
information relating to criminal proceedings.

THIRD: The complaining party provides a copy of two of the emails and
copy of police complaint against the claimants dated April 18, 2019

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

and where names, surnames, addresses are stated and where facts are described in
relation to the theft of personal property and intellectual property, among others.

FOURTH: On July 26, 2021, this sanctioning procedure was initiated by the
alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, being notified on August 18, 2021.
Not having made allegations, the claimed party, to the initial agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

The defendant is charged with the commission of an infringement due to infringement
of article 6.1 of the RGPD, which indicates the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

In accordance with the evidence available, it is considered proven
that the party complained against proceeded to spread data through emails
claims of the complaining party, attaching a police report containing their
personal data and information relating to criminal proceedings, without a legal basis for
it.

The recipients of the information are third-party companies that maintain
business relationships with the company for which the claimants work
currently, the purpose of communications being precisely that of damaging and
break such business relationships.

Therefore, it is verified that the defendant spread through the
emails the personal data of the complaining party, and therefore it is
responsible for the breach of confidentiality when disseminating said data, therefore
that is considered to have violated article 6.1 due to unlawful data processing
of the complaining party, in relation to article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs
the principles of integrity and confidentiality of personal data, as well as the
proactive responsibility of the controller to demonstrate its
compliance.

IV

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
costs for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article.
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of €20,000,000 at most.
or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.”

The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates: "Each control authority will have all

the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation.
glament;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.”

Points out in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

There are no previous sanctions to the claimed party, its activity is not the

usual data processing.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D. J.J.J, (APPLY SUPPORT S.L.) with NIF ***NIF.1, for a
infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to D. J.J.J, (APPLY SUPPORT S.L.)
with NIF ***NIF.1.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

