1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00093/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: COMMAND OF ***LOCALITY.1 (*hereinafter, the claimant) with
On November 4, 2020, he filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. The claim is directed against the FRIGORIFICA entity
BOTANA, S.L. with CIF B15726938 (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in which
the claim is based on are succinctly the following:

“Dated 11/20/19 as a result of an operation (…) Civil Guard agents
person in the dependencies of the company Frigorífica Botánica SL to carry out a study
of traceability of the frozen Norway lobster that was deposited there and that was
immobilized (...) so the manager sets up a meeting room for the Agents.

“Attached to the allegations is a recording made to the Agents
in the company meeting room. Said audio (video) recording was taken on
11/20/19 (Written arguments presented are attached, having a copy of all
it and in the aforementioned Court).

As can be seen in the following images of the Company's facade
that are attached DOES NOT have an informative badge with the mandatory information
(…)

Therefore, audio recording is considered a measure that does not respond to the
principle of proportionality contained in the LOPDGDD, which violates the right
to privacy recognized in the CE and violates the secrecy of communications (...)
being for all this illegal”.

“It is also worth highlighting art. 8 LOPDGDD that regulates the treatment by

legal obligation, public interest or exercise of public powers (...)”

Together with the claim, provide a written copy of the allegations presented in the

Contentious-administrative Court (***LOCATION.1-Doc- nº1 --.

SECOND: On 01/12720, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the entity
denounced, which proceeds to answer on 01/01/21.

THIRD. The defendant makes the corresponding allegations on 01/01/21
requesting the annulment of the proceedings.

FOURTH: On 02/23/21, the claim was admitted for processing.
diate act of the Director of this Agency, in accordance with the provisions of the article
Article 65 LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FIFTH: On April 23, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

SIXTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations on 05/11/21 in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“According to what has been provided in response to the request made by this
Agency, FRIGORIFICA BOTANA, S.L. yes, it has posters in its facilities
that report the existence of video surveillance, in the terms required by the regulations.
application mat. Such posters are not only located at the entrance to the facilities,
but in different spaces of the cold store, in such a way that the
agents having carried out their inspection throughout the warehouse space were ple-
aware of the existence of a closed internal video surveillance circuit.

The agents of the authority can be recorded in the exercise of their functions.
nes. Public authorities do not enjoy fundamental rights in the exercise of
their positions, but such rights are recognized to citizens as limits
to your activity.

Therefore, the recording of the agents of the authority in the exercise of their
functions in itself does not constitute an illegitimate or disproportionate treatment of
the personal data of the agents.

The camera is located in a space that is not accessed by workers.
and has different uses apart from sound and image recording (video conferencing).
national and international references). The meeting room is only accessible by staff from
senior management of the company being an area of execution and management of activities
essential management, therefore, its use is proportionate to the purposes pursued.

The use of the recordings was exclusively judicial, within the framework of a
procedure where the actions of the acting agents were expressly analyzed.
and complainants, in order to clarify the facts contained.

Therefore, the complaint made by the agents to this Agency seems to have
have the purpose of avoiding or limiting the judicial actions deployed by the Court of
the Contentious-Administrative No. 2 of ***LOCALIDAD.1, and the jurisdictional control of
his professional performance in the facilities of FRIGORIFICA BOTANA, S.L. It is-
In other words, it is a complaint that seems to be used for a purpose other than protection.
tion of personal data”.

SEVENTH: On 07/23/21, a “Resolution Proposal” is issued confirming
ma the described infringement of art. 5.1 c) GDPR, proposing an initial encrypted sanction
in the amount of €4,000, given the seriousness of the facts exposed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

EIGHTH: When the database of this organization was consulted on 09/05/21, no
received any response in this regard, nor any additional documentation
provided.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim presented by the Civil Guard
(Comandancia ***LOCALIDAD.1) that they indicate to have been recorded in a room of
meetings by the company Frigorifica Botana S.L. without informing them about it,
carrying out a treatment of the personal data of the agents outside the cases
permitted by law.

Second. It is identified as the main person responsible for the Frigorifi-
ca Botana S.L. which does not deny the presence of the camera, pointing out that the agents
"They were recorded in the exercise of their functions."

Third. The data of the Civil Guard Agents were processed and transferred to
contentious-administrative court where a video is presented in court
of the Contentious-administrative No. 2 (***LOCATION.1) with audio and video of the same
mos.

Bedroom. It is proven that the defendant has informative posters in the
access area to the facilities, but not in the meeting room where
carried out investigative tasks by the acting force.

Fifth. The Civil Guard agents were not informed in any way of the
presence of a camera outside the security system inside the
meetings, nor were they told the cause/reason for proceeding to the recording of the
images.

Sixth. No "abusive" situation has been found that could legitimize the use
of the images, limiting the issue to merely administrative aspects
related to the presumed illegality of the search carried out in the facilities of the
claimed.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the substance of the matter, it should be noted that the request for annulment of
situations of the search carried out by the Civil Guard (Comandancia ***LOCALIDAD.1)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

It is an issue that is subject to analysis in a contentious-administrative court,
this being a matter to be resolved in court, without the reason being clarified
provision of documentary evidence (video) to discuss an alleged act
irregular situation of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

One thing is an alleged illegality of an administrative act and quite another
presumed criminal action of the Acting Force, an aspect that is not the responsibility
you to determine it by this Agency.

The images of the Agents as public employees are not without gravity.
tion, as the respondent correctly affirms, although not in all cases and with
certain limitations, such as the case of conversations or interrogations
made by them.

A videoconference is a simultaneous two-way communication of audio and video,
that allows remote meetings with groups of people, through
a network such as the Internet.

The videoconference can be used to hold meetings, provide teletraining,
provide health care to a patient, present a service or product, advise
fiscal, labor or legal to clients, etc.

With regard to privacy, online communication via videoconference
does not differ too much from what is usually done in person, now
well, we must bear in mind that there will be particular issues and elements that must be
we will respect for it to take place in a safe environment that respects privacy
data subject, and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information
(including personal).

The claim itself determines the nature of the camera "make videoconference"
international references for commercial reasons” not forming part of the prison system.
cameras installed for reasons of safety of the installations, but for professional purposes.
nals related to the activity of the aforementioned company.

It goes without saying that a mere indication a few moments before would have sufficed.
recording, indicating the reason(s) for making them, including the arguments
mentioning “to avoid irregularities”, but the Agents acting must be aware of
before the audio (video) recording made in the room in question, as it entails the
itself a "treatment of your data" without any clarification having been made.

The work of the Civil Guard agents in inspection tasks is not
part of the commercial activity of the defendant, so that the cameras were used
cited for a purpose other than their own: commercial tasks related to
related to the business activity.

For the foregoing reasons, the arguments put forward should be dismissed.
in the exercise of the right to defense (art. 24 CE), without being able to speak of defenselessness.
any pressure at the time of exposing the outlined claims.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

III

In the present case, the claim dated 11/04/20 is examined by me-
gave from which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“absence of informative signs indicating that it is a video zone

guarded”

The initial facts are specified in the absence of indi-
When it is a video-monitored area, when the images are recorded
of the members of the Security Forces and Bodies inside a room of
meetings.

The system was provided with audio recording, the conversion being recorded.
sation that took place in said meeting, without the agents of the authority being
trained about it.

This type of camera is limited to company personnel, and their
informed use in a "clear and express" manner, an issue that was not carried out, since the Agents
authorities although they observed the same, they were not informed of the recordings
tion of the conversations produced.

The law vetoes the installation of sound recording and video surveillance systems in
the places intended for the rest of the workers, such as changing rooms, toilets and
dining rooms.

As far as sound capture and recording devices are concerned, their
use will only be allowed when the risks are relevant to the safety
ity of the facilities, goods and people derived from the activity carried out
lle in the workplace. In any case, the principles must always be respected.
of proportionality and minimal intervention.

Article 5 section 1 GDPR “Principles related to treatment” provides that: “The
personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

Likewise, the installation of the camera system(s) denounced may suppose a “trade
use of images” (personal data) of third parties without just cause, to the power
bar and preserve their images, thereby affecting their right to privacy.
half.

It is a criterion maintained by this body that with this type of device there is no
private conversations are recorded, even less surreptitiously, unaware
do the parties that in the meeting room the system was operational and recorded
(audio Video).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

The only exception to this rule applies if the recordings have been
judicially authorized and, in any case, must be carried out by qualified professionals.
specially designated for this task.

IV

In accordance with the clear evidence available in this pro-
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has a system of
(audio/video) disproportionately in a meeting room, having
"processed data" of the acting Agents without just cause and without informing them in advance.
mind in legal form.

The documentary evidence provided by the acting force is considered sufficient.
enough to undermine the presumption of innocence of the respondent, whose allegations
have done nothing but confirm the diversion of purpose in the "processing of images" ob-
held in a meeting room, where without prior warning they were recorded without in-
educate them in advance about the cause/reason for such filming.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.

mado, for violation of the content of art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

Article 83.5 letter a) RGPD provides the following:

v

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

to)

basic principles for treatment, including conditions for con-
sentiment under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated on the
previous paragraph is considered very serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with article
72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

-the nature of the infraction by having a video-surveillance system that
has the audio recording modality, dealing with data of natural persons
identifiable (art. 83.5 a) RGPD).

-the intentionality or negligence of the infraction, the camera(s) was not due-
signaled mind (s) of the treatment or the purpose of obtaining the images, which
which makes the behavior be considered "negligent" for the reasons stated (art.
83.5 b) GDPR).

The images obtained with the recording cameras installed in a room
of meeting of the claimed were used without informing of the purpose of the treatment,
producing a "data treatment" that does not fit the initial purpose of these:
commercial purposes related to the activity of the company.

For all these reasons, a pecuniary penalty is proposed in the amount of
€4,000 (Four Thousand Euros), for the infringement of art. 5.1 c) RGPD, sanction located in the
lower scale for this type of infraction.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity FRIGORIFICA BOTANA, S.L., with CIF
B15726938, for an infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €4,000 (Four Thousand Euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to FRIGORIFICA BOTANA, S.L. and
REPORT the result of the actions to the claimant COMMANDANCE OF
***LOCATION.1.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

