1/17

Litigation Chamber
 
Decision on the merits 24/2020 of 14 May 2020

 

 

 
File number: DOS-2019-02902
 
Subject: Lack of transparency in a company's privacy statement
insurance
 
The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke
Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Dirk Van Der Kelen and Jelle Stassijns, members;
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the
data protection) (hereinafter the "GDPR");
 
Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the
"LCA";
 
Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on
December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;
 
Considering the documents in the file;
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

made the following decision regarding:

-
-

X, hereinafter “the plaintiff”;
Y, hereinafter "the defendant".
 
 

a) Facts and procedure

1. On June 14, 2019, the complainant filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority

against the defendant.

2. The subject of the complaint relates to the use of health data obtained from the person
concerned by the insurance company within the framework of hospitalization insurance
other purposes, without the express consent of the insured person concerned. The complainant
asserts that the processing of his health data for the fulfillment of obligations
arising from the hospitalization insurance concluded with the defendant does not pose any
problem, but that it is different when these same health data are processed for
the purposes listed in point 4.3. of the respondent's privacy statement and for
the transfer to third parties as mentioned in point 9 of this same declaration of
confidentiality (this is point 6, the reference to point 9 is a clerical error). He
requests that, specifically for these purposes, as well as for the transfer, the defendant
gives the data subject the choice of whether or not to consent to the processing of their personal data.
health. Finally, the complainant expresses his wish to receive an impact assessment from the respondent
relating to data protection, since it concerns the processing of personal data
involving a high risk for the persons concerned.

3. On June 26, 2019, the complaint is declared admissible on the basis of articles 58 and 60 of the LCA,
the complainant is informed of this under Article 61 of the LCA and the complaint is forwarded to the
Litigation Division under Article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

4. On July 23, 2019, the Litigation Division decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and

article 98 of the LCA, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

5. On July 24, 2019, the parties concerned are informed by registered letter of the
provisions as set out in article 95, § 2 as well as in article 98 of the LCA. In accordance
in article 99 of the LCA, the parties concerned were also informed of the deadlines for
report their findings. The deadline for receiving the conclusions in reply has thus
was set for October 7, 2019 for the complainant and November 7, 2019 for the respondent.

 

 

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

6. On July 29, 2019, the defendant notified the Litigation Chamber that he had taken cognizance
of the complaint, he requests a copy of the file (art. 95, § 2, 3° of the LCA) and he agrees to
receive any communication relating to the case by electronic means (art. 98, 1° of the LCA).

7. On July 30, 2019, a copy of the file is sent to the defendant.

8. On August 2, 2019, the Litigation Division received a letter in which the defendant expressed

his wish to be heard by the Litigation Chamber (art. 98, 2° of the LCA).

9. On September 6, 2019, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in response from the
respondent. In these submissions, the Respondent asserts that the treatment of categories
particulars of personal data, in this case health data, by a
health care insurance organization is carried out in a lawful manner. The treatment of these
special categories of personal data (Art. 9 GDPR) is in principle
forbidden. For this processing, the defendant invokes the exception ground of Article 9,
paragraph 2, point a) of the GDPR. The legal basis invoked here is consent.
explicitly from the data subject. Second, the defendant argues that a
separate consent is not required for each personal data transfer
staff. Third, the Respondent considers that there is no question of requesting the
consent for the processing of data other than health data. Finally, the
respondent submits that a data protection impact assessment is not
necessary in this case, since these are already existing processing operations and not new ones.
treatments started after May 25, 2018.

 
10. The Complainant did not make use of the right to lodge submissions in reply.

11. The Respondent does not introduce new conclusions and only provides, on November 7
2019, exhibits to support the submissions in response submitted on September 6, 2019.

12. On January 9, 2020, the parties are informed that the hearing will take place on January 28, 2020.

13. On January 28, 2020, the defendant was heard by the Litigation Chamber. Although duly
summoned, the complainant did not appear. The defendant responds inter alia to the questions
of the Litigation Chamber on the legal basis for the processing of data to
personal character that are not health data. After that, the debates are closed.

14. On January 29, 2020, the minutes of the hearing are submitted to the parties.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

15. On January 31, 2020, as requested during the hearing, the Respondent transmits
the annual turnover for the last three financial years. For the years 2016-2018, this figure
turnover always amounts to between 500 and 600 million euros.

16. On February 6, 2020, the Litigation Chamber received from the Respondent some remarks relating

in the minutes which it decides to include in its deliberation.

17. On March 25, 2020, the Litigation Division informed the defendant of its intention to
proceed with the imposition of an administrative fine as well as the amount thereof, in order to
give the defendant the opportunity to defend himself before the penalty is effectively
inflicted.

18. On May 8, 2020, the Litigation Chamber received the defendant's reaction concerning the intention

to impose an administrative fine and the amount thereof.
 

19. Respondent submits that the alleged offenses as contained in the intent of
the Litigation Chamber are completely new and that he was unable to defend himself in this regard.
The Litigation Division notes, however, that it is undeniably apparent from the documents of the
file that the defendant was able to fully exercise his rights of defence.
 

20. The defendant declares that he does not agree with the imposition of a fine or with the amount
consideration of the fine. However, he does not put forward any (new) argument to support this
position. Therefore, in the eyes of the Litigation Chamber, the defendant's reaction does not give
not give rise to an adaptation of the intention to impose an administrative fine, nor to a
modification of the amount of the fine as envisaged.

b) Legal basis

• Lawfulness of processing

 

 

 

 

 

 

Article 6.1 GDPR
 
1. Processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the following conditions is
filled:
a) the data subject has consented to the processing of his or her personal data for one or
several specific purposes;
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or
the execution of pre-contractual measures taken at the latter's request;

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller
treatment is submitted;
[…]
f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller
processing or by a third party, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms prevail
of the data subject who require protection of personal data, in particular
when the data subject is a child.
 
Point (f) of the first paragraph does not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in
the execution of their missions.
 

•

Transparent Information
 

Article 5.1 GDPR:
Personal data must be:
a) processed in a lawful, fair and transparent manner with regard to the data subject ("lawfulness,
loyalty, transparency");
[…]
 
 
Article 5.2 GDPR:
 
2. The controller is responsible for compliance with paragraph 1 and is able to
demonstrate that it is respected ("responsibility")
 
Article 12.1 of the GDPR.
 
1. The controller shall take appropriate measures to provide any information referred to
in Articles 13 and 14 as well as to carry out any communication under Articles 15 to 22 and
of article 34 with regard to the treatment to the data subject in a concise manner,
transparent, understandable and easily accessible, in clear and simple terms, in particular
for any information intended specifically for a child. Information is provided in writing
or by other means including, where appropriate, electronically. When the person
concerned so requests, the information may be provided orally, provided that
the identity of the data subject is demonstrated by other means.
 
 
 

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

Article 13.1 and 2. of the GDPR
 
1. When personal data relating to a data subject is collected
with this person, the data controller provides him, at the time when the data in question
question are obtained, all of the following information:

[…]
c) the processing purposes for which the personal data are intended as well as

the legal basis for the processing;

d) where the processing is based on Article 6(1)(f), the legitimate interests

sued by the controller or a third party;

[…]

2. In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall provide the data subject
data subject, at the time the personal data is obtained, the information
following additional information that is necessary to ensure fair and transparent treatment
:
[…]
b) the existence of the right to request from the controller access to personal data
personal information, rectification or erasure thereof, or limitation of processing relating to the
data subject, or the right to object to processing and the right to data portability;
[…]
 
 

e) Motivation

 
a) Purposes in point 4.3. of the privacy statement - Basis of the

processing (Art. 6.1 GDPR)

 

21. The Litigation Chamber finds that the problem presented by the complainant concerns
point 4.3 of the defendant's privacy statement, which mentions that data
of a personal nature are processed on the basis of the legitimate interest of the company
insurance for the following purposes:
• Performing computerized tests;
• Service quality control;
• Staff training;
• Monitoring and reporting;
• Prevention of abuse and fraud;
• The retention of video surveillance recordings during the legal period
• Establishment of coded data statistics, including big data;

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

 

 

 

• Dissemination of information, whatever the means of communication, on the actions
commercial, products and services of the insurance company and the group
to which she belongs. [Editor's note: The passages in italics have been freely translated by the
Secretariat of the Authority, in the absence of an official translation]

22. The complainant states in this regard that the client must have the choice to accept the treatment of
sensitive data concerning him and which he has provided to the defendant in the context of the enforcement
obligations relating to his hospitalization insurance, for the purposes listed in point
4.3. The Complainant asserts that the Respondent does not offer him this possibility of choice.

23. The defendant declares in this respect that the processing operations listed in point 4.3. of the statement
of confidentiality do not require any consent, given that for the purposes which
are mentioned therein, the defendant invokes the legitimate interest as the basis for the processing,
in accordance with Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR. The Respondent asserts that it can rely on this basis
legal, since only "ordinary" personal data is processed for these
purposes and that no consent of the person concerned is required as in the case
health data as referred to in Article 9 of the GDPR.

24. The defendant argues that for the purposes mentioned in point 4.3 of the declaration of
confidentiality, personal data is certainly processed, but not data
health.
 

25. The Litigation Chamber notes that for the processing of personal data
other than health data, the lawfulness of the processing must be analyzed in the light of
Article 6.1 of the GDPR, which provides for six ancillary processing bases, including the legitimate interest
(Art. 6.1.f) of the GDPR), which the defendant invokes in this case.
 

26. In this respect, the Litigation Chamber nevertheless draws attention to the fact that when a
responsible for the processing relies on the legitimate interest to qualify a processing as lawful,
the case law of the European Court of Justice provides "three cumulative conditions for
that a processing of personal data is lawful, namely, firstly, the
pursuit of a legitimate interest by the controller or by the third party or third parties to whom
the data is communicated, secondly, the necessity of the data processing to
personal character for the achievement of the legitimate interest pursued and, thirdly, the

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

 

 

 

provided that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person concerned by the
data protection do not prevail."1

27. In this context, it is necessary to balance the interests or freedoms and rights
of the data subject (Art. 6.1.f) of the GDPR) taking into account, during this
weighting, of the recitals of the GDPR related to Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR, in particular the
recital 47..2

28. Thus, the Litigation Division considers that for each of the purposes mentioned in point
4.3. of the privacy statement, it should be checked to what extent the defendant
may invoke legitimate interest as the legal basis on which the processing is based.
Recital 47 of the GDPR emphasizes the need for careful assessment in order to
determine whether there is a legitimate interest and whether a data subject can reasonably
expect, at the time and in the context of the collection of personal data, to
that they are processed for a given purpose.

29. On the basis of the elements available to it, the Litigation Chamber considers that the defendant
may base the processing of data on the legitimate interest for the purpose "the prevention of
abuse and fraud", as mentioned in part 5 of point 4.3. of the declaration of
confidentiality. It is in fact established that the processing of personal data for
this purpose is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interest of the defendant and that this interest
prevails over the complainant's interest in the protection of his personal data. In this
In this regard, the Litigation Chamber refers to recital 47 of the GDPR which states that the
processing of personal data strictly necessary for prevention purposes
fraud constitutes a legitimate interest of the data controller concerned.

                                                
1 Judgment of 4 May 2017, Rīgas satiksme, C‑13/16, EU:C:2017:336, paragraph 28; judgment of 11 December 2019, C-708/18, Asociaţia de
Proprietari block M5A-ScaraA, ECLI:EU:C:2019:1064, point 40. These judgments were delivered on the basis of Article 7.1.f) of the
Directive 95/46/EC, currently replaced by Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR.
2 (47) The legitimate interests of a controller, including those of a controller to whom the data
of a personal nature may be communicated, or of a third party may constitute a legal basis for the processing, to
unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject prevail, taking into account the expectations
reasonable grounds of data subjects based on their relationship with the controller. Such legitimate interest
could, for example, exist where there is a relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the controller
processing in situations such as where the data subject is a customer of the controller or is
at his service. In any case, the existence of a legitimate interest should be carefully assessed, in particular
in order to determine whether a data subject can reasonably expect, at the time and in the context of the collection of the
personal data, that they are processed for a given purpose. Interests and rights
fundamental rights of the data subject could, in particular, prevail over the interest of the controller when
personal data is processed in circumstances where data subjects do not expect
reasonably not to further processing. Since it is for the legislator to provide by law the legal basis
for the processing of personal data by public authorities, this legal basis should not apply
processing carried out by public authorities in the performance of their duties. Data processing at
personal character strictly necessary for the purposes of fraud prevention also constitutes a legitimate interest of the
data controller concerned. The processing of personal data for commercial prospecting purposes
can be considered to be carried out to meet a legitimate interest.
 

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

 

 

 

 

30. The Litigation Chamber adds to this that despite the Respondent's assertion that no
health data is only processed for the purposes listed in point 4.3. of the declaration of
confidentiality, the purpose of which is "the prevention of abuse and fraud", it nevertheless emerges
clearly from the consent form that express consent is requested for
the processing of health data for the purposes, among others, of "the prevention, detection and
search for insurance fraud". The Litigation Chamber notes here that there is a
inconsistency between what the respondent asserts in his pleadings and what the form
of consent stipulates, and returns to this point during the analysis of the obligation of
transparency which is incumbent on the defendant.

31. The purpose listed in section 8 of point 4.3. of the privacy statement "The
dissemination of information, whatever the means of communication, on the actions
commercial, products and services of the insurance company and the group to which
it belongs", which must be qualified as prospecting, is also possible on the basis of
legitimate interest3, but should be read in conjunction with Article 21.2 of the GDPR which provides
that the data subject has the right to object at any time to the processing of the data
of a personal nature concerning him for such prospecting purposes, including profiling
insofar as it is related to such prospecting. The Litigation Chamber will return
also on this point when analyzing the obligation of transparency on the part of the
respondent.

32. For the other purposes listed in point 4.3. of the privacy statement, the Chamber
Litigation considers that there is no question of a legitimate interest on the part of the defendant
which would prevail over the interests and the fundamental rights of the plaintiff to the protection of his
personal data.

33. Recital 47 of the GDPR, which provides that a legitimate interest may be present where there is
a relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the data controller
processing in situations such as where the data subject is a customer,
does not imply, according to the Litigation Division, that in the context of this relationship where
the plaintiff acts as a client of the defendant, data processing is possible
for any purpose. The defendant does not demonstrate in any way what would consist
its legitimate interest and also fails to demonstrate to what extent its interest
would prevail over the interests and fundamental rights of the complainant, although he is bound to do so by
under its liability (Art. 5.2 GDPR).

                                                
3 Recital 47 GDPR, last sentence.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

 

 

 

34. The Litigation Chamber therefore considers that the violation of Article 6.1 of the GDPR is
proven, given that without any demonstrated legitimate interest, the processing of data for
purposes mentioned in sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 of point 4.3. of the declaration of
confidentiality must be based on the complainant's consent, failing any other
legal basis potentially applicable to Article 6.1 of the GDPR. The diversity of
purposes listed in point 4.3. of the privacy statement brings the Chamber
Litigation to conclude that the possibility must be offered to the plaintiff, and by extension to
any data subject who uses the service offered by the defendant, whether or not to consent
to the processing of his personal data for each of these purposes
distinctly. The Litigation Chamber refers in this respect to the Guidelines on the
consent within the meaning of Regulation 2016/6794, which state the following: A service may
involve multiple processing operations for different purposes. In such cases, the
data subjects should be free to choose which purposes they accept, rather
than having to consent to a set of processing purposes. Under the GDPR, many
Consents may be required before a service can be provided in a case
given.

b) Purposes in point 6 of the privacy statement - Basis of processing

(Art. 6.1 GDPR)
 

35. In addition to point 4.3. of the privacy statement, the complainant states that a problem arises
also arises with regard to point 6 of this privacy statement, which deals
the transfer of personal data to third parties, because there too, he is not offered
the choice of whether or not to consent to the transfer of their personal data to third parties. the
Complainant asserts that transfers to third parties are not permitted without consent, except
if there is a legal obligation to do so.

36. The Respondent argues that it is not only relying on consent as a legal ground
for the transfer of personal data to third parties, but also, depending on the case,

                                                
4 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Guidelines on consent under the Regulation
2016/679, p. 11:
Recital 43 clarifies that consent is presumed not to have been freely given if the process/procedure
obtaining consent does not allow data subjects to give separate consent to different
personal data processing operations (e.g. only for certain processing operations and
not for others) although it is appropriate in the present case. Recital 32 states that "The consent given
should apply to all processing activities for the same purpose(s). When the processing has more than one purpose,
consent should be given for all of them".
If the data controller has grouped together several processing purposes and has not sought to obtain consent
separate for each purpose, freedom is limited. This need to detail the consent is closely linked to the need
the consent is specific, as described in section 3.2 below. In order to comply with the conditions for obtaining
of a valid consent when the data processing is carried out for different purposes, it is necessary to detail the
consent, i.e. to differentiate its different purposes and to obtain consent for each of them.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

the execution of the contract, the legitimate interest and the legal obligation and specifies systematically for
each of the categories of third parties mentioned in point 6 of the privacy statement on
legal basis on which the transfer is based.

37. Respondent makes it clear that insofar as this is a transfer of data from
health, the explicit consent of the data subject is required. This is only the case
for the transfer to "insurance intermediaries, for data relating to health,
compensation statements and in the copy of the insurance contract with any exclusions
and/or additional bonuses, if the person concerned has previously given their
explicit and informed consent" (point 6, second part of the declaration of
confidentiality). For the other transfers mentioned in point 6 of the declaration of
confidentiality, the defendant asserts that these are other personal data that
health data, so that for these the consent of the person concerned
is not required.

38. The Litigation Chamber observes that health data is only processed in a
only case and that the defendant obtains for this purpose the consent for the transfer mentioned
in point 6, second section, so that no problem arises in this respect and that the
defendant acts in accordance with Article 9.2.a) of the GDPR.

39. The defendant invokes the performance of the contract (Art. 6.1.b) of the GDPR) as a legal basis
for the transfer to the following third parties: "Mutualities, to allow reimbursements;
One or more insurance companies in the event of co-insurance, assistance and/or
recovery of costs in the event of liability of a third party when the damage occurs
; banking institutions; Postal, transport and delivery companies for
better send our mail" (6, third, fourth, eighth and ninth sections of the
Confidentiality declaration). The Litigation Chamber considers that these transfers are based
on a valid legal basis.

40. The same applies to transfers to third parties pursuant to a legal obligation (Art.
6.1.c) of the GDPR), namely transfers: "to the insurance mediator in the event of a dispute; to
tax and social security authorities, due to the legal obligations of the health care insurer
health  ; to the public surveillance and control authorities, because of the obligations
statutes of the insurance company" (point 6, seventh, tenth, eleventh and twelfth
sections of the privacy statement).

41. For the transfer to "insurance intermediaries, for statistical purposes, of coded data
which they will explain and produce at the request of the data subject" (point 6, first

 

 

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

section of the privacy statement), the respondent argues that this would be
purely statistical information that does not contain personal data. The
The Litigation Chamber does not have any document attesting to the contrary.

42. The Litigation Division notes, however, that both for the transfer to "W companies
to which the insurance company belongs, for monitoring and reporting" and for the
transfer to "subcontractors in the European Union or outside, responsible for the activities of
treatment defined by the insurance company", the defendant invokes his legitimate interest
as the legal basis for the processing.

43. However, the defendant does not demonstrate in any way what his legitimate interest would consist of
and also fails to demonstrate to what extent its interest would prevail over the interests
and the fundamental rights of the plaintiff, although he is required to do so by virtue of his responsibility
(Art. 5.2 and 24 GDPR). The Litigation Chamber also once again draws attention to
this regard on the requirements for the use of the basis of processing "interest
legitimate", which derive from the above-mentioned case law of the European Court of Justice.5

44. The Litigation Chamber therefore considers that also with regard to the transfer
of personal data to third parties, the violation of Article 6.1 of the GDPR
is proven, since in the absence of any demonstrated legitimate interest, the processing of personal data
for transfers to third parties mentioned in sections 5 and 6 listed in point 6 of the
privacy statement must be based on the consent of the complainant, failing any
other potentially applicable legal basis in Article 6.1 of the GDPR.

c) Transparent information (art. 5.1.a), art. 12.1 and art. 13.1 and 13.2 GDPR)

 
 
Item 4.3. of the privacy statement
 

-

45. Under the GDPR, the controller is required to inform the data subject
in a concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible manner, in terms
clear and simple" (art. 5.1.a), art. 12.1 and art. 13.1 of the GDPR).
notes that with regard to points 4.3. and 6 of the privacy statement, the
defendant fails to fulfill this obligation.

 

 

 

 
 

 

                                                
5 See footnote 1, above.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

46. First of all, the defendant fails to draw a clear distinction between the processing of data
on the one hand and the processing of other "ordinary" personal data
on the other hand, for each of the purposes of point 4.3. of the declaration of
confidentiality only for each of the transfers mentioned in point 6 of the declaration of
confidentiality. Such a distinction is nevertheless of fundamental importance for
determine the legal basis on which the processing can be based for a purpose
determined or a transfer to a third party (Art. 13.1.c) of the GDPR).
 

47. The defendant stipulates in point 4 of the privacy statement: "Data of a personal nature
personal may be processed for the following purposes:" Health data is
however also personal data, so that it can indeed be deduced from this,
as the Complainant asserts, that Section 4.3. therefore concerns health data. the
consent is indeed requested for the processing of health data and the defendant
then invokes "legitimate interest" in point 4.3. of the privacy statement in order to
process "personal data" for the purposes mentioned therein. In the
section 4.3., the respondent makes no distinction between personal data
"ordinary" and health data.

48. The defendant further creates confusion by claiming that it does not process health data for
the purpose referred to in section 4.3. "the prevention of abuse and fraud", while the
consent form nevertheless mentions that explicit consent is
requested to process health data for the purposes in particular of "the prevention, detection
and investigation of insurance fraud".

49. Furthermore, the privacy statement only mentions that for the purposes
mentioned in point 4.3., personal data is processed on the basis of
the legitimate interest of the defendant, without demonstrating what precisely this interest would consist of
legitimate, whereas Article 13.1.d) of the GDPR does require that the data controller
processing informs the data subject about his or her legitimate interests, if the processing
is based on Article 6(1)(f).

50. The Litigation Chamber also refers to the Guidelines on transparency in the
meaning of Regulation (EU) 2016/6679, which emphasize that the specific interest in question must
be determined in the interest of the data subject.

 

 
 

 

 

                                                
6 Guidelines on transparency within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Article 29 Working Party on the protection
Data, Approved November 29, 2017, last reviewed and approved April 11, 2018, p. 43.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

51. As a matter of good practice, the controller may also, prior to the collection of
personal data of the data subject, provide the data subject with
information on the weighting that should be done in order to be able to use Article 6,
paragraph 1(f) as the legal basis for the processing. To avoid drowning
information to the person concerned, this information may be included in
opinions/statements on the protection of privacy7 at different levels. Information
provided to data subjects must demonstrate that they may receive
weighting information on request. This is an essential aspect for a
effective transparency when data subjects have doubts about the fairness of the
weighting carried out or wish to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority.

52. The Litigation Division further notes that the confidentiality statement does not mention
not the possibility for the data subject to exercise his right of opposition. That constitutes
a breach of Article 12.1 of the GDPR which provides that the controller must
take appropriate measures to inform the data subject, in particular of his
right of opposition guaranteed in article 21.2 of the GDPR.

53. For the purpose mentioned in section 8 of point 4.3. of the privacy statement "The
dissemination of information, whatever the means of communication, on the actions
commercial, products and services of the insurance company and the group to which
it belongs", which must be qualified as prospecting, article 21.2 of the GDPR prescribes that the
data subject has the right to object at any time to the processing of personal data.
personal character concerning him for such prospecting purposes, including profiling in
insofar as it is linked to such prospecting. It does not appear from any document that the plaintiff
been informed of his right to object to the processing of his personal data to
prospecting purposes. This constitutes a violation of Article 13.2.b) of the GDPR.

-

Point 6 of the privacy statement

54. Point 6 of the privacy statement also does not always mention the
legal basis for the transfer to each of the different categories of third parties. As
legal basis, only consent is mentioned (Art. 6.1.a) GDPR) in point
6, second section; reference is made to the legal obligations of the defendant in point 6, tenth and
eleventh sections; we refer to the legal obligation to which the data subject is
subject, where applicable, for the payment of international tax (Art. 6.1.c) of the GDPR) to the
point 6, twelfth section.

 

 

 

 

                                                
7 See paragraph 35 of the Guidelines referred to in footnote 6.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

 

 

 

 

 

55. For other cases of transfers to third parties, point 6 of the privacy statement does not

mentions no legal basis.

56. On the other hand, this is the case in the submissions provided by the Respondent in the context of the
procedure before the Litigation Chamber, where the basis of the processing is indicated for
each transfer mentioned in point 6 of the privacy statement. In order to
transparency, the basis for processing all transfers must be disclosed
in the privacy statement in order for the respondent to comply with its obligation under
of Article 13.1.c) of the GDPR. However, this is not the case, so the Chamber
Litigation considers that there is a violation of Article 13.1.c) of the GDPR.

57. Still with regard to point 6 of the privacy statement, the Respondent
does not indicate in its argument what would be its legitimate interest, which it invokes, in processing
the personal data of the complainant for the purpose of their transfer to "companies of
W to which the insurance company belongs, for monitoring and reporting purposes" and
to "subcontractors in the European Union or outside, responsible for the activities of
treatment defined by the insurance company". Article 13.1.d) of the GDPR requires
nevertheless that the data controller informs the data subject about his
legitimate interest if the processing is based on Article 6(1)(f). In this regard, the
Litigious Chamber refers again to the Guidelines on transparency within the meaning
of Regulation (EU) 2016/8679 and the aforementioned elements in this regard.

58. All these findings lead the Litigation Chamber to consider that the defendant did not
not fulfilled its obligations under Article 13.1.c) and d) of the GDPR as well as Article
13.2.b) of the GDPR because he did not provide the required information to the complainant and he did not take
the adequate measures so that the complainant receives the information relating to the processing
referred to in Articles 13 and 21.2 of the GDPR, as prescribed by Article 12.1 of the GDPR.

59. It follows that the Respondent did not respect the basic principle that the data
personal data must be processed in a fair, lawful and transparent manner with regard to
of the data subject (article 5.1.a) of the GDPR). Furthermore, to the extent that the defendant
invokes its legitimate interest as the legal basis for the data processing
aforementioned, he does not satisfy his responsibility (art. 5.2 of the GDPR) and the legitimate interest cannot
therefore not be considered as a valid legal basis within the meaning of Article 6.1 of the
GDPR.

                                                
8 See footnote 6.
 

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

 

 

  

 

 

 

d) Data protection impact assessment

60. The complainant wishes to have access to the impact assessment relating to data protection (see
after DPIA) of the defendant. The complainant considers that a DPIA is mandatory for the
defendant, given that it is a question of processing involving a high risk for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons.

61. The Respondent emphasizes, however, that it is not required to carry out a DPIA, since it already deals with
health data as part of its processing activities for years and that for
already existing processing operations, a DPIA is in principle only required if the risks for the
rights and freedoms of natural persons change after May 25, 2018. The defendant
asserts that no such change has taken place. The defendant relies in this respect on the
Recommendation of the Data Protection Authority n° 01/2018 of February 28, 2018
on data protection impact assessment and prior consultation9
and the Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment
and how to determine whether the processing is "likely to pose a high risk" to
purposes of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.10.

62. The Litigation Chamber considers that insofar as the defendant processes personal data
of health, it is indeed an existing treatment presenting a high risk, but which it
there is no indication that the risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals
have changed after May 25, 2018, taking into account the nature, scope,
context and purposes of the processing, which would require a DPIA. No violation of
article 35 and/or 36 of the GDPR cannot therefore be observed.

63. However, the Litigation Chamber adds to this that it also follows the Guidelines on this point.
aforementioned guidelines on data protection impact assessment,
which state that it is good practice to continually review and reassess
regularly a data protection impact assessment. Even if a DPIA
is not required as of 25 May 2018, it is therefore necessary that the controller
performs a DPIA at the right time as part of its general responsibility.

64. Regarding the complainant's request to obtain the DPIA in question, the Litigation Chamber
emphasizes that the GDPR does not provide for an obligation for the controller to publish

                                                
9 https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/recommandation_01_2018.pdf.
10 https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=611236.
 

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

a DPIA. The data controller decides independently whether or not to publish
the DPIA, with a view to creating trust in the processing it carries out and to demonstrate
accountability and transparency without, however, publishing the entire DPIA for this purpose.
The Litigation Chamber considers, however, that it is particularly good practice that
controllers consider publishing at least parts of their DPIA,
such as a summary or a conclusion.

65. Given that there is no communication obligation of the DPIA on the part of the defendant and,
therefore, that there is no right for the complainant to access a DPIA, the Chamber
Litigation cannot therefore grant the complainant's request to obtain the DPIA.

e) GDPR violations and penalties to be imposed

 

66. Consequences of non-compliance with responsibilities as data controller
pose a risk to the complainant's rights and freedoms. Recital 75 GDPR
provides that any "social harm" resulting from the processing of personal data
may be considered relevant under the GDPR.
 

67. The Litigation Division finds that the violation of Articles 5.1.a), 5.2, 6.1, 12.1,
13.1.c) and d) and 13.2.b) of the GDPR, is proven and that it is appropriate to order a
compliance of the processing with these articles of the GDPR (art. 58.2.d) of the GDPR and art. 100, § 1,
9° of the LCA), and to accompany these corrective measures with an administrative fine (art. 83.2
GDPR; art. 100, § 1, 13° of the LCA and art. 101 ACL).

68. The Litigation Division finds the following violations in particular:

• Violation of Article 6.1 of the GDPR:

oh

oh

the processing of data for the purposes mentioned in sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and
7 of point 4.3. of the privacy statement, without any legitimate interest
demonstrated, is not based, wrongly, on the complainant's consent, in the absence of any
other legal basis potentially applicable to Article 6.1 of the GDPR.
data processing for transfers to third parties mentioned in sections 5 and
6 times in point 6 of the privacy statement, without any legitimate interest

 

 

 
 

 

                                                
11 Guidelines of the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party on the impact assessment relating to the
Data Protection (DPIA) and how to determine whether the processing is "likely to create a high risk" to
purposes of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

demonstrated, is not based, wrongly, on the complainant's consent in the absence of any
other legal basis potentially applicable to Article 6.1 of the GDPR.

• Violation of the liability established in Article 5.2 of the GDPR, insofar as the defendant
invokes its legitimate interest as the legal basis for the data processing
specified above.

• Violation of Articles 12.1, 13.1.c) and d) of the GDPR as well as Article 13.2.b) of the GDPR, in
the extent that the Respondent failed to provide the required information to the Complainant and failed to
take the appropriate measures so that the complainant receives the information referred to in Article
13 and the communication referred to in Article 21.2 of the GDPR relating to processing, in particular.
items 4.3. and 6 of the privacy statement make no distinction
clear between the processing of health data on the one hand and the processing of other
"ordinary" personal data on the other hand.

oh

o no information is provided to the data subject about his or her interests

legitimate.

o no appropriate measure is taken to inform the data subject

oh

in particular the right to object guaranteed in article 21.2 of the GDPR.
the privacy statement does not mention the basis of processing for all
transfers.

• Violation of the basic principle established in article 5.1.a) of the GDPR according to which the data
personal character must be processed in a fair, lawful and transparent manner with regard to
of the person concerned

 

69. In addition to the corrective measure to bring the processing into conformity with Article 5.1.a),
Article 5.2, Article 6.1, Article 12.1, Article 13.1.c) and d) and Article 13.2.b) of the GDPR, the
Litigation Chamber also decides to impose an administrative fine whose purpose
is not to put an end to an offense committed but to effectively enforce the
GDPR rules. As can be seen from recital 148, the GDPR wants sanctions,
including administrative fines, be imposed in the event of serious violations, in
complement or instead of the appropriate measures that are imposed.12 The Chamber
Contentieux is acting in this way pursuant to Article 58.2.i) of the GDPR. The instrument of the fine
administrative action is therefore in no way intended to put an end to the violations. To this end, the GDPR

                                                
12 Recital 148 provides the following: "In order to reinforce the application of the rules of this Regulation, penalties
including administrative fines should be imposed for any violation of this Regulation, in addition to or
instead of appropriate measures imposed by the supervisory authority under this Regulation. In the event of a minor violation
or if the fine that may be imposed constitutes a disproportionate burden for a natural person, a reminder to
the order can be addressed rather than a fine. However, due consideration should be given to the nature, seriousness and
the duration of the violation, the intentional nature of the violation and the measures taken to mitigate the damage suffered, the
degree of responsibility or any relevant violation committed previously, of the manner in which the supervisory authority had
knowledge of the breach, compliance with the measures ordered against the controller or processor,
the application of a code of conduct, and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance. The application of sanctions
including administrative fines should be subject to appropriate procedural safeguards in accordance with the principles
general provisions of Union law and the Charter, including the right to effective judicial protection and to due process
regular.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

and the LCA provide for several corrective measures, including the orders cited in Article 100, § 1,
8° and 9° of the ACL.

70. Having regard to Article 83 of the GDPR and the case law of the Markets Court13, the Litigation Chamber

motivates the imposition of an administrative sanction in a concrete way:
-

of

gravity

the offense

The
 the reasoning set out above demonstrates the seriousness of the offence.
The duration of the infringement: it is not apparent from what the defendant has argued in the
proceedings before the Litigation Chamber that the infringement has ceased and it therefore
continued until January 25, 2020. In this regard, the Litigation Chamber does not take
into account the adjustments made after the closure of the debates concerning the
findings.
The necessary deterrent effect to prevent new offences.

:

-

-

71. With regard to the seriousness of the offense (Art. 83.2.a) of the GDPR), the Litigation Chamber
emphasizes that compliance with the principles established in Article 5 of the GDPR - in this case particularly
the principles of transparency and lawfulness as well as accountability - is essential because it
falls under the fundamental principles of data protection. The Litigation Chamber
therefore considers the defendant's violations of the principle of lawfulness which is specified in Article 6
of the GDPR and the principle of transparency which is established in Articles 12 and 13 of the GDPR as
serious violations.

72. Although no health data of data subjects is processed without the
express consent required for this purpose and although the defendant invokes another basis
legal basis for the processing of data which does not fall under a special regime of
protection under the GDPR, the Litigation Chamber considers that the relative impact
significant number of infringements observed, which concern all policyholders affiliated with the company
insurance via hospitalization insurance, must be taken into consideration when determining
the administrative fine.

73. All of the elements set out above justify an effective, proportionate and
dissuasive, as referred to in Article 83 of the GDPR, taking into account the assessment criteria that it
contains. The Litigation Chamber draws attention to the fact that the other criteria for
Article 83.2 of the GDPR are not, in this case, likely to lead to another fine
administrative than that defined by the Litigation Chamber within the framework of this
decision.

 

 

 

 

                                                
13 Brussels Court of Appeal (Market Court section), Judgment 2020/1471 of 19 February 2020.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

f) Legislative framework: relationship between free consent and communication of data

healthcare under hospitalization insurance

74. For the sake of completeness, the Litigation Chamber wishes to draw attention to the
broader issue that must be analyzed in connection with the complaint, namely the collection of
health data by insurers to potential policyholders via their explicit consent
(Art. 9.2.a) of the GDPR) in connection with the subscription and performance of insurance
hospitalization and the related question of to what extent the consent of these
insured can be free. The question arises whether, in addition to express consent, there is
there are other possible grounds for processing on the basis of which the health data
can be dealt with by the defendant when executing the hospitalization insurance.

75. Article 9, paragraph 4 of the GDPR provides that Member States may introduce
additional conditions with regard to the processing in particular of data
concerning health. The law of July 30, 2018 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data, which implements the GDPR, does not
does not contain specific provisions governing in more detail the processing of data to
sensitive personal nature in the context of insurance. The defendant points out
that a national legislative framework in this area is lacking. Currently, the House
Litigation can only agree with this position and note that the legislator should intervene
in this respect in order to provide a legal basis specific to the insurance sector which allows
the collection of health data within well-defined limits within the framework of the relationship
(pre)contractual between the insurer and the insured.

g) Publication of the decision

 

 

 

 

76. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber
Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Protection Authority
Datas. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data of the
parties are communicated directly.

 
 
FOR THESE REASONS,
 
the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:
- pursuant to Article 100, § 1, 9° of the LCA, to order the defendant to bring it into compliance
processing with Articles 5.1.a), 5.2, 6.1, 12.1, 13.1.c) and d) and 13.2.b) of the GDPR.

Decision on the merits 24/20201717

- pursuant to Article 100, § 1, 13° of the LCA and Article 101 of the LCA to impose a fine
administrative amount of 50,000 euros.
 
Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of
thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of
given as defendant.
 
 
 
(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans
President of the Litigation Chamber

