 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 3, 2020

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.414.5
 

Annual Report 2019

 
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI), Maja Smoltczyk,
publishes its annual report for 2019 today. Due to the current pandemic
Development, unfortunately, the annual press conference has to be cancelled. Questions about the annual report and
Please address interview requests to the press office at presse@datenschutz-berlin.de or
Tel: 030 13889 900.
 
General developments from the office

The workload in the Berlin authority for data protection and freedom of information has
leveled off at an unchanged, high level in 2019. So has after
Coming into effect of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in 2018 the advent
of complaints received by the authority has tripled. On average reached the authorities
almost 400 complaints a month. Thematically, these particularly often concerned the
Disregard of data subject rights, in particular the right to information or deletion.
A large proportion of the complaints received were directed at companies from the
digital economy, such as B. online shops, delivery services or social networks. Besides
shaped topics from the areas of the housing industry, health, the
Financial services and employee data protection the work of the authority in
special measure.
 
Hardly in any other area has the workload increased as much as in the so-called
data breaches. A total of 1017 such breakdowns were reported in 2019, which means that
the volume has even increased seventeen-fold since the GDPR came into effect. Whether from a
Kita stolen digital cameras, lost mail or malware attacks - the
Case constellations in the area of data breaches are diverse and often require a
immediate action (Chapter 15, p. 206).
In addition, the employees of the BlnBDI were in the past year
again with complex consultation processes in the public sector, with numerous
Press inquiries and tips from the press, with anonymous ads and reviews of
officially dealt with, as far as their completely insufficient capacities allowed.
 
The introduction of the GDPR has required numerous adjustments to state law
made, which the Berlin legislature would actually have already issued on May 25, 2018
must. Almost two years after this deadline, Berlin is now on the home stretch.
With an article law, around 80 Berlin laws and ordinances are to be passed to the
be adapted to the new legal situation. Unfortunately, important criticisms of the BlnBDI from the
lead Senate Department for the Interior and Sport has not yet been taken into account. Emotional

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

If the legislature does not take action on these points, it will in some cases lead to violations of European law
Regulations in state law come (chapter 14.1, p. 194).
 
 
Annual report topics

Data protection is an issue that affects every conceivable area of life. Accordingly
The work of the Berlin data protection authority was varied in 2019.
 
A key objective of the General Data Protection Regulation is to improve the practice of imposing
Equalize fines for violations of data protection law across the EU. On European
Level will be the specific methodology by which the data protection authorities will impose
of fines should proceed, is currently still under discussion. To at least Germany-wide
immediately a uniform, transparent and comprehensible fine practice
guarantee, the German supervisory authorities have in the managed by the BlnBDI
"Working Group Sanctions" of the Conference of Independent Germans
data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) a fine concept
drafted, which can now be applied until appropriate European guidelines
are adopted. In its annual report, the BlnBDI explains this with the economy
concept awaited with great interest (Chapter 1.4, p. 35).
 
The cooperation of the
EU data protection authorities gain momentum. The GDPR stipulates that between
the European supervisory authorities always have a so-called cooperation procedure
is carried out and intended measures are coordinated if the objected
data processing has a cross-border dimension. In the 2019 annual report, the
BlnBDI shows what this cooperation procedure looks like in practice. Based on
Practical examples are used to show the challenges of working together and
Instruments are presented that the General Data Protection Regulation provides for this (Chapter 1.5, p.
40 and chapter 14.3, p. 199).
 
The annual report dedicates a focus to the topic of artificial intelligence. The report
shows what opportunities lie in technology and what risks it poses to data protection
are connected and what urgently needs to be considered in relation to the topic. Special will be in
in this connection to the aspects of transparency and fully automated decisions
received (Chapter 1.2, p. 24).
 
Transparency was also part of the intensive consultations on the implementation of the
Online Access Act (OZG) at state level is an important issue. The OZG stipulates
that all administrative services will also be available digitally by the end of 2020. The
Digitization of administrative services, however, can only be successful
take place if the users are willing to take advantage of the digital offers. Around
To promote broad acceptance, the BlnBDI therefore campaigned among other things successful for one
adequate transparency regulation (Chapter 2.1, p. 47).
 
The BlnBDI was also consulted in the case of reappraisal of the role of the responsible
Senate administration in the accommodation of young people with pedophile men in the
as part of the so-called "Kentler Experiment". The question of whether and under which
Conditions Social data released from youth welfare files for research purposes
must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The BlnBDI was with such
repeatedly entrusted with questions in the past and was also able to do so in this one
If necessary, provide assistance (Chapter 5.5, p. 95).

 



- 3 -

 
After a somewhat bumpy start, the Berlin data protection officer was appointed in October
just in time from the Senate Department for Integration, Labor and Social Affairs
added to the data protection aspects of the so-called Night of Solidarity
discuss. When counting and especially when interviewing homeless people,
the right to informational self-determination is preserved. In particular, one
such questioning is voluntary and requires subsequent identification of individuals
interviewed persons be excluded. To take care of that, the
data protection authority will also accompany the project during follow-up counts. (Chapter 7.2, p. 114)
 
One case in which the BlnBDI was not called in in good time concerned the Berliners
Verkehrsbetriebe (BVG) and their new mobility app Jelbi. With the help of this app
various means of transport linked together in a meaningful way and the booking and
payment to be simplified. However, since doing so involves a large amount of personal data
accrues such as B. transaction and payment data of customers, is one
data protection-compliant design is essential. Unfortunately, the BVG had this in the project
development and failed to inform the data protection authority in a timely manner about the
to inform projects. Only after the project had received a great deal of media attention
had been presented to the public, the supervisory authority could subsequently carry out an examination
initiate, which led to the identification of numerous shortcomings. As is so often the case in such cases
various data protection problems have been avoidable if data protection from the beginning
would have been taken into account (Chapter 4.1, p. 79).
 
Media attention also prompted the BlnBDI to examine the rental bike
provider Mobike. She found that the company with the amount of the
The data collected from the users had overshot the mark. The processing of
However, data by the Chinese parent company is formal according to the current legal situation
Not objectionable as contracts provided for by the General Data Protection Regulation
between the two companies have been concluded. The contracts
however, the standard contractual clauses on which they are based and which are currently still permissible
just reviewed by the European Court of Justice (Chapter 4.3, p. 83).
 
A particularly serious event that the supervisory authority last year
employed, the Emotet attack was at the Berlin Superior Court. The BlnBDI monitored
the security measures taken to deal with the problems and accompanied
continue this process. In her annual report, she explains how this came about
Malware infestation can come and what lessons authorities and public bodies can learn from
this incident (chapter 2.4, p. 56).
 
However, there is a lack of sufficient data security measures not only in
public area. Also in the development of health apps that
Health industry in Berlin is intensively busy, data security must be the top priority
have. Such apps are used for counseling and therapeutic purposes and
require the processing of highly sensitive data. The BlnBDI has one
cloud-based providers under the magnifying glass and found that the
security measures applied did not offer an adequate level of protection. In
In its annual report, it sets out where the dangers are and what is involved in the development of such
offers must be observed (Chapter 6.1, p. 99).
 
 

 



- 4 -

In the health sector, the data protection authority was z. B. often by insecure people
Doctors who wanted to know whether they would like the copy of a
be able to invoice patient records as before. The BlnBDI had to deny this.
Within the framework of their data protection law, patients have
right to information, the right to receive a copy of their file free of charge. One
different regulation in the Civil Code has been since the introduction of the
General Data Protection Regulation no longer compatible with European law (Chapter 6.5, p.
107).
 
After it became known in 2018 that from circles of the Berlin police
threatening letters to people from the left-wing scene were written, the BlnBDI introduced a
Review of data processing in the police information system POLIKS. Included
she found serious violations of the law, which led to a formal complaint.
Among other things, personal data has not been deleted since June 2013
restricted in access. Also the necessary control procedures with which unauthorized
Access to the database should be revealed, as well as the technical settings for
Data retrievals from the system showed serious deficiencies (Chapter 3.2, p. 62).
 
The BlnBDI also had to intervene against a sports association responsible for communication
operates a website with its members. On this were in the public domain
Area the private phone numbers and e-mail addresses of athletes
published without their consent to publication. At the behest of
The supervisory authority removed the personal data from the public domain
removed from the website (chapter 3.9, p. 77).
 
A banking association was less insightful. The BlnBDI pointed out to him that in
Consultations for lending is inadmissible, according to customers
to ask their family planning, unless this is expressly stated as a voluntary statement
is marked. However, the association did not want to follow this view and passed
fails to respond accordingly to its recommendations to its member banks. banks that the
Request family planning illegally, now have to take regulatory action
calculate (chapter 10.2, p. 150).
 
In the banking sector, we were also concerned with a customer's complaint against one
bank employee who suggested that she sell her property after her husband's death
to sell a broker he knows. After the complainant no interest
had shown at the contact, the bank clerk had tips to the broker friend
on the property that is expected to be sold, so that they can identify the widow
and could contact (chapter 10.4, p. 153).
 
Video technology is still an area of work that is constantly evolving
and biometrics. In the second phase of the pilot project on video surveillance at the train station
Südkreuz, Deutsche Bahn tested so-called "intelligent" video systems from various providers.
The annual report explains what will be tested in this phase of the project, how the
Measures are to be evaluated in terms of data protection law and which criteria are to be used when answering the question
whether live operation is permissible (Chapter 11.1, p. 155).
 
The supervisory authority was also repeatedly asked questions about biometric building
access controls. A large publishing house has been testing such a system since August
2019. However, regular operation is particularly problematic because participation in
the control system may only be made voluntarily (Chapter 11.2, p. 157).

 



- 5 -

 
A large number of complaints related to the area of telemedia. A complainant
contacted the BlnBDI, for example, after receiving an email from an online
platform operator, although he was not a user of this platform. How himself
turns out, he previously had a multi-step registration process on this platform
canceled prematurely and decided not to continue using the offer. the platform
The operator had nevertheless saved and processed the data that had already been entered.
That was not allowed (chapter 9.10, p. 144).
 
It turned out to be extremely problematic when dealing with visitor data
the city portal Berlin.de. On the web portal, which is in public-private partnership between
operated by the State of Berlin and a private provider, intensive tracking was carried out
by third parties. The extensive examination is ongoing. The state of affairs is presented in the annual report
shown (Chapter 13.8, p. 190).
 
Also the complex test procedures against offices of the state administration, political parties
and companies because of the operation of so-called Facebook fan pages
authority continues. These procedures were initiated after the European
Court of Justice ruled in 2018 that operators of such
Fanpages for the data processing that takes place together with Facebook
are responsible. In the annual report, the problem, the current developments
as well as the status of the proceedings explained in detail (chapter 13.6, p. 185).
 
The first in Germany after the General Data Protection Regulation attracted a great deal of attention
imposed a fine in the millions on Deutsche Wohnen SE. In the annual report
set out which data protection violations were punished and how
supervisory authority has assessed the amount of the fine (Chapter 9.1, p. 126 and Chapter
12.3, p. 164). In addition to this and other fine proceedings that have already become known
the BlnBDI also imposed on the online bank N26 and Delivery Hero Germany GmbH
a fine of 6,000 euros against the national association of the NPD. This one already had
in February 2018, i.e. before the GDPR came into effect, in an illegal manner on a website
the names, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of employees in refugee
institutions (Chapter 12.4, p. 165).
 
Since the end of 2016, the Berlin data protection officer has been developing offers with which
Elementary school children are made aware of the protection of their data in the digitized world.
The redesigned and expanded media education offer www.data-kids.de
was not only nominated for the German children's software award TOMMI in 2019,
but also in several project hours carried out at schools by children and
Teaching staff accepted with enthusiasm (Chapter 5.6, p. 97).
 
After the states of Bremen, Hamburg and Rhineland-Palatinate now also Thuringia
has a transparency law, there are also first steps towards one in Berlin
modern freedom of information law. In addition to a broad alliance
civil society organisations, which brought about the transparency Berlin referendum
called, brought the FDP parliamentary group in the Berlin House of Representatives
relevant draft law. The BlnBDI welcomes these initiatives and will
actively support corresponding legislative projects (Chapter 17.3, p. 217).
 

 

