annual report
 

the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of Information as of December 31, 2019

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has
House of Representatives and the Senate an annual report on the results of their activities
activity (§§ 12 Berlin Data Protection Act, 18 Para. 3 Berlin Information
Freedom of Action Act). This report closes on March 28, 2019
Annual Report 2018 submitted and covers the period between 1 January
and December 31, 2019 onwards.

The annual report is also available on our website, see: https://
www.datenschutz-berlin.de

imprint

Publisher: Berlin Commissioner for

Privacy and Freedom of Information
 
 
Friedrichstr. 219, 10969 Berlin
Telephone: (0 30) + 138 89-0
Fax: (0 30) 2 15 50 50
Email: mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
Internet: https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/

 
 
 

april agency GbR

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Layout:

 

LayoutManufaktur.com

ARNOLD group

Sentence:

Print:

 

 

This publication is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License and may citing
of the author, changes made and the license are freely reproduced,
be changed and disseminated. Commercial use requires prior permission
Approval by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Information Release
Ness. The full license text can be found at https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/legalcode.de.

contents

List of abbreviations 9

 

Foreword 13

1 focus areas
 

1.1 status essential – messenger services in companies and

 

public institutions 17
1.2 Artificial Intelligence 24
1.3 Address rental for advertising 31
1.4 Fine concept 35
1.5 The cooperation of the data protection supervisory authorities of the EU

 
 
 
 

 

 

picks up speed! – The Service Center for European Affairs 40

 

 

2 Digital administration and justice
 

2.1 Berlin administration on course for success? 47
2.2 Digital key board required for authorities 50
2.3 Data protection-compliant use of Windows 10 54
2.4 Malware infestation at the Court of Appeal 56
2.5 Cooperation with official data protection officers
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Courts and public prosecutors 59

 

 
3

Home and Sports
3.1 Threatening letters to the left scene with data from police databases 61
3.2 Control of the police information system POLIKS 62
3.3 Delay in responding to requests for information from the police 65
3.4 Fine procedure: File number visible in address field 66
3.5 Data processing in the population register: mistaken identity
 

 
 
 
 
 

  

 

 

lungs & more 68

 

 

3.6 Blocking information in the population register due to a change in the

 

 

First name or gender 71
3.7 Police confidentiality agreement for MPs 73
3.8 Consent to “mini championships” in table tennis 75
3.9 Publication of contact details on a sports portal 77

                       

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

3

contents

 
4 Transport and Tourism

4.1 Jelbi” – the BVG 79 mobility app
4.2 A complete database? – The free student ticket

 
 

 

 

 

the BVG 81
4.3 Why bicycles create motion profiles 83
4.4 Inspection accompanied by spam 85

 
 

 

 

5 Youth and education including media literacy
 

  

5.1 Film and photo recordings of children - uncertainty through

 

 

the General Data Protection Regulation 88
5.2 Who is allowed to see what in the youth welfare office? 90
5.3 On the use of Office 365 in schools 92
5.4 The School Data Ordinance – A new major construction site on the

 
                                                         

 
 
 

Path to digitization 93

 

 

5.5 Research with the files of the youth welfare offices - possibilities

 

 

 

and borders 95
5.6 Data protection and media literacy 97

                                                                                                 
                                                         

 

6 health and care
 

6.1 Health apps with insufficient protection 99
6.2 Open patient files in the hospital 102
6.3 Termination with multiple unknowns? 103
6.4 Resolution of an old dispute? Quality assurance at the checkout

 
 
 
 

 

 

medical association Berlin 105

 

6.5 Nothing going on without moss? – The right to the medical record

 

 

in copy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .107

 

6.6 Informed consent for research projects -

 

No discontinued model! 108

 

 

7
 

integration, social affairs and work
7.1 Complaints office for refugees – without data protection? 112
7.2 Census of homeless people in Berlin – “Night of the

 
 

 
 

 

 

Solidarity” 114
7.3 New ID - Old photo 116
7.4 Do health insurance cards belong in the social security office file? 117

 
 

  

 

4

contents

 
8 Employee data protection

8.1 Scope of requests for information from employees 119
8.2 Deletion of data after termination of employment

 
 

 

 

ratio 120
8.3 Deletion of applicant data for judicial office 121
8.4 Internal WhatsApp group 123
8.5 Notes on the procedures of the operational integration
   

 
 
 

 

management 124

9 economy
 

9.1 The perpetual tenant file 126
9.2 Please smile! – Access to coworking spaces only after

 
 

 

Photographs 128

 

9.3 Debt collection companies: no confusion of persons
  

 

excluded 130
9.4 "Pot Secret" makes everything public 132
9.5 Hello Prohibition of Coupling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .135
9.6 Customer data for asset deals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .136
9.7 Businesses: Processing Data Subject Requests

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

to ensure! 139
9.8 Internet imprint: No use of data for advertising purposes! 140
9.9 Tax Advisory Activity in Payroll Accounting - None
 

 
 

Order processing! 142

9.10 Storage of customer data in the event of termination of a

 

Registration process 144
 
9.11 Rules of conduct according to Art. 40 GDPR - A development report 145

 

 

 

 

 

10 finances

 

10.1 Savings Banks’ declaration of consent 148
10.2 Mortgage credit only with information about family planning? 150
 
10.3 How many identity cards does an association need for an account

 
 
 

 

 

opening? 152
10.4 A chatty bank employee 153
10.5 Evidence of Betreuer status to a bank 154

 
 

 

 

5

contents

11 video surveillance

 

11.1 Südkreuz remains a test laboratory for "intelligent" video
 

 

 

  

surveillance 155
11.2 Biometric access control at a large publishing house 157
11.3 Permissibility of dash cams 159

 
 

 

 

12 sanctions

 

 

12.1 N26 Bank GmbH 161
12.2 Delivery Hero Germany GmbH 162
12.3 Deutsche Wohnen SE 164
12.4 NPD State Association Berlin 165

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

13 Telecommunications and Media

 

13.1 From one-off data transmission to regular data

 

 

 

comparison - 23. Broadcasting Amendment State Treaty 167
13.2 Decision of the European Court of Justice on "Planet 49" 173
13.3 Guidance from the supervisory authorities for telemedia
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Offers 176
13.4 Use of Google Analytics & Co. to measure reach 180
 
13.5 Facebook Custom Audience List Procedure - No Deployment
  

 
 

 

 

 

without consent! 182
13.6 Facebook fan pages: tests and developments 185
13.7 Social plug-ins and joint responsibility 188
13.8 Berlin.de - Service portal with problems 190
13.9 Deletion routine for customer accounts 192

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

14 Europe

 

14.1 Adaptation of the Berlin state law to the data protection
 

 

 

Basic Regulation 194

  

14.2 How does a guideline of the European Data Protection Act come about?

 

committee? 196

  

14.3 News from Europe - Overview of the work of the European

 

 

Data Protection Committee 199
14.4 General Data Protection Regulation vs. Berlin Constitution 202

  

 

 

 

6

contents

15 Obligation to inform in the event of data breaches

 

15.1 General developments 206
15.2 Individual cases 207

 
 

 

 

16 International developments in data protection

 

 
 

16.1 Brexit – consequences of a (no) deal 209
16.2 Report from the Berlin Group 210
16.2.1 Spring Conference 210
16.2.2 Autumn Conference 213

 
 

 

 

 

17 Freedom of Information

 

 

International developments 214
17.1
 
17.2 Developments in Germany 215
 
17.2.1 Cooperation of Freedom of Information Officers 215
17.2.2 New Federal Law 215
17.2.3 New state laws 217
17.3 Developments in Berlin 217

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18 From the office
 

18.1 Developments 219
18.2 From the Citizens’ Submissions service point 222

 
 

 

18.2.1 Submission development, statistics, content trends,
 

 

conceptual approaches 222
 

 

18.2.2 My Perfect Complaint - Notes on

 

Complaint Procedure 223
 
18.3 Cooperation with the Berlin House of Representatives 225
18.4 Cooperation with other bodies 226
18.5 Press work 227
18.6 Public Relations 229

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Glossary 233

 

Index 245

 

7

contents

a notice
 
The glossary (at the end of the brochure) provides a list of explanations of
different technical terms.

 

8th

List of abbreviations

 

 

Working group of German market and opinion research institutes
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union
general equality law
Law Implementing the Judiciary Law
tax code
General safety and order law
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority
Federal Data Protection Act
Operational integration management
Civil Code
Federal Law Gazette
Federal Court of Justice
Federal Cartel Office

Abghs.-Drs. House of Representatives printed matter
ADM
 
TFEU
 
AGG
 
AGGVG
 
oh
 
ASOG
 
BaFin
 
BDSG
 
BEM
 
Civil Code
 
Federal Law Gazette
 
BGH
 
BKartA
 
BlnAGBMG Berlin Implementation Act for the Federal Registration Act
BlnDSG
 
BMI
 
BMG
 
BMGVwV
 

Berlin Data Protection Act
Federal Ministry of the Interior, Building and Community
Federal Registration Act
General administrative regulation for the implementation of the federal
 
registration law
Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy
Federal Office for Security in Information Technology
Bundestag printed matter
Federal Constitutional Court
Federal Administrative Court
Berlin transport company
Federal Association of German Volksbanken and Raiffeisenbanken
curriculum vitae
German Savings Banks and Giro Association
General Data Protection Regulation
Conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities
 
Federal and the states

BMWi
 
BSI
 
BT-Drs.
 
BVerfG
 
BVerwG
 
BVG
 
BVR
 
CV
 
GDPR
 
GDPR
 
DSK
 

9



Digital Supply Act
European Data Protection Board
recital
E-government law Berlin
European Union
European Court of Justice
Federal IT cooperation
Joint Federal Committee

DVG
 
EDSA
 
ground floor
 
EGovG Bln
 
EU
 
ECJ
 
FITKO
 
GBA
 
GeschGehG Law for the protection of business secrets
GG
 
GRCh
 
AMLA
 
HTW
 
ICIC
 
IFG
 
IFK
 
IMI
 
ISBJ
 
IT
 
ITDZ
 
IWGDPT
 

constitution
Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union
Money Laundering Act
University of Technology and Economics
International Conference of Freedom of Information Commissioners
Freedom of Information Act
Conference of Freedom of Information Officers in Germany
Internal Market Information System
Integrated software Berlin youth welfare
information technology
IT service center
International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecom
 
nication (so-called Berlin Group)
annual report
Commission to determine the financial needs of broadcasting
 
shape
Artificial intelligence
small and medium-sized companies
Communications Technology and Privacy Committee
Children's University Lichtenberg
Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians
State Agency for Civil and Regulatory Affairs
State Office for Refugee Affairs
State Office for Health and Social Affairs
Online Access Act
Public Key Infrastructure

JB
 
KEF
 

AI
 
SMEs
 
KTDat
 
CUL
 
KV
 
LABO
 
LAF
 
LOCATIONSo
 
OZG
 
PKI
 

10


POLICIES

 
PStG
RBStV
 
RL
 
RSD
 
SenIAS
 
SGB
 
StbergG
 
StGB
 
StPO
 
TMG
 
TSG
 
do
 
UWG
 
VBB
 
VG
 
vig
 
VK
 
VvB
 
WJH

 

 
State police system for information, communication and
processing
Personal Status Act
State Broadcasting Agreement
policy
Regional Social Pedagogical Service
Senate Department for Integration, Labor and Social Affairs
social code
Tax Advisory Act
criminal code
Code of Criminal Procedure
Telemedia Act
transgender law
Technical University
Unfair Competition Law
Transport association Berlin-Brandenburg
administrative court
Consumer Information Act
United Kingdom
Berlin constitution
Economic youth welfare

11

12

Foreword Foreword

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is effective. The groundbreaking character
of this European law for data protection in Europe and also above
is becoming more and more noticeable.

So we in Berlin can look forward to an exciting and successful year
of the GDPR. It was the first full year with the new law
situation and we could observe in our work that the data protection
che sensitivity has increased significantly in almost all areas. responsible
People turn to us much more frequently with questions and problems and
gen increases the importance of good data protection management.

Above all, among the citizens, there is a strong and unflagging
of the interest in the protection of their personal data. This
Interest was with the introduction of the GDPR and in this context
intensive public discussions on the subject have increased significantly
and has since settled at a very high level. My authority has
several thousand complaints from citizens last year
processed, viewed and evaluated over a thousand reported data breaches,
intensively with other experts at national and European level
work and, last but not least, a wide range of consultations and audits by companies
companies and authorities as well as a considerable number of sanction procedures
carried out.

Increasingly, there are also large fine proceedings against supranationals
active companies in focus. Naturally, for checks in
these areas in view of the complex data processing to be found there
maintenance systems regularly require a great deal of work and time, be-

13

before results can be achieved. But more than a year after
With regard to the DS-GVO, we are ready to take measures for the first major cases
Securing data protection to take us while doing the new skills
to use, which the DS-GVO makes available to us. result of this development
Among other things, this was the first fine in Germany in the double-digit million
lion height.

Measures are always taken against the background of the basic idea of the DS
GMOs enact that in an increasingly digitized society dem
Data protection can only be helped to a breakthrough if violations
whose principles are punished in a perceptible way. This happens
always according to the principle of proportionality and before
due to the economic performance of the respective company or
the respective organization. Beyond the individual procedures, there must ultimately be a goal
be subject to data protection sanctions, bodies that personal
process data, to show that on the one hand it is worthwhile to actively protect data protection
operate, and that on the other hand it can hurt badly if you
does not comply with legal requirements.

The judgment of the European Court of Justice last year was also significant
to the Facebook Like button. The court found that not only Facebook,
but also website operators who use the Facebook Like button or others
Use social plugins for related data processing
jointly responsible. Already in 2018, the European Court of Justice
for Facebook fan pages the joint responsibility of Facebook and the
determined by the operators of the fan pages. We then had
Trials initiated against Berlin fan page operators, which are still ongoing.
Those responsible must make it clear that the obligations associated with such
entailed joint responsibility, cannot be fulfilled without further ado
are. The same applies to the data protection obligations,
which can be obtained through the integration of Google Analytics and similar third-party services
ten into its own website. Website operators should therefore be careful
consider whether they want to use such offers at all.

In the digital area, data protection-compliant design and use is also important
of mobile apps is an increasingly important topic. In addition to the

14

Foreword Use of messenger services such as WhatsApp by public authorities
increasing spread of health apps, which often contain very sensitive data
process users. In both cases, the implementation of suitable technical
shear and organizational measures as well as a transparent information
policy regarding the purpose and scope of data processing for a
legally compliant use is essential. There is still a lot of catching up to do here
with those responsible.

The more our life is shaped by digital applications, the more important it is
is the early education of people from childhood on about risks and
Rights related to the processing of your data. Only who
drive and knows one's own options for action, can protect one's
Take data into your own hands. At the same time, one can even use the sensitization
don't start early enough. For this reason, we have
work in the field of media education has been intensified in order to
to make children aware that when using digital
Media varied information is collected in the background about them and
can be misused in a variety of ways. For this we have, among other things, further on
our children's website and were delighted to learn that they
was nominated for the German children's software award TOMMI.

 

Even if the focus of our activities in the past year was inevitable
the implementation of the GDPR was, but things are also happening in the area of information
some freedom: In Berlin there are first signs of the creation of a transparency
visible after some federal states have already passed such laws
, which oblige government agencies, to the public on their own initiative
provide information about their work. We welcome this path
expressly and will parliament and government implement such a
according to the law in Berlin with words and deeds.

About one and a half years have passed since the introduction of the GDPR; they were on-
rigorous, but very instructive and overall very successful. Everyone with
Data processing and data protection are concerned, had to deal with the
learn new rules. However, our experience shows that not only
Citizens whose rights are sustainably expanded by the GDPR
were, have won. Companies can also benefit from the new regulations

15

benefit if they take data protection seriously. In a globalized and
digitized world, the GDPR has the potential to protect the fundamental right to information
to make self-determination viable for the future. It remains exciting!

Berlin, April 3, 2020

Maja Smoltczyk
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

16

Foreword 1.1. Messenger services in companies and public institutions

1 focus areas
 
 
1.1

 
Status essential – messenger services
in companies and public
facilities

 

Messenger services on private smartphones are often also used for business
material or business purposes. Especially in sensitive areas
e.g. the health and school systems – this entails high risks
Consequence. We have worked on the development of a handout for the conference of the
independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK)
involved in the subject, a hospital chain to advise and pointers
given to the Berlin school administration.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The thrill of quick news
What to do when the competent medical colleague is on standby, but far
from the bedside and to make a decision as soon as possible
fen is? One, two snapshots of the relevant diagnostic results and
a request is sent via WhatsApp to the colleague who is already calling on the way
technically can give first indications for further treatment. This is a scenario
rio, which is hardly talked about and yet it is something like that now
quite common in many hospitals. The advantages for the treatment
ment (faster response times) and for the hospital (simplification of the
on-call duty and less strain on employees) are obvious
lich. An additional attraction: At first glance, there are no costs.

Ambulatory nurses travel a lot. Also for them are messenger services
an inexpensive and versatile tool. You will receive changes to the
sentence planning, can ask questions to the colleague who was at the the day before
same patient. The news is timely. Unlike
a telephone call, the current activity does not have to be interrupted in order to
to accept. Even later you can read what you can do with oral
much more likely to forget communication.

17

At school, too, both the pupils and
Pupils as well as the parents themselves about short-term changes in the school process
quickly informed. It represents a time-saving alternative to informing the
affected and all participants have the same
information. Those who do not want to use messenger services-
ten, but are initially excluded from this.

The hidden risks
The use of messenger services in cases such as those described above
brings with it a number of privacy issues. is reinforced
this if the communication takes place with the private devices of the employees and
the sent data is therefore subject to the direct control of the respective institution
are withdrawn.

Many of the well-known, publicly accessible messenger services are problematic
table because the service providers, above all WhatsApp, which belongs to Facebook
Ireland Ltd. with their free WhatsApp offering, not just the messages
transmit, but at the same time pursue their own monetary goals. For her it is
beneficial to know the communication patterns of the people who use their
Use services in order to be able to send you advertising messages.

In this context, the use of measuring
ger services in the professional environment.
s: When companies and authorities send their employees or communication
ask partners to use a messenger service,
in which an inadmissible use of data for the business of the messenger service
heard, then they bear part of the responsibility for this infringement.

It starts with the fact that most service providers open the address book without being asked
data from the smartphones. Also some non-commercial offers like Si-
go ahead like this.

But companies or public bodies need a legal basis
when they ask their employees to use a messenger service
and thereby cause data of private third parties in the address books
of the smartphones of the employees are included at the respective service

18

Chapter 1 Focus 1 1 Messenger services in companies and public institutions

 

be passed on to bidders. Since there is no legal permission for this,
all private communications contained in the respective address book
cation partners for consent to this transmission
become. However, this would hardly be practicable. Therefore one should
Messenger app used in the professional environment only those data to service
te providers who need them to send the respective messages to the
to be sent to the correct recipients. In practice will
only the unique identifiers of sending and receiving
persons (often their phone numbers).

The mass of critical data from the use of messenger services falls
when exchanging messages among the participants. Even if the
Because the messages are encrypted, the providers find out who is with whom
communicates. This information is what is known as traffic data.
Even if these are sometimes banal, you can use many of these traffic data
extract quite relevant information that is by no means banal. At-
for example, it represents information worthy of protection as to who is with which doctor
or which doctor is communicated, since relevant conclusions can be drawn from
current state of health can be drawn.

In addition, several factors may increase the risk that the providers
ter of the messenger services unlawfully collect the traffic data themselves
use or disclose to third parties. First, messenger services are currently subject
not (yet) the telecommunications law and thus the obligation to
special protection of traffic data. Second, some of the largest service
te providers or the groups controlling them are located in third countries,
whose legal systems allow access to the traffic data by state authorities
authorities also allow under conditions that are not permitted by European law
are covered. The latter circumstances can also change in the short term due to the
Relocation of company headquarters or change of shareholders or
dominant companies. In 2019, for example, this happened at the
Wire Swiss GmbH, the provider of the messenger service Wire. And third-
The place of data processing can also change to a legally less secure place
Relocate the environment because the service provider consciously decides to do so or
allow a cloud service provider working for it to do so.

 

19

All these circumstances also have an impact on the protection of confidentiality
quality of the transmitted data. Admittedly, encrypted
procedure for the application, which, if carried out correctly, the transmitted
Protect data also against the service provider. In some cases
these processes even have extremely high requirements. But is it
It is up to the service provider to control whether, how and with which ones
keys the data is backed up. Institutions that hold a public fair
senger service must therefore carefully check the reliability of the
respective service providers as well as the legal and technical design of the
weigh the products offered against the consequences of any disclosure
of the transferred data for the data subjects.

If an institution contacts private individuals via a messenger service
det, e.g. a bank to its customers, there are additional
Confidentiality risks stem from the fact that the security features of the devices that
used by the data-receiving persons, often far behind those of official
chen devices fall behind. In doing so, it is neither permissible to
to exclude a communication channel because they do not have a suitable device or
want to use, nor these people to a form of communication
push that endangers their own data. Therefore, in any case,
be provided that access to the communications can also be made in a different way
than is made possible via the messenger services.

In addition to guaranteeing confidentiality, each professionally
established the sending of personal data with a messenger service and
in the subsequent storage of the messages on the devices of the
communication partners also the other data protection principles
to comply with and to grant the rights of those affected. This is often forgotten: The
Institution remains responsible for data processing. Also about data that
are initially only stored on the devices of the employees involved,
it must be possible to provide information at the request of the person concerned. It must be the
There is a possibility that the data will be corrected and its processing
restricts or can be deleted. If they are no longer needed, they are
to delete them without being asked and without delay. For other purposes, the
Data will only be used if this is proportionate and with the original
common context in which the transfer took place.

20

Chapter 1 Focus 1 1 Messenger services in companies and public institutions

 

That's how it works
A legally compliant use of messenger services not only achieves
desired effect of quick and easy communication for the benefit
of the persons concerned, but also protects their rights at the same time. In addition
the app used, the transmission service and the tools used must
councils meet basic requirements. In many cases there is also an integration
of the messenger service in the other data processing of the responsible
literally necessary to comply with data protection principles and the
to guarantee the rights of data subjects and any existing documents
to fulfill documentation obligations. The latter can usually only be implemented
if the service is provided by or specifically for the company
a processor is provided.

The messenger application must first clearly show what is happening with the
transmitted data, the traffic data and, if applicable, the usage data. if
the app is used to store sensitive data, then it may only be used after
Enter a special password and, depending on the risk, a second security
security feature grant access to the stored data. storage and
The data must be transmitted in encrypted form using state-of-the-art technology.
gen. If the app is to be used for different purposes, then it should be
enable messages to be sorted according to their purpose. she needed
also at least functions for exporting the saved messages and
for their deletion.

The delivery service must keep the messages uncorrupted and end-to-end
encrypted at the end. Information about the use of the app by private
users may only with the consent of the respective users
used by the service provider and transmitted to third parties. Data
companies are only allowed to decide about the use of the app by employees
can be evaluated by contractors if this is required by e.g.
agreement or similar there is a legal basis and the employees are informed
are. The companies may then collect and store traffic data to this extent
and evaluate how this is necessary in order to transfer personal data
Data under their responsibility for legitimate purposes, including in particular the
Data protection control to be able to understand.

 

21

If sensitive data is processed, it must be ensured that only authorized persons have access to the
message exchange and enter the origin of the messages
is clearly recognizable. The messages themselves belong in a memory from which
them for further use and, if necessary, documentation by the respective body
can be removed. If there is no transfer to other systems,
These memories also serve as a database for information to data subjects who
were not involved in the communication themselves. Of course they can
Messages are not stored permanently. In many cases, the messages
ten contents are no longer required a short time after dispatch. Than are
they on the devices used and, as long as no storage obligations apply,
also to be deleted in the central memory.

The devices, mostly smartphones, used for communication
den, must offer adequate security. This starts with an up-to-date
operating system on. Known security gaps must be closed quickly
the. To ensure that malware cannot wreak havoc on the devices,
the devices also receive a secure configuration. The safe configuration
ration must depend on the risks, among other things, on the access protection of the
devices, encrypting device memory, controlling the installation of
Apps whose timely updating and protection of the interfaces
cken. A central tool is required to control the configuration
the so-called mobile device management. From the sensitivity of the messages sent
depends on how strict this configuration must be kept. Must
e.g. patient data are sent between employees in a hospital
den, then all access routes for
Malware to the devices to be closed.

 

 

Since such control of their private devices cannot be expected of employees
a company that needs fast communication
wants to benefit among its employees, in these cases smartphones or
Provide tablets for official use.

Are public messengers always taboo in schools?
If a public messenger service is subject to data protection regulations by its provider
is provided correctly (this is currently not the case for WhatsApp), this can be done for

22

Chapter 1 Focus 1 1 Messenger services in companies and public institutions

 

communication in the school sector can be used if the following additional
additional conditions are met:

• First, the offer of information about school operations via a fair
 
to make available only a voluntary offer for those affected
represent bot. It must be ensured that the information
reach students and their parents without them having to
need to use messenger service.

 
• Second, according to the Berlin School Act, approval is required
the school management and an obligation on the part of the teachers to observe
data protection regulations,1 insofar as teachers do not have official
have terminals. Only in such narrow exceptional cases would the use
the use of private smartphones, tablets or laptops is permitted by law.

 
• Thirdly, organizational requirements must ensure that on the
private end devices only data with low protection requirements are processed
the. In particular, no performance data of the students may be recorded
Student or health data exchanged via the messenger services
will.

In practice, however, this is difficult to guarantee. We have therefore
National Administration for Education, Youth and Family that we have the necessary
digkeit, for the state of Berlin to have its own messenger service in the future
to provide. This would be technically at a manageable cost
to be realized on the basis of available software, like similar projects
show in other states.

Doing nothing is not an option
The same applies to other areas in which sensitive data are processed
the. As already shown, messenger services for the
official or operational communication is used without the data
legal framework conditions are complied with. Here there is-

 
1

See Section 64, Paragraph 2 of the Berlin Education Act

23

need for action. So how can and must those responsible for the
counteract the improper use of messenger services?

A mere ban is not a sufficient option. Put the employees their
private devices, then the ban can be checked by looking at the devices
not permitted. Therefore, the respective institution must be sufficiently attractive, but
at the same time offer legally compliant alternatives. You can first
or, where acceptable under data protection law, a suitable public one
Messenger service for general organizational communication established
in which no sensitive data is processed. For the attractiveness of a
to increase such in-house messenger service and thus the use
to reach exclusively this service for official purposes, offers itself
its connection with specific internal information offers
which e.g. internal social offers or similar. may affect. The offer more appropriate
official devices and their configuration according to the security requirements
changes would be the next steps that would result in a release of the messenger service
tes also for the transmission of sensitive data within the respective work
area can culminate once secured that only adequately protected
devices can participate in the communication.

 

Messenger services offer a welcome facilitation of communication
tion in various institutions. But many common services go
accompanied by risks that are unacceptable under data protection law. In order to
avoid, the respective institutions must provide a suitable service carefully
select and check for risks or operate them yourself. doing nothing is not
option more.

1.2 Artificial Intelligence

 

Artificial intelligence (AI) is currently used as a generic term for various algorithms
algorithms based on automatic learning – mostly based on many
Examples - based. The increasing use of such algorithms is
have a significant impact on society. are particularly relevant
the impact on privacy, since "smart" algorithms already
efficiently analyze and use the mountains of data that have now accumulated. The question

24

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Chapter 1 Focus 1 2 Artificial Intelligence

 

is, for what purposes this happens, for whose benefit and whether affected persons
actually given the opportunity to object to the processing of their personal
understand and control the data collected.

A main area of application for AI algorithms is decision-making
systems, e.g. systems at banks, which decide whether and to which
conditions customers are granted loans or whether a certain
unauthorized use of a credit card could potentially be a case of fraud.

 

This can lead to wrong decisions, which those affected often only
difficult to correct. Are algorithms used here that are based on
based on tomatic learning (the technical term is deep learning), can often
even their manufacturers or programmers no longer say why and why
on the basis of which data a decision was made in the individual case.

Advocates of algorithmic decision-making systems argue that
People tend to make biased decisions. Through
Algorithm support - careful development and testing
exposed - could be achieved that less false or discriminatory
decisions would be made. So autonomous vehicles would accidents though
cannot absolutely prevent it. The hope, however, is that the algorithms
Among other things, due to their higher reaction speed, they prevent significantly more accidents
than would be possible for people in comparable situations.

 

It must be countered that such decision-making systems are by no means
way are infallible, but it is not possible for them in comparison to humans,
to respond individually to the special features of the individual case. Therefore, the
thought the use of such decision-making systems would lead to exactly the opposite result-
that are by no means more objective than human decisions.

 

That there is, for example, systematic discrimination against population groups
due to unforeseen interpretations of personal data
Algorithms can come is already known. So was at a large
Online mail-order companies use software used to select applications
switched after it turned out that based on the previous
Previous hiring practices only male people for hiring

25

chose. The reason for such wrong decisions is often
that the initial data for learning the algorithms, the so-called training
depict information, prejudice or discrimination. The lack of transparency
Algorithms then lead to preference and discrimination of people
groups cannot be viewed in the system and only when
come to light.

The lack of transparency has other implications. When people
data processing and the risks associated with it, a
decision can no longer be questioned and justified, an effective
Consent to such data processing is also hardly possible. A
essential tool by which citizens control the
processing of data concerning them is undermined.
This becomes particularly clear when apparently harmless data is
execution of an automated evaluation are transferred and
shows that the algorithm used is able to draw conclusions from this data
visibly sensitive characteristics of the respective person, e.g.
your sexual orientation or psychological personality traits.

Demands on automated decision-making systems
There will be no stopping techniques like machine learning and AI
will be used more and more in the future in the course of their further development. Then
Of course, the techniques mentioned can, in principle, have many positive
have effects such as B. higher accuracy in medical diagnostics
senior Nonetheless, there are a number of ways in which controlling intervention is required. The data-
Safety supervisory authorities have recognized this and in the spring a "task force KI"
launched to address the 97th Data Protection Conference (DSK).
Hambacher declaration to prepare the data protection requirements
to artificial intelligence systems. This Hambacher Declaration was
at the 98th DSK in November supplemented by a position paper on recommended
technical and organizational measures in the development and
drive of AI systems combined with basic recommendations for a
data protection-compliant design of such systems.

26

Chapter 1 Focus 1 2 Artificial Intelligence

 

The declaration2 formulated by the supervisory authorities is based on the
AI strategy published by the government and gives data protection law
recommendations for action. It assumes that for AI systems the basic
processing of personal data3 apply and their enforcement
accordingly also in this context through technical and organizational
toric measures must be ensured4.

 

The requirements laid down in the declaration relate to six different
different areas. In accordance with the prohibition of a purely automatic
ized decision-making5 should not be permitted by the use of AI
objects are degraded. The respective purpose for use must be specified in advance
be clearly defined and be in the constitutionally legitimate area
because. This earmarking must also not be used in connection with the for
the data sets collected for the training of the algorithms. Continue-
towards the use of AI should always be transparent, comprehensible and explainable.
be made, which is the prerequisite for non-discriminatory application
of AI systems. In particular, the careful and the respective risk of
Data processing appropriate selection of the training data is important here
tion. They must be accurate, relevant, representative and up to date. Even if at
AI systems regularly require large amounts of data in order to
To ensure appropriate training of the software is the principle of data
note minimization. This should preferably be done by
previously anonymized data is used. If this is not possible, must
the scope of the processed personal data in an appropriate
relation to the training success achieved with them. To ensure compliance
good principles and to ensure the security of the processed data,
clear responsibility when using AI systems is essential, isn't it?
lastly, so that those affected know exactly who they can contact to enforce their
rights.

 
2 https://www datenschutzkonferenz-online de/media/en/20190405_hambacher_erklae-

 
tion pdf

 
3 Art 5 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
 
4 See Art 25 GDPR
 
5 Art 22 GDPR

27

Finally, the supervisory authorities emphasize the importance of carrying out technical
shear and organizational measures to ensure data protection
compliant use of AI systems. In the absence of existing standards
this in the above DSK position paper specified. Not only is the
search for a definition of the term "KI" that is as selective as possible based on the typ-
picical life cycle of an AI system. The requirements of
Hambacher declaration will now be explained in more detail and to provide an overview
possible technical and organizational measures. The measure-
measures are based on what is to be granted from a data protection perspective.
achieved result, e.g. in the transparency of the origin of the data
or minimizing the personal reference of the training data used.

In the following, two key parameters of the use of artificial intelligence
intelligence are to be considered in particular: the question of transparency and
refrain from exclusively automated decisions.

transparency
Algorithmic decision-making systems often work in a non-transparent manner. providers
and vendors consider the internal logic as trade secrets and ask
therefore insufficient information available. This lack of transparency
is particularly unacceptable when the systems concerned are making decisions
meet that have critical or adverse effects on affected people
can use.

To balance the interests of the data subjects and the providers
and providers of the decision-making systems is therefore the disclosure of the
to demand procedures against independent control bodies. Next to
the training data itself must reveal its origin and weighting,
with which they flow into the learning process of the respective algorithm; also are
to enable practical tests of the algorithms. In addition, it must be documented
how the training data was checked, in particular for
hold systematic errors. The judgment algorithm mentioned above
of applications, for example, learned from previous human attitude
divorces.

 

28

Chapter 1 Focus 1 2 Artificial Intelligence

 

Another reason for limited transparency is the procedures used.
With a so-called neural network, the creation of a result
ses normally not readily understandable or even logical in a
justify it in a way that a human decision-maker or a human
what decision-maker could do – a “black box” is created. Before use in
critical areas, it would therefore be worth asking whether other methods would be preferable
hen whose function can be understood more easily. After all
are also used in neural networks or systems that use different techniques
combine, research methods that improve traceability.

 

One possibility is, for example, to repeat a decision-making process several times with each
because partially changed input values can be run through. In this way
one learns which input values are really relevant for a certain result
were and can disclose this information to those affected.

 

Do without fully automatic decisions
Whenever possible, fully automatic algorithms should be avoided.
to make table decisions. Art. 22 Para. 1 General Data Protection Regulation
ordinance (DS-GVO) says: "The data subject has the right, not one
exclusively on automated processing - including profiling -
based decision to be subjected to the legal
effect or significantly impair it in a similar way.” Rather
should algorithms support employees when making decisions
support based recommendations so that clerks can understand
can make hard decisions.

 

If the algorithm used is not able to provide a reason, it may
also not make a recommendation, but at most a pre-selection after
meet data to be checked.

An example from our test practice: A test is carried out in the state administration office in Berlin
AI-assisted examination of subsidy invoices to detect possible fraud
to identify cases. For this purpose, a service provider examines pseudonymised
courses. The AI only marks billing processes that have changed significantly
differ from the norm. This does not constitute any suspicion or even a prior
division. In any case, an internal manual check of the data takes place,

29

which either shows that the deviations can be explained or
suspicion is justified and must be investigated.

 

In time-critical areas, such as controlling autonomous vehicles,
it is hardly possible to involve a person in the decision-making process.
Instead, more emphasis must be placed on the detailed preliminary check of the algorithm
rithms and a clear allocation of responsibility for possible errors
will.

 

There are areas, such as the military, that are particularly reliant on the restriction
of fully automatic decisions must be passed: an al-
algorithm to decide whether people die by triggering a weapon
ben. However, not only ethical aspects speak against the use of autonomous weapons.
pects. Such a development would also lead to a new arms race
and ultimately lead to the uncontrollability of future military conflicts,
when different sides use autonomous systems and human
mando chains are far too slow to prevent or
limits.

However, a decision-making system that is fully automated in the first step can
be accepted if the impact on those affected is minimal
and the decisions made can be revised. In this case
it would only be necessary to provide opportunities for objection.

The use of AI algorithms to process personal data
Data needs a design that respects privacy and ethical issues
included in advance. Transparency must be established, the effects
for individuals and society must be considered, discrimination
avoided and humans in their control over the algorithms and their
turn to be strengthened. Developers and users have a duty to
benefits that can be achieved with AI in a fair manner and the rights of the persons concerned
to realize a respectful way.

30

Chapter 1 Focus 1 3 Address rental for advertising

 

1.3 Address Rental for Advertising

 

 

A large number of the complaints we receive relate to processing
of contact data by organizations6 for advertising purposes. Contact while doing so
Companies and organizations not only people who give them their contact
provided the data themselves. They often “rent” datasets from
other companies, which they then use for their advertising. At this
Address rental does not transfer the records to the advertising organization
passed on: The advertising organization provides a sample sales letter
the rental company. This (or a service company)
then inserts the leased addresses into the letter and sends them. the
In this case, the renting organization does not know to which persons
the advertising was sent in detail, as long as it was not sent via Post-Return
runners or contacts of the recipients their data
Experienced.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Is this allowed?
The question of the extent to which this practice is permissible has been the subject of several
difficulties that we had to decide. Specifically, we lay, for example
Complaints against a mail order company. The enterprise
had the addresses of his customers to process the orders
queried and saved. The company then sent these addresses
rented to organizations without the consent of the customer,
who wanted to advertise themselves. The complainants
then received advertising letters from one, especially in the run-up to Christmas
number of organizations with which they otherwise had nothing to do.

The use of postal addresses for advertising purposes is not legal (anymore)
expressly regulated. The legal situation changed with the introduction of the GDPR
changed. Until May 25, 2018, the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG)
It is true that companies are required to use lists of addresses that they have collected themselves.
agreed purposes (so-called list privilege). Profession-

 
6 In the following, this term refers to both companies and

 
beneficial organizations

31

Any addresses could then be rented out for advertising in a professional context
otherwise addresses for advertising of non-profit organizations
tion.7 This provision has been removed with the introduction of the GDPR
favor. The rental of (customer) addresses for advertising letters is subject (only
nor) the general provisions of the GDPR.

After that, addresses can only be used for advertising purposes without consent
if there is a legitimate interest and insofar as protection-worthy
interests of those affected do not stand in the way.8 In the assessment, the
reasonable expectations of the person concerned based on their relationship
the person responsible are taken into account. The decisive factor is whether the
Sending advertising letters in the respective social sphere typically
is accepted or rejected.9

In one specific case, the company had argued that it was in its own hands
legitimate interest in renting out his customer data for advertising purposes. It
has indicated that this is also the case in its general privacy policy
stated.

However, when we weighed up the interests, we came to the conclusion that the
Rental of customer addresses for advertising purposes usually the protected
contrary to the interests of the customers. Because it corresponds
not the general expectations of a person who mail order something
ordered that they subsequently receive commercials from various organizations
holds.

Customers in the mail order business typically provide their address data
wise for the purpose of contract processing, in particular for sending the
ordered goods, available. They regularly do not expect their
Address also an unknown number of third party organizations for
is made available for promotional purposes. Because stand by these organizations

 
7 § 28 Para. 3 No. 2 and 3 BDSG old version
 
8 Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR
 
9 EC 47 GDPR

32

Chapter 1 Focus 1 3 Address rental for advertising

 

her in no way. That this is the case is particularly evident from the
frequent complaints against these address trading practices.

 

The mere fact that a company rents out its customers
addresses in the privacy policy does not mean that the
Customers must reckon with the conclusion of the contract that
receive limited promotional mail. The data protection declaration is not intended to
create justification for data processing. those responsible must
first check whether intended data processing is permitted. Only if they
determine the admissibility of the processing and then want to carry it out,
they must inform the data subject.10 On the other hand, data processing
processing for which there is no legal basis is not permitted because the
processing is informed.

As a result, renting customer addresses for advertising purposes without
consent is generally inadmissible. Companies that store the addresses of their customers
Customers and customers who want to rent them out for advertising purposes must sign up for this
regularly obtain separate consent from them.

Who is responsible?
Another question that we have examined in this context is whether
who is responsible for this form of data processing, i.e. against whom we
may need to take regulatory action.

 

We received several complaints about unsolicited advertising from organizations
nizations that rent addresses for their advertising from other companies
had. The promotional letters were sent on behalf of these organizations
and looked like they came straight from there. Based on our request
these organizations often insist that they are not responsible for data processing
be responsible. After all, they would never have owned the data themselves, would they?
processed. While this may be the case, it absolves the organizations concerned
not in any case from their responsibility. According to Art. 4 No. 7 DS-GVO is for
a specific data processing responsible, who alone or jointly with
others about the purposes and means of data processing. About the

10 Art 13 GDPR

 

33

However, the purposes and means of data processing can also decide who
does not process data itself, i.e. has no access to it.11

In the case of address rental for advertising purposes, the advertising (rental
tende) Organization significantly involved in the purpose of using the addresses:
It is she who is responsible for the data processing associated with the rental of the address.
only initiates and makes possible. She is therefore also in common with the
renting company responsible for data protection for the processing
processing. Accordingly, it is also our responsibility to supervisory procedures
rer authority against organizations come the addresses for advertising purposes
had rented.

What information must the advertising company provide?
Recipients of advertising mail often turn to
the advertising organization and ask them what data they have stored
chert and where they come from. You have a right to this information.12
 
They then regularly receive the simple answer that there is no data from
saved. This is also true in principle (see above).

However, this information is not sufficient. Because as together for the
those responsible for processing13 must also ensure that the advertising organization
that those affected receive all the information to which they are entitled. This applies
even if they do not have this information themselves. The advertising organization
tion must then at least identify from whom they received the relevant data
has rented, and ensure that the rights of those affected by the rented
tending organization are met.14

Companies usually need the consent of the data subjects
obtain their addresses for advertising purposes to other companies
or organizations want to rent. If addresses for advertising purposes
are rented, for this data processing are both the renting

11 ECJ, judgment of June 5, 2018 – C210/16 – Wirtschaftsakademie Schleswig-Holstein,

 

EU:C:2018:388, paragraph 38
12 Art 15 Para. 1 GDPR
13 See Art 26 GDPR
14 Article 26 (3) GDPR

 
 
 

34

Chapter 1 Main points 1 4 Fine concept

 

and the advertising organization jointly responsible according to Art. 26
GDPR. This means, among other things, that the advertising organization is jointly responsible for
literal is that data subjects receive all information upon request,
to which you are entitled under Art. 15 GDPR.

 

1.4 fine concept

 

The DSK has a concept for assessing fines for violations of the
GDPR passed by companies. The aim of the concept is a uniform
Correct, transparent and comprehensible application of the legal requirements
of the GDPR for the assessment of fines15 by the German supervisory authorities.
The publication of the concept took place after the first negotiations
European level for the concrete assessment of fines had taken place, in
to whom the draft version of the concept was submitted by the German representative
had been brought.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The declared aim of the GDPR is to standardize the practice of fines.16 There are
an express regulation, according to which a harmonization of the determination of
Fines should be promoted through guidelines.17 Therefore, on May 25, 2018, the
European Data Protection Board (EDPB) in its first plenary session
guidelines for the application and determination of fines.18 These
Guidelines outline a unified approach to the principles of
setting of fines, but do not yet contain any specifics on the setting
method. It is reserved for later EDPB guidelines, the content of which
currently being discussed at European level.

 

Until the EDPB has drawn up final guidelines, the fine concept of the German
technical supervisory authorities should be the basis for sanctions practice in Germany,
to ensure the application of uniform standards when assessing fines
create. Due to the lack of practical experience,

15 Art 83 GDPR
16 EC 150 GDPR
17 Art 70 para 1 lit k GDPR
18 Article 29 Working Party WP 253 endorsement of 3 October 2017

 
 
 
 

35

changes and additions to both the concept and the practice of
supervisory authorities through new findings from the Europe-wide votes in
possible in the future.

The fine concept was chaired by the Sanctions working group of the DSK
developed by our supervisory authority. It takes place in the assessment of fines in
drive against companies within the scope of the GDPR, but not with
Fines against associations or natural persons outside their economic
chen activity application. The concept also develops no binding with regard to
the setting of fines by courts.

In the development of the fine concept, the parties involved initially contacted each other
the procedures for setting fines by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority
performance supervision and oriented by the Federal Cartel Office. Both institutions
calculate the specific fine based on the size of the
ning body, which uses its annual turnover of a certain size
group and the severity of the individual case.

With a view to determining a basic amount, the basis for the calculation
of the specific amount of the fine, the parties involved also have to contact each other
those on which the calculation of fines is based in German criminal law
so-called daily rates. Daily rates are a unit of calculation for monetary
penalties, which are based on the average daily income of the accused
is formed.

According to the fine concept, the concrete fine is calculated in five steps:
First, the affected company is assigned to a size class (1.),
then the average annual turnover of the respective sub-group of size
class determines (2.), then determines a basic economic value (3.), this
Basic value by means of a factor dependent on the seriousness of the circumstances of the crime
multiplied (4.) and finally the value determined under 4.
general and other circumstances that have not yet been taken into account (5.).

36

Chapter 1 Main points 1 4 Fine concept

 

1. Categorization of companies according to size classes
Based on its size, the affected company is assigned one of four
assigned to classes (A to D) (Table 1).

The size classes are based on the total global
total turnover of companies19 and are subdivided into micro-enterprises, small
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as well as large companies. It applies according to EC 150
DS-GVO the term "company" within the meaning of Articles 101 and 102 TFEU20 (so-called functional
onal company concept).

 

 

The size classification of the SMEs is based on the previous year's
zes in principle to the recommendation of the Commission of May 6, 2003 (2003/361/
EC).

The size classes are used for a more concrete classification of the companies.
divided into subgroups (A.I to A.III, B.I to B.III, C.I to C.VII, D.I to D.VII).

Table 1

micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
 
Enterprises (SMEs)

large companies

Distinction according to annual sales in millions of euros

A

B

C

D

micro
take: ≤2
≤0.7
A I
AII
≥0.7-1.4
AIII ≥1.4-2

small sub
take: ≥2-10
B I
BII ≥5-7.5
BIII ≥7.5-10

≥2-5

medium
take: ≥10-50
≥10-12.5
C I
C II
≥12.5-15
CIII ≥15-20
CIV ≥20-25
C V
≥25-30
CVI ≥30-40
CVII ≥40-50

Large companies:
≥50
D I
≥50-75
DII ≥75-100
DIII ≥100-200
DIV ≥200-300
DV ≥300-400
DVI ≥400-500
DVII ≥500

19 See Art 83 Para 4 to 6 GDPR
20 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union

 
 

37

2. Determination of the average annual turnover of the respective sub-group

 
size class

Then the mean annual turnover of the subgroup in which the company is included
was classified (Table 2). This step is used to illustrate
ment of the determination of the basic economic value based on this (3.).

Table 2

micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
Enterprises (SMEs)
 

large companies

Distinction according to annual sales in millions of euros

A

A I
AII
A III

0.35
1.05
1.70

B I
BII
B III

B

3.50
6.25
8.75

C

D

C I
C II
CIII
C IV
C V
C VI
C VII

11:25
13.75
17.50
22.50
27.50
35.00
45.00

D I
DII
DIII
D IV
D V
D VI
 
D VII more concrete

62.50
87.50
150.00
250.00
350.00
450.00

Annual sales*

* From an annual turnover of more than 500 million euros, the percentage fine limit of 2%
 
or 4% of the annual turnover as a maximum limit, so that the respective
companies, a calculation is made based on the actual turnover.

3. Determination of the basic economic value
The mean annual
resales of the sub-group in which the company is classified
divided by 360 (days) and thus an average
calculated daily rate (Table 3).

38

Chapter 1 Main points 1 4 Fine concept

 

Table 3

micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
Enterprises (SMEs)
 

large companies

Distinction according to annual sales in €

A

972
2 917
4 722

B
9 722
17 361
24 306

B I
BII
B III

A I
AII
A III

C I
C II
CIII
C IV
C V
C VI
C VII

C

31 250
38 194
48 611
62 500
76 389
97 222
125 000

D
173 611
243 056
416 667
694 444
972 222
1 250 000

D I
DII
DIII
D IV
D V
D VI
D VII more concrete
daily rate*
 

* From an annual turnover of more than 500 million euros, the percentage fine limit of 2%
 
or 4% of the annual turnover as a maximum limit, so that the respective
companies, a calculation is made based on the actual turnover.

4. Multiplication of the basic value according to the severity of the offence
After that, based on the concrete crime-related circumstances of the individual case (cf.
Art. 83 Para. 2 Sentence 2 DS-GVO) a classification of the severity of the offense in easy,
medium, heavy or very heavy.

For this, according to Table 4 below, taking into account the
Circumstances of the individual case based on the catalog of criteria of Art. 83 Para. 2 DS-
GMO determines the severity of the allegation and the respective factor with which
the basic value is multiplied. With regard to the different fines
There are frameworks for formal (Art. 83 Para. 4 DS-GVO) and material (Art. 83
Para. 5, 6 DS-GVO) violations to choose different factors in each case. In the
Choosing the multiplication factor of a very serious crime, it should be noted that the
individual fines are not exceeded.

 

39

Table 4

degree of severity

Factor for formal violations
according to Art. 83 Para. 4 DS-GVO

Factor for material violations
according to § 83 para. 5, 6 DS-GVO

easy
medium
difficult
very difficult

1-2
2-4
4-6
>6

1-4
4-8
8-12
>12

5. Adjustment of the base value based on all other pros and cons

 
 
Concerned speaking circumstances

The amount calculated under 4. is based on all for and against the person concerned
or adapted to the circumstances of those affected, insofar as these have not already been done
under 4. were taken into account. This includes in particular all perpetrator-related
Generic circumstances (cf. criteria catalog of Art. 83 Para. 2 DS-GVO) as well as others
Circumstances such as a long duration of proceedings or an impending payment
ability of the company.

 

The fine concept guarantees a comprehensible, transparent and
individual form of fine assessment. At the same time it is through the
Consideration of all circumstances in the concrete procedure of the individual case
Law. This enables comprehensive judicial review and
Enforceability of fine assessment possible.

1.5 The cooperation of the data protection supervisory

 

 
authorities of the EU is picking up speed! - The
Service center for European affairs

The GDPR obliges the data protection supervisory authorities of the EU member states
states to cooperate closely in cross-border data processing.
In order to do justice to this new task, our authority has the service
set up European affairs.

40

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Chapter 1 Focus 1 5 The Service Center for European Affairs

 

Incoming complaints - but also all cases that we raise ex officio
attack and data breaches reported by companies – will initially
checked whether the objected processing of personal data
relates to cross-border data processing.21 This is particularly the case
the case when the person responsible is in more than one member state of the
EU is established and processing in several of these establishments
he follows. However, even in cases of only a single establishment in the EU
there is also cross-border processing if the processing
tion has a significant impact on data subjects in more than one
member state has or can have.

 

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information accordingly
speaking not only complaints against Berlin companies and authorities,
but also complaints that companies headquartered in other EU countries
affect member states. According to the so-called one-stop shop principle
cross-border data processing, the supervisory authority at the headquarters
of the company as the lead supervisory authority is the sole contact
partner for those responsible.

 

The GDPR stipulates that a co-
surgical procedure is carried out and intended measures between
these are to be coordinated.22 For this reason, cross-border
cases, an examination of whether the case processing in addition to the responsible
supervisory authority, other affected supervisory authorities are also to be involved.

The coordination in such matters takes place via the entry into force
The electronic internal market information system (IMI) set up under the GDPR.
All communication between all European clients takes place via IMI.
supervisory authorities. Incoming complaints with cross-border
train, our service point reports European matters as a first step
in IMI to determine the lead and affected supervisory authorities
den ein.23 To do this, she opens a new process in the system and summarizes the content

21 Art 4 No. 23 GDPR
22 Art 56, 60 ff GDPR
23 Art 56 GDPR

 
 
 

41

of the complaint and names the suspected responsible party and the
supervisory authorities presumed to be affected. Then the various
Authorities have a month to review the process and claim to be concerned
or lead authority. Even if by a leadership of
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information can be assumed that
the service point registers the complaint in IMI so that other authorities concerned
to inform.

 

However, the determination of the lead supervisory authority does not take place in
all cases easily. In one case, a complainant complained
e.g. via a company that offers its services to German-speaking people
customers, but according to the data protection declaration, the headquarters are in a different
ren Member State has. However, the supervisory authority of this member state shared
that the company is not registered there and that no location can be
be. After our authority contacts the branch in Berlin
had informed us that the branch had meanwhile
had been given up and the main branch was located in another
member state.

If it is confirmed in the procedure described that the spring guide at
the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information is
we will continue to process the complaint and contact the person responsible.
In the event that the lead management is assigned to another European supervisory
authority, the service point for European affairs forwards the complaint
to the relevant authority for processing. For this purpose, the complaint must
English to be translated as communication between different
supervisory authorities takes place in English.

The lead supervisory authority takes over the further determination of the
behavior and drafts a resolution after the conclusion of the examination, which they all
concerned supervisory authorities. They then have four weeks to
to check the design. Within this period you can object to the
Submit a draft.24 This ensures that a consensus can be reached between the

24 Art 60 Para 4 GDPR

 

42

Chapter 1 Focus 1 5 The Service Center for European Affairs

 

European supervisory authorities on the legal assessment of the respective case
consists.

Around 822 cases were processed in IMI in 2019 to identify the lead and
concerned supervisory authorities. All cases were reported in the service
put European affairs on a possible impact or leadership
checked by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. In
more than 390 cases, i.e. almost half of the cases, were affected by ours
Authority determined, so that we deal with the content of the respective facts
had to deal with.

Our authority is currently processing 35 complaints that we received from other
have been sent to supervisory authorities for processing. In addition
we already have a large number of complaints from those affected
received, which we transmit to other supervisory authorities for further processing
had to make changes because we were not in charge. Also in these cases
However, if we are the contact person for the complainants
deführer and inform them regularly about the status of the processing.

The number of complaints reported in IMI, investigations and
Data breaches have steadily increased. However, it is noticeable that the supervisory authorities
in the meantime have already conclusively checked for many companies
who is the lead regulator, so many incoming complaints
can be transmitted directly and the procedures are already
accelerate. This also leads to an increase in draft decisions that
Coordination between the European supervisory authorities published in IMI
will.

Our authority has already raised objections to resolutions in several cases
thrown in by other supervisory authorities, so that these
the authority had to be revised again. This concerned, for example, a case
in which the lead supervisory authority does not refer to one at all in terms of content
breach of data protection alleged in the complaint had been received. she planned
despite a clearly existing data protection violation, the procedure
ren. With the help of the objection, our authority still wants to do this
unresolved case that the data protection violation is established

 

43

and appropriate supervisory measures by the lead supervisory
supervisory authority to be met.

That against draft decisions in cases with a cross-border connection with
can be proceeded with the help of objections, the cooperation
between the supervisory authorities. This way you can
the decisions of the authorities are mutually reviewed until an agreement
agreement is reached or a dispute between the supervisory authorities
the EDSA, which was set up when the GDPR came into force
Working level, non-solvable cases final and binding for all EU
authorities to decide.

 

A particular problem is caused by the use of different national
onal procedural rules. In some member states25, for example, a so-called
amicable agreement as a measure to end the procedure. Through this
measure, numerous complaints are received from some supervisory authorities between
between the responsible company and the complainant.
settled with the complainant. The complaint is then deemed to have been withdrawn
and the data protection violation is neither determined nor subject to a regulatory
subject to measures.26 In the GDPR, an amicable agreement is
However, driving end measures are not provided, with the exception of the
Mentioned in a recital, which, however, only applies to a specific
limited scope.27 This led to conflicts between the
shared regulators. In our opinion, the application of good
Agreements as a measure to end the proceedings are extremely problematic.
Because with the amicable agreement, the coordination provided for in the GDPR could
agreement procedures between the supervisory authorities can be circumvented if the
Complainant to the assertion of claims
data protection rights are waived and the data protection violation is not sanctioned.
The application of such a national legal instrument can

 

25 So in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,
Lithuania, Latvia, Netherlands, Poland, Sweden, Slovakia, Great Britain, Estonia In
In Germany, an amicable agreement is not regulated in data protection law

26 Article 58 (2) GDPR
27 EC 131 GDPR

 
 

44

Chapter 1 Focus 1 5 The Service Center for European Affairs

 

 

not be wanted under European law, because the desired European unity
agreement in the area of data protection is impeded.

As already mentioned, the EDPB decides in cases where the supervisory
authorities do not have the lead or the legal assessment of a
agree on the facts. The so-called cohesion provided for in the GDPR for such cases
procedure28 is intended to ensure a uniform level of data protection in the member states
worry. In the event of disputes between the supervisory authorities, the EDPB issues a
A binding resolution to settle the dispute in cases where the
the supervisory authority concerned an objection to a draft decision of the
lead supervisory authority.29

An example from our case practice is based on a complaint that
received from our authority and from the supervisory authority of another
Member State has been processed as the lead authority. the complaint
führer complains about an incorrect data protection declaration on the website of a
bel company. In addition, the person concerned complains about an inappropriate
casual use of cookies on the company's website. As part of
of the cooperation procedure, the lead supervisory authority has
supervisory authorities concerned first submit a draft resolution to
mood.30 The lead supervisory authority did not present any
violation of data protection, but announced that the proceedings would be discontinued. There
however, in our opinion, there have been multiple data protection breaches
we appealed against this decision. We have argued that
the company has violated transparency regulations, for example. Besides that
were users in the data protection declaration only generally about the use of
Cookies informed, but neither in relation to the deployment and use of
Analysis services nor in relation to the integration of third-party providers (Facebook,
Twitter, Criteo). Since the revised draft decision of the responsible
supervisory authority did not remedy these deficiencies, the EDPB must now coherently
decision on the case if the lead supervisor
I still don't hear improved.

 

28 Art 63 GDPR
29 Art 65 Para 1 lit a GDPR
30 See Art 60 Para 3 Clause 2 GDPR

 
 
 

45

The European cooperation procedure is in the year after the entry into force of the
DS-GVO has been filled with life. Our authority works in a variety
of cases with other supervisory authorities. conflicts between
Supervisory authorities have so far been rather rare and are usually agreed
solved, so that the EDPB has not yet had to make a decision.
But such a thing could soon be imminent.

46

Chapter 1 Focus 2 1 Berlin administration on course for success?

 

 
 
2 Digital Management and

justice

2.1 Berlin administration on course for success?

 

Online portals are becoming the virtual entrance to the town hall. With just a few clicks
should citizens and companies digitalize their concerns and claims
tal and can process them completely electronically.

Current status of digitization
The Online Access Act passed by the federal legislature in August 2017
 
(OZG) stipulates that by the end of 2020 administrative services for citizens
and businesses need to be available online, with traditional
walkways, e.g. B. by post or via a citizens’ registration office, should continue to be open
len. With the establishment of a portal network, all administration portals of
Federal, state and local governments are networked with each other. From any location
From now on it should be possible to use every online service.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The implementation of the OZG is coordinated jointly by the Federal
Ministry of the Interior, Building and Community (BMI) and the Federal IT Cooperation
tion (FITKO), which promotes cooperation between the federal, state and local governments
coordinated. The federal and state governments, with the involvement of the municipalities
575 administrative services to be digitized were identified in 14 different
various subject areas were summarized. Each topic should now
leading in each case a tandem of representatives of the
technically responsible state ministry and the technically responsible federal
departments, supported by representatives of others
interested states. The preparation of the digitization of the concrete
Administrative services for the individual subject areas are carried out by the authorities
comprehensively jointly by the experts from the federal and state governments in these
tandem groups. The developed solutions can then be used by all federal states
otherwise be taken over.

47



The State of Berlin, together with the Federal Ministry of the Interior, is responsible for the topic
responsible for "cross-section". It is about administrative services that
apply to several subject areas; These include e.g.
wise, such as presenting a birth certificate. If within the scope of inheritance
Provision of an electronic administrative service, e.g. the submission of a
birth certificate may be necessary, this could be realized in various ways
be ted. In order to avoid media breaks, it would be conceivable that the data
the birth certificate with the consent of the user directly at the respective
Birth register can be queried. Also uploading a scanned
birth certificate by the user in an administration portal appears possible.
However, if this is not desired, it should remain possible
submit a copy of the proof in paper form.

 

With increasing digitization of administrative services, there are increased
Requirements for the transparency of administrative actions towards users
to end. Art. 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) sets the
essential principles for the processing of personal data.
Personal information may only be obtained lawfully, in good faith
processed in a manner that is comprehensible to the data subject
become31. The so-called data protection cockpit is of particular importance.
The purpose of the data protection cockpit is to show citizens
are what data from them, in the context of providing an electronic
Administrative service, “from where to where” flow. The requirements of a
Data protection cockpits are currently being carried out in a so-called digitization laboratory under
division of various actors32 defined. We are involved.

Current status of state legislation
As part of the implementation of the Federal Online Access Act (OZG),
State of Berlin state regulations for the implementation of administrative
gearing prepared. In our last annual report we discussed this in-
formed that the Senator for Interior and Sport a draft law
to improve online access to administrative services of the Berliner Ver-

 
 

31 Art 5 Para 1 lit a GDPR
32 Including a Federal Ministry of the Interior, for Building and Community as well as various specialist
administrations, including the Berlin Senate Department for the Interior and Sport, the Federal
commissioned for data protection and freedom of information etc

 

48

Chapter 2 Digital administration and justice 2 1 Berlin administration on course for success?

 

administration (Online Access Act Berlin – OZG Bln)33. This year
the parliamentary legislative procedure was initiated. Because our im
Previously expressed criticisms were only insufficiently considered, ha-
If we present this again to the responsible technical committees,
brought. Fortunately, this has meant that we are once again with the
Senate Department for the Interior and Sport to enter into the professional discourse and
significant improvements in data protection law.

Again and again we pointed out that it is necessary and expedient
It is reasonable to have your own legal bases for the processing of personal data
to create data in the Service Account Berlin and the other basic ICT services34
fen. To base the data processing solely on the consent of the user,
as originally intended by the Senate Department for the Interior and Sport,
would therefore lead to considerable difficulties in practical implementation
problems, as consent can also be revoked at any time. It is
very gratifying that the Senate Administration ultimately followed our advice. Then
to ensure that the use of the digital service is voluntary
the introduction of consent was not required. The voluntariness
the use of the digital offer is ensured by the determination
provision in the E-Government Act Berlin35 that citizens also know
afterwards can decide whether they want a service on conventional
Art or want to apply electronically.

In terms of the best possible transparency of administrative action, it was us
also important that a provision in the law ensures that citizens
citizens in cases where the required for a service
Evidence (e.g. a certificate) requested directly from other registers
or retrieved, can view them again in advance.

 

 
 

33 JB 2018, 2 1
34 These are information and communication technology applications
genes that are used by various administrative procedures of public bodies,
to provide electronic administrative services

35 Section 4 (7) E-Government Act Berlin

 

49

The digitization of administrative services can only be successfully
run when the users are ready to perceive them. For the necessary
Widespread acceptance is a far-reaching transparency of the electronic administration
action is essential. Clear legal regulations help here. we
will continue to actively support this process.

2.2 Digital key board for authorities
 

 

 
necessary

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

 

Berlin authorities are increasingly communicating with the help of digital communications
means of communication, such as email. This applies to both communication
between the authorities and citizens as well as for the municipalities
communication between the authorities. The confidentiality of the so transmitted
messages must be ensured. It is particularly important to
reliability if these messages contain sensitive data such as health
or social data are transmitted.

Both the sender and the recipient of electronic
technical and organizational measures must be taken
which are suitable for protecting the confidentiality of the messages transmitted
to guarantee. It is the task of the receiving authorities to
Provide the opportunity to receive messages confidentially. task of
It is up to the sender to use this opportunity. A suitable measure here
for is encryption, especially end-to-end encryption. at
The messages are encrypted before they are sent using end-to-end encryption
secured with a key and only then sent. Before the message
s, it must first be unlocked again using the associated key
be decrypted, which is known only to those authorized to receive it. will be one
encrypted message on the way to the recipient
intercepted or copied, unauthorized third parties can still not get the message
read because they do not have the appropriate key.

Of course, this creates a problem: In order to be able to decrypt the
the receiving station must have the appropriate key. at

50

Chapter 2 Digital administration and justice 2 2 Digital key board required for authorities

 

 

the classic, so-called symmetric encryption methods, this is
same key as used for encryption. So in order to
To protect the confidentiality of the content of the message, the key must also
such as the message while maintaining confidentiality to the recipient
recipients are transmitted. The original problem of warranty
the confidentiality of these procedures is only dependent on the confidentiality of the
Transmission of the message on the confidentiality of the transmission of the key
sels postponed.

Fortunately, today there are technical methods that solve this problem.
If you use so-called asymmetric encryption methods, there is instead
of one key two keys. One of these keys is a lock-
development key, the other is a decryption key. Because news
only encrypted and not decrypted with the encryption key
can be used, it is no problem to give this key to other people
share. The confidentiality of the encryption key is not a prerequisite
tion for the confidentiality of the message encrypted with it. Because the
encryption key can be publicly known, it is also called the
public key. However, the decryption key is mandatory
be kept secret, as the transmitted messages are decrypted with him
can become rare. That is why it is also called the decryption key
private key. In order to transmit a message in encrypted form, the
sending body only the encryption key of the recipient
Get recipient, encrypts the message with it and transmits it like this
encrypted message. The recipient decrypts
the message so received by means of her or his own decision-
development key.

If a message is encrypted with an incorrect encryption key
seldom, the recipient cannot de-
encrypt because he or she does not have the right decryption key.
Was the sender intentionally given an encryption key by
foisted on someone who has the appropriate decryption key
sits, he can then decrypt the message that is not intended for him
was. So there has to be a way for the sending body to ensure
use the correct key. A suitable way to solve the problem

51

solve, is a central body that the sender trusts and the
confirms with a certificate that a key belongs to a recipient
belongs to a recipient. Such a digital key board is called "Public
Key Infrastructure” or PKI for short. A sending body procures itself in this
this method from any source - e.g. from an unprotected sent
E-mail message, from a directory service, from the recipient's website
gers – the encryption key and certificate and checks it. falls that
If the test result is positive, then the body knows that you have the right key
present.

 

In addition to protecting the confidentiality of a message, the keys
and the certificates issued to them are used to pass messages through
reliably assign digital signatures to their authors and their
to confirm integrity. The consistent use of digital signs
naturen also helps to identify forged documents as such
and to be able to reject them without having to open them for viewing,
so that any malware they may contain will not run
becomes.

To create a digital signature, a checksum36 of the
generated document and then with a matching to the certificate
encrypts the secret key. The public
che key can then be used by the receiving body to
to decrypt the checksum. If the checksum of the document with
the decrypted checksum is identical, the receiving body can
rest assured that the document will come from the specified sending location
originates and has not been modified by any third party. So can by using
of certificates and the associated PKI not only confidentiality, but
the authenticity and integrity of a message are also protected. Both
can be combined depending on requirements, but also individually
be set.

36 This is a short string uniquely identified from the document with a standard

 

ted process is formed

52

Chapter 2 Digital administration and justice 2 2 Digital key board required for authorities

 

 

In Berlin, the IT service center (ITDZ) operates such a PKI for the
Berlin administration. Unfortunately, this service is currently only offered by a few
authorities used. In addition, the certificates issued by the ITDZ follow technical
technically outdated standards that are not suitable for protecting the confidentiality of
to ensure communication. We have therefore pointed out to the ITDZ that
the state PKI - the digital key board operated by the ITDZ - to the aktuell
technical specifications specified by the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI)
adapted to niche requirements.

With the modernized PKI, all authorities must then consistently and comprehensively
be provided with keys so that the confidentiality and the
Integrity of the digital communication of the authorities can be guaranteed.
This applies in particular to communication between the authorities. Yet
must also give companies and citizens the opportunity
be opened up with the various authorities while maintaining
Communicate confidentiality and integrity digitally in a simple way.

Authorities and citizens need a way to
to communicate with each other digitally in order to maintain confidentiality and integrity
adorn. Encryption and digital signature offer this possibility,
However, there are certified keys. The ITDZ PKI as a digital key board
for the administration must be modernized for their provision and the authorities
must be equipped with keys across the board.

53

2.3 Data protection-compliant use of

 

windows 10

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

The transition of administration to the current version of Windows 10 is over
essential for reasons of IT security, unless they rely on alternatives37
can or wants to give way. For data protection-compliant use of Windows 10
however, there are some hurdles to overcome. We have been working on
nes test catalog involved, with which the conference of independent data protection
zoversight authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) to those responsible
Help for the decision about the use of Windows 10.

 

Much has already been learned about the telemetry functions integrated in Windows 10
professionally reported. Telemetry means "remote measurement" and in Windows 10 means
it that background services, i.e. certain programs that are
NEN and users work invisibly, collect data and analyze it regularly
transmit to Microsoft servers. It is particularly problematic that micro
soft itself determines which data is involved: the definition of
The type and scope of the data to be transmitted is constantly indicated by Microsoft
fits, which makes it difficult to assess the transmission under data protection law.
In addition, Microsoft is part of the control of the telemetry function
Windows 10 also any programs on the users' computers
and user can execute. It is possible, among other things, to import content from the memory of the
computer to Microsoft. Microsoft establishes the collection and
Transmission of this telemetry data with it, troubleshooting and product
wanting to make improvements.

 

 

Entities deploying Windows 10 can limit the scope of the transfer of
Set telemetry data only in levels specified by Microsoft. while standing
the most data-saving variant "secure" only users of the "Enterprise" variant
of Windows 10 available, which is not sold to private individuals. U.N-

 
37

In some German cities, the switch to other operating system software
like Linux tested - and in the case of the city administration of Munich also carried out - in order to
 
reduce vendor dependency The alternative operating system
Software has the further advantage that the program logic is open and from third parties
 
checked and, in principle, further developed

 

 

54

Chapter 2 Digital administration and justice 2 3 Data protection-compliant use of Windows 10

 

 

depending on the set telemetry level, however, micro-
soft determines which data is thereby recorded. Although there are various
measures to reduce the volume of data transmitted. those featured there
However, measures do not help in the long term. At the latest with the next update
the settings must be checked and adjusted again if necessary.

 

In autumn 2019, the DSK therefore developed a test scheme for data protection for win-
dows 10 released as an application note. With the help of this test scheme
those responsible can ensure and document that the data protection
Legal requirements are met at all times when using Windows 10
will. To ensure this, depending on the type of data processed
if necessary, additional technical measures to prevent accidental
allowed transmission to be used.

 

Such measures must also be taken by the Berlin authorities,
which replace the previously used Windows 7 with Windows 10. Since Microsoft
regular support for Windows 7 ended on January 14, 2020, Win-
dows 7 can only be used in compliance with data protection from this point in time,
if additional support services purchased for a fee are used
be taken. The ITDZ has a concept for the so-called Berlin PC as an inventory
part of the ICT workplace, which in the future will be used almost everywhere in administration
tion is to be used, which also includes the safety and
should meet data protection requirements.

 

We have discussed this concept with the ITDZ and rate it as fundamental
Suitable for using Windows 10 in administration in compliance with data protection.
The ITDZ achieves this by providing the specialist users required by the administration
be operated without internet access and it is available on the respective work
platzcomputer also has a separate environment for internet use.
If the concept is implemented consistently, the requirements of the
DSK are complied with. We will continue to support and review the project
whether the concept is implemented in the administration in compliance with data protection.

Since by far not all Berlin authorities use the Berlin PC and the
Windows 10 is also used every day in non-public areas, it will
The topic of telemetry data will probably keep us busy for some time.

55

The use of Windows 10 is not permitted under data protection law as long as not
technical and organizational measures are used to avoid personal
son-related data from the use of the software or even from the content
ten documents submitted to Microsoft for use for its purposes
will. A test scheme from the German supervisory authorities helps those responsible
verbal, to ensure data protection-compliant use.

2.4 Malware infestation at the Superior Court

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

A malware infestation at the Superior Court has serious weaknesses
protection of the sensitive data processed by this court. we
have had the safety measures explained to us, which on the one hand prevent
and on the other hand taken after the infection to cope with the problems
fen have been and have made recommendations for further troubleshooting.
We also had corresponding discussions in two universities, which are in a similar way
way were affected.

In September, the Court of Appeal was informed by the ITDZ that
a computer from the Court of Appeal's network would try to
reach servers used by criminals to send commands and software
ware to be sent to malware running on the computer. A da-
An investigation carried out immediately uncovered a number of computers
Infection with Emotet malware. The locally installed on the computers
virus scanners had not noticed the infection.

Emotet was originally developed as a banking Trojan. He is currently in
used in combination with other malware components to
and harm authorities and extort funds from them. This
is often done by thoroughly encrypting all data that the malware
goods can be obtained. Those affected should then pay a “ransom”
before they – at best – receive a key with which they can retrieve the data
can decode. They cannot rely on that. The first infection
through such software is often done through a manipulated file that
sent to other people by email. To this file and the one that accompanies it
To make e-mail appear as believable as possible, the software uses templates,

56

Chapter 2 Digital administration and justice 2 4 Malware infestation at the Superior Court

which they communicate to a communication partner of the intended victim in a
infestation steals. Therefore, when infected with Emotet, it is not just with one
loss of access to certain data, but also with their disclosure
unauthorized third parties.

Based on the information provided by the ITDZ, the internet access of the
Superior Court deactivated, a little later the Superior Court also from Berlin
State network separated and almost the entire information technology of the court
shut down. These measures were taken before the malware data
could encrypt. However, it is unclear how the initial infection took place
took place and what steps the malware subsequently took
men has. It is therefore not certain which and how much data has been lost.
From the above reasons, however, it can be assumed that Emotet from the infected
ten computers has at least forwarded e-mail messages.

Since the Court of Appeal does not have a system with which it can reliably
Malware-free old systems and the data stored with them
ten, it decided to rebuild its entire network.
In this context, most are required by the Court of Appeal
Services relocated to ITDZ. The documents originally stored in the old system
remain isolated and are only available as an archive for inspection
tion This consistent approach stands in positive contrast to the clear
more limited measures, which include those also affected by the virus
universities have taken. These checked some, but by no means all
Locations where the malware could have nested and saw
no reason to make structural changes.

The reorganization of the information technology of the higher court is this the
Possibility also open up the structure of networks and applications better
set up than was previously the case. So the new system should have a
sharp separation between the internal for the different specialist procedures
components used and the external components for internet use and
have email communication. Only by sealing off those connected to the internet
net connected components and a division of the network into separate,
mutually separate areas it is possible to prevent an infection from spreading
spread to all information technology.

57

Another important step consists in equipping the judges
Judges of the court with mobile service devices that allow them to work in their
re home environment allow. So far, this homework - on legal
public basis – with private devices. As a result, data between
uncontrolled from these private devices and official information technology
exchanged, primarily via USB sticks or by sending them by e-mail. the
first form of data exchange, the court has to immediately after the incident
right locked. But the second form, which is still permitted, also offers malicious software
ware a way into the inner web of the court.

However, the understandable desire to work from home can also be
threat to data security are met in such a way that official data
Do not leave the specially protected internal area. have to
the laptops intended for working from home can be configured in such a way that they
can only connect to the internal network of the court and the
used office programs all processed documents exclusively on server
save vern of court. The configuration of the laptops must ensure
that the security measures used cannot be circumvented.

Lessons from the incident are not only for the Court of Appeal, but for everyone
authorities and public bodies of the State of Berlin. These differ-
which are reflected in measures to prevent infection and those that
available when a malware infection occurs.

For the state authorities, the implementation of the e-government
puts Berlin (EGovG Bln) to the centralization of data processing
contribute to future software running in an environment in which
security can be guaranteed with bundled expertise. the high
schools who will continue to operate their information technology themselves,
should expand their data centers to such environments and not just them
Administration, but also the processing of all sensitive personal data
Relocate data to these secure environments for research purposes, to the extent
this is possible without restricting the freedom of research.

All public bodies will provide additional advice in particular on safe
administrative practice, the design of networks and risk analysis

58

Chapter 2 Digital administration and justice 2 5 Official data protection officers of the courts and public prosecutors

 

necessitate. There needs to be a centrally provided service that has the capabilities
detect potential risks in files beyond the usual anti-virus software
which the authorities can reach from external sources, in particular via e-mail
chen. And in the event that an infection with malware nevertheless occurs,
the public authorities require a guideline and a computer emergency
fall team that will be at your side quickly.

The mixing of the processing of private and business
data, both in the business environment and when working from home. who in
Home office works, requires a company-provided device. We recommend that
Legislators, the regulation of § 23 of the law on the execution of the court
constitutional law (AGGVG), the judges and
public prosecutors the use of private information
technical devices allowed.

The security of the systems used is a prerequisite for data protection
former official activity. Therefore, it is imperative that the architecture
the information technology used with regard to protection against
to design software. Private and business must be strictly separated. With
decisive, proactive action must prevent further infections with harmful
countered by software and infections that have nevertheless occurred must
closed, contained and eliminated competently and quickly.

2.5 Cooperation with official data

 

protection officers of the courts and state
legal offices

For almost ten years we have held regular working meetings with the official
chen data protection officers of all Berlin courts and public prosecutors
through. Here we discuss current data protection problems and questions
from the practical work of the data protection officer.

There have been regular meetings between our agency and the
official data protection officer of the district courts. We continue this tradition

59

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

since 2011 on a larger scale. The reason for this was one of us
Conducted seminar on "Data protection in the judiciary" in the Judicial Academy
demia in Königs Wusterhausen38. At this event, many participants
the desire for a regular meeting to discuss
tion of data protection issues and the exchange of experiences.

The official data protection officers of the courts and public prosecutors
Most of them have legal training and lead in these rounds
to have very qualified and committed discussions with us-
the data protection issues.

Recurring topics are those related to the implementation of data protection
technically necessary organizational measures in the courts and
to proceed on the admissibility of the use of court and administrative files
cross-border purposes. From the colleagues in the houses
In addition, regular questions about employee data protection are sent to the international
approached a data protection officer, who we did at our work meetings
discuss together. In addition, the role, the tasks and the
Rights of the official data protection officers discussed.

The work of the official data protection officer is therefore particularly important
so important because these data processing processes and their weak points
know each other very well on site. From this knowledge we can
work and exchange benefit, and in turn the internal data protection
assisting those responsible in fulfilling their duties.

38 Central training center for the judiciary of the state of Brandenburg and for the higher

 

ren service of the state of Berlin

60

Chapter 2 Digital administration and justice 3 1 Threatening letters to the left scene with data from police databases

 

Home and Sports

 
3
3.1 threatening letters to the left scene with data from
 

police databases

The threatening letters to the left scene kept us busy in 2019.
various institutions classified as politically left were in December
2017 letters with personal data (including names and photos) and a
text that is threatening to those affected. The photos used and
Information indicated that they were obtained from police databases
came from. Therefore, immediately after this case became known, we
extensive tests carried out and a lengthy correspondence with the
police and the public prosecutor's office in Berlin.39

 

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

After we received notification in October 2018 that a police
official of the State of Berlin as the author of the threatening letters and against him
a penalty order had already been issued, we contacted the police again
fluent. A further examination was necessary as we did not have any information on this
templates, where the personal data contained in the letters sent came from
Data specifically came from, how the author was able to get this data and
whether he had obtained it himself or whether it was in the ranks of the police
internal or accomplices. A central question was to what extent the perpetrator
had the technical authorization to access the data of the persons concerned
to access and download (image) files from the police databases
and store externally. In contrast to the criminal sanctioning of
specific incident by the judiciary, we wanted to identify possible weaknesses
in the technical and organizational measures for the use of the data
bank systems of the police in order to recommend suitable counter-
measures to prevent such incidents in the future as far as possible.

To clarify the open points, we have received several written
taken by the police. On the other hand, we have log data from

39 See the detailed description in the 2018 Annual Report, p. 55 et seq

 

61


police database POLIKS in the period relevant to the offense
evaluates in order to check the access to the data of the persons concerned.

Unfortunately, it could not be clearly explained how the author
the threatening letters to the personal data of those affected, in particular
the image files. It is conceivable that at an earlier point in time he
had permissions to download and store POLIKS content.
However, it cannot be ruled out that the data may be accessed by other authorized persons
were made available, even if the pro-
record data no clear indications of specific accomplices
have revealed.

Admittedly, misuse of the police databases by individual police
license employees cannot be completely prevented. The police are though
encouraged to take appropriate technical and organizational measures
access the protection of personal data in the databases
ensure the best possible.40

3.2 Control of the police information

 

systems POLICIES

In particular, the difficulties in identifying the perpetrator, the threatening letters
to the left scene with personal data from police databases
had sent,41 were reason for us to fundamentally limit data processing in political
licensed information system POLIKS as part of an on-site inspection
check over.

The audit focused on checking compliance with the POLIKS
applicable review and erasure periods and investigating the possibilities of
employees of the police to inspect POLIKS.

40 See 3 2
41 See 3 1

 
 

62

Chapter 3 Internal affairs and sport 3 2 Control of the police information system POLIKS

 

We found that the police have been using automated deletion since June 2013
switched off completely in POLIKS. The reason for this was an instruction from
Senate Department for the Interior and Sport, no files and files "with references
on right-wing extremism” to destroy or delete it to ensure
that the investigative committee of the German Bundestag on the so-called "NSU"
access to all relevant data and documents.42 This directive
has been renewed annually since then. It was also replaced by a second extinguishing
ratorium on the occasion of the attack on Breitscheidplatz in December 2016
added.43 The police should ensure that no files or data are
be deleted or erased "that are or are connected with the attack
hen”, since the appointment of a committee of inquiry was expected
became. In the meantime, appropriate investigative committees have been set up
the Berlin House of Representatives and the German Bundestag. Also
the Breitscheidplatz extinguishing moratorium has been extended annually since then. One
Since then, data has only been deleted manually by the police on the basis of
specific inquiries or deletion requests for specific processes.

 

Failure to delete personal data in POLIKS is legal
contrary to the extent that storage is not required to fulfill the responsibility of the
Police lying tasks or for purposes of the committees of inquiry to
 
so-called "NSU" and the Breitscheidplatz assassination is required.44

Those that are ready for deletion, but are continuously stored due to the deletion moratorium
At least up to the time of our examination, data were not
limited grip. The police only started moving in September 2019
of this data in a protected area set up for this purpose.

This lack of access restriction was also illegal. As far as the data
could continue to be stored due to the deletion moratoria, they would have
must be withdrawn from general access via POLIKS.45 This is the only way
guarantees that those authorized to use POLIKS exclusively

42 NSU deletion moratorium
43 Solicited Breitscheidplatz extinguishing moratorium
44 See §§ 48 Para. 2 Sentence 1 No. 1; 42 para. 1 sentence 1 General security and order

 
 
 

tion law (ASOG)

45 See Section 32 (1) No. 5, Section 50 (3) Sentence 1 No. 5 of the Berlin Data Protection Act (BlnDSG)

 

63

the personal data covered by their access authorization
have.46

Furthermore, we found during our examination that the police within the framework of the
Access control at POLIKS also does not carry out any suitable random sampling
leads. The controls currently being carried out by the police are being
not from an organizationally and thematically separate and thus independent
carried out at a certain point, which weakens the validity of the results.

In addition, the controls are obviously not effective, because so far in no
recent case, irregularities or unauthorized access have been detected
are, although our authority regularly makes unauthorized retrievals in POLIKS
Police employees are reported and also punished by us. That's why
and due to the large number of retrievals that take place in POLIKS every day, there is a high
dark figure to be feared.

Particularly problematic was the finding that the system setting of
POLIKS enables data retrieval without giving specific reasons. at the domestic
Person searches possible within the database can in part be very general
my query reasons such as "processing" or "other reason"
to be chosen. For the necessary addition to the selected query
Basically, it is even sufficient to enter any three characters such as "xxx" in a free text field.
to enter A tracing and verification of the legality of queries
thus becomes impossible. General keywords contain by themselves
no statement about the specific reason for the query and are therefore not revised
onssure. Only formally fillable free text fields represent a subsequent transfer
verifiability not sure.

 

The current system of people tracing is unlawful.47 The law writes
stipulates that queries from POLIKS are also logged with regard to their justification
Need to become. The legislative aim is to guarantee the subsequent
Liability to verify the authorization of the queries by the data subjects,
by those responsible as part of an internal audit and by the people of Berlin

46 So called access control
47 See Section 62 Paragraph 1 No. 3, Paragraph 2 BlnDSG

 
 

64

Chapter 3 Home Affairs and Sport 3 3 Delays in responding to requests for information from the police
 

 

Commissioner for data protection and freedom of information. The logging is in-
as far as elementary for the enforcement of data subject rights and last but not least
for the fulfillment of the legal task also of our authority, the application
to monitor and enforce data protection regulations.48

We complained to the police about the identified violations and
legal adjustments required.

POLIKS is one of the most important electronic work tools for the police and
accordingly holds a large amount of personal data, some of which is very sensitive.
It is therefore extremely important that the police check the admissibility of the
data storage and access to this system are closely
quickly and effectively controlled and allows for retrospective reviews.

3.3 Delayed response to information

 

 
inquiries by the police

We received more and more complaints about the fact that the police
Requests for information and requests for deletion have not yet been received, even after a long wait
had been answered.

We asked the police for their opinion on this and pointed out that
that the response to the above-mentioned requests will be received regularly without delay
should follow. The police must take the necessary organizational measures
took meet. We were then informed that the average
Processing time for applications to the police at the moment due to the enormous
given number of applications takes about seven months. With the processing are regular
moderately employs three people and two assistants.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Our own letters to the police authorities are often only delayed
answered. Regular reminders are required, which is an unnecessary one

48 See Section 11 Paragraph 1 Sentence 1 No. 1 BlnDSG

 

65

meant more work for us. This also means that the processing
delay reporting complaints to us.

In a conversation with the chief of police, we pointed out the problems
matic. She justified the long processing time with staff shortages
senior However, you will have it checked whether other employees are responsible for the fulfillment
of these tasks could be used. We recommend at least a preliminary
Temporary personnel reinforcement of the area to process the previous ones
requests.

The right to information about the storage of personal data and
the deletion of such data is part of the rights of those affected
are a core component of the right to informational self-determination. To the
The procedural procedure must be designed efficiently to ensure these rights
and possibly also more staff to process applications.

3.4 fine procedure: file number visible
 

 

in the address field
 

 

For all automatically generated letters from the fine, the police authorities
money office in addition to the address and the file number of the respective fine
procedure in the visible address field of the letters to those affected. about this
one of those affected complained to us. We have the reason for the complaint
taken to examine this addressing practice of the police.

During the investigation, the police informed us that the playback of the
tenzeichen in the address window is necessary to the official delivery of
Writing to request the proper completion of a postal delivery certificate
possible. Only by matching the file number on the letter
envelope with the file number on the postal delivery document
would it be possible to prove that the specific document was also granted
was placed. We agree with this assessment.

66

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Chapter 3 Internal affairs and sport 3 4 fine procedure: file number visible in the address field
 

 

 

 

However, only certain letters, in particular the penitentiary
notice of payment as part of fine proceedings, by means of a postal delivery
certificate officially delivered. For all other automatically created letters
such as hearings, warnings and reminders, the announcement takes place
immediately by dropping it in the mailbox. In these cases, too, one believed oneself
authorized to print the file number in the address field at the police station, because one
thus have a sorting criterion for undeliverable returned mail. Added
come that from the specification of the file number no gain in knowledge regarding
that a concrete act is possible and that one can also use other means (online,
by telephone or on site) no information solely through knowledge of the respective
ten sign.

However, the question of the admissibility of data processing is not decisive
dend whether third parties can thereby obtain further information. Rather is
decisive whether the printing of a file number in the address field of letters
required for the police. With the file number of a fine procedure
is it just in connection with an address a personal
genes date, the specification of which in the address field of a letter for normal delivery
It is not necessary to send a letter by post. mail returns
can also be processed without this sorting criterion, since the identification
of the persons concerned via the address data and, in cases of doubt, the person concerned
Envelope can also be opened.

We have therefore asked the police to stop the existing practice and
adjust the templates. The police then said a change of address
planning practice.

Only in the case of notices of fines that are officially delivered may the file reference
be visible in the address field of letters.

67

3.5 Data processing in the population register:
 

 

 
Mix-ups & more

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Registration authorities49 are legally obliged to work within their area of responsibility
to register the persons residing in order to determine their identity and residence
to be able to provide and prove. To do this, they keep a register of residents
certain data are entered that were collected from the data subject,
transmitted by public authorities or officially known in any other way
will. Section 3 of the Federal Registration Act (BMG) determines which personal
no data may be stored in the population register. Further dates or
Wise may only be stored under certain conditions. the
Registration authorities are also authorized to provide information from the registration register
the execution of tasks of other authorities or other public
to cooperate and to transmit data. Personal data may
however, will only be processed if this is regulated by law.50

In 2019, we received numerous inquiries and complaints about the
data processing by the registration authorities. As part of the investigation of complaints
has become visible how important it is to deal carefully with the context
with the storage and retrieval of the data contained in the population register.
What effects it can have if errors occur here should be
are presented below using a few selected cases.

One of those affected told us that he was contacted by various official bodies
received letters in which he was written about as the owner of a motor vehicle
ben. These included a notice from the Berlin Motor Vehicle Registration Office
authority, a letter on a seizure and confiscation order
main customs office in Berlin and a reminder regarding the due date of a vehicle
Tax of the main customs office in Frankfurt/Oder. The person concerned explained to us afterwards
enforceable that he is not the correct addressee of this letter
because he had neither a driving license nor a motor vehicle. With us

49 In Berlin, these are the district offices and the state office for civil and regulatory

 

opportunities (LABO) - see § 1 para. 1 BlnAGBMG

50 See the regulations in § 2 BMG for the aforementioned tasks and powers

 

68

Chapter 3 Internal affairs and sport 3 5 Data processing in the population register: mistaken identity and more

 

 

Seren investigations turned out that the letters due to a
mistaken identity had been sent to the complainant and
actually concerned a person with both the same first and last name
than was born on the same day and in the same city. only in
the two other first names of the complainant differed from his
Data from the actual owner of the motor vehicle. A government agency had one
Initiated a civil register query to find out the new address of the person with the same name
to find out. Since such a population register query as information on
Personal identification usually only a first name plus the last name and
the date of birth is entered, the querying body received the address
our complainant. On the two other first names, on which the two
the persons should have been distinguished, was apparently not respected.

In another case, a person received information about the issuance of a
nes certificate of good conduct, although she had not applied for one. The responsible authority
Circumstances admitted that this was due to a mistaken identity
was. A person of the same name had in the consultation hours of a mobile citizen
office to issue a certificate of good conduct. Due to technical
problems and the numerous waiting customers decided
the clerk to initially only record the application data for this, the
Administrative fees to levy and the application afterwards in stationary
to process citizenship. However, when accepting the application, he forgot
date of birth of the applicant. In the later processing
processing of the application, the search for the applicant was carried out via
the search mask of the editing software only with the prefix and family
names. It was overlooked that in Berlin two people with this name
are reported, but differ with regard to the date of birth.
For the application processing, the wrong data was accidentally taken from the
Register selected.

Finally, two of those affected contacted us, who repeatedly wrote about the
had received from the police, with whom she was the guardian of an underage refugee
have been written to. Although they had the guardianship of a
taken over by young people who had fled, but not for the
minors addressed in this letter. When asked, the police said
inform those affected that the data for the police summons letter

69



were obtained from the population register. So it had to be assumed
that incorrect data was stored in the population register. It is stipulated by law
that in the dataset of minor children also certain personal data
Data of the legal representatives are to be entered.51 Information on this will be provided
regularly directly with the persons concerned, e.g. by filling out the registration form
sham, raised. In addition, the registration authorities can
also due to legally mandated data transfers from other
received from public authorities or through investigations ex officio
raise. As part of our audit, we found out which district office
the two complainants as legal guardians in the dataset of the person concerned
had saved underage refugees. According to the entry, the basis was
the decision of a district court in the population register, which, however, is no longer
was to be found. Due to the lack of documents, it was not possible to conclude
need to clarify what had led to the registration of false guardianship.
Since the youth welfare office is the district office, however, the actual legal guardians
communicated, must be due to an oversight on the part of the responsible district office employee
be assumed when entering the population register.

 

In practice, people with the same name are not uncommon. To per-
to avoid confusion when retrieving data from the population register
avoid, the official body must provide sufficient information when searching for a person
Information to identify the data subject entered as search characteristics
ben. Unequivocal identification is regularly possible, if at least
the surname, if applicable the maiden name, the first name or names, the
date of birth and last known address. Even with care
of the population register data, the registering body must proceed carefully in order to
to ensure that only correct data on the respective persons is
be saved.

51 § 3 para. 1 no. 9 BMG

 

70

Chapter 3 Internal affairs and sport 3 6 Blocking information in the population register

 

3.6 Blocking information in the population register due to
 

 

change of first name or
 
gender

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

 

As part of a complaints procedure, a citizen informed us about
Difficulties in connection with the establishment of an information block
in the registration register. During an appointment at the Citizens Registration Office, the person concerned had
an application to set up a blocking of information due to the change in the
named according to § 1 Transsexual Act (TSG). The clerk
of the Citizens’ Registration Office mistakenly assumed that he was blocked from providing information because of a
Danger to life, health, personal freedom or similar things worthy of protection
Interests52 wanted to apply and gave him the corresponding application.
Only as part of the further processing of the application by the state office
for civil and regulatory affairs (LABO) and after we adhere to the
LABO, it became clear that the person concerned actually had a blocked
correction of his data set because of a change of first name.53 For this
no application would have been necessary at all, because those affected have in
In these cases, you are entitled to an automatic blocking of information. The LABO checked
then the data records contained in the population register for the person concerned and
informed us that the complainant was already due to a
another district office actually already carried out a name change
information ban had been set up.

This case has shown us that the procedure for setting up a transmission
Registration ban in the population register due to a change of first name or
Apparently not all of those affected and citizens’ offices
tern is known, so that the misunderstanding described or not
proper processing of the citizens' concerns could come.

Persons who do not choose their birth sex but a different sex
badly feel that they belong, have the right to appear in a judicial
change their first name and their gender characteristic (marital status) from female

52 See Section 51 (1) BMG
53 See Section 51 (5) BMG in conjunction with the Personal Status Act (PStG), TSG

 
 

71

male or vice versa. The TSG sees two procedures
with different legal effects. On the one hand, this concerns the
change of the person concerned without changing the date of birth and registration
deregister registered gender (§ 1 TSG) and on the other hand the
judicial determination of a change in gender (§ 8 TSG).
If the court decision is final, then at the time of
First name or gender without the consent of the decision
Applicant are not disclosed or explored in principle.54
 

The registration authority changes the first name or gender in the
Civil register only if, by submitting a court order, the
respective change has been proven or the registry office has
announced a change in status. For making the record lock
no separate application by the person concerned is necessary in the population register.
Rather, the blocking of information is registered ex officio if the notification
de authority a change of first name or gender in the population register
makes. The data record with the former first name or gender is also
automatically closed in the specialized procedure and a new data set is created
 
builds.55

Affected people already have one after the first name change according to § 1 TSG
The right to be addressed and addressed according to their new understanding of their role
to be written to.56 To ensure this, the relevant
to make changes to the population register data without delay. in the frame
With information from the population register, however, there is a fundamental risk
that by transmitting the former first name also the fact of the trans-
sexual history becomes known. Therefore, the registration authority has ex officio
to enter in the population register because of an information ban. The district offices
or their responsible bodies should familiarize themselves with this lesser-known
Familiarize yourself with the ban on coming in the population register, so that citizens
Citizens can be given appropriate advice.

54 Section 5 (1) TSG and Section 10 (2) TSG
55 See No. 3 1 1 3 in conjunction with No. 3 1 1 1 General administrative regulation for implementation

 
 

of the Federal Registration Act (BMGVwV)

56 BVerfG, decision of August 15, 1996 – 2 BvR 1833/959

 

72

Chapter 3 Home Affairs and Sport 3 7 Police Confidentiality Agreement for MPs
 

 

 

3.7 Police Confidentiality Agreement
 

 

for MPs
 

 

We were told about it by a member of the Berlin House of Representatives
informed that the police authority of him as part of his regular
shadowing, but also in regular conversations, which he in his capacity
as a Member of Parliament, the submission of a written "commitment
declaration to maintain data secrecy (“non-disclosure declaration”)
in connection with the implementation of office visits, hospital
tion and operational support”. We were asked to check in-
how far through the obligation to submit the declaration the constitutional
tasks of the deputy are limited.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Obtaining a non-disclosure obligation in advance of job shadowing
with authorities is common practice and represents an important measure to
of official secrets. In general, it makes sense to keep such a
declaration of security not only to refer to official secrets, but to them
also extend to personal data for the purpose of data protection.
Service secrets and personal data can have the same content
concern (e.g. patient data within the framework of medical confidentiality),
are, however, usually different pieces of information and therefore different from each other
separate. The use of a non-disclosure agreement in the context of hospital
ments with authorities, which also includes the protection of personal data, the
are taken note of by the respective trainees is therefore fundamental
to be endorsed and recommended.

When asked about the legality of a non-disclosure agreement, the
is demanded by members of parliament, both data protection law and (national
des) constitutional aspects touched.

It is generally recognized that from Art. 45 Para. 2 of the Berlin Constitution (VvB)
 
a constitutional right to information from members of parliament
public institutions of the country can be derived. The standardized
However, MPs' right of inspection is not unlimited. The insight-
The inclusion of a Member of Parliament in the files can be rejected if predominantly

73

This is mandatory if there are public or private interests in maintaining secrecy
require.57
 

Protected public interests include the protection of law enforcement
and preventive police investigations; overriding private interests
are in particular those of the protection of personal data. Are at the
Access to personal data of special categories, such as health
data, touches, Art. 45 VvB conforms to European law in the light of Art. 9 DS-GVO
about the admissibility of the processing of such sensitive data
the result that in this case is mandatory by an overriding private
interest and a requirement of secrecy is to be assumed.

It can thus be stated that a non-disclosure agreement that it
MEPs are generally prohibited from processing personal data,
would disproportionately restrict MEPs' right to information
and would therefore be inadmissible. A statement stating that disclosure of
to refrain from sending personal data of special categories58 to third parties and
not to publish any of this data, on the other hand, would be permissible. This also applies to
a statement prohibiting MPs from taking pictures, private
letters and telephone numbers of individuals to third parties
or to publish.

We have submitted this opinion to the Senate Department for the Interior and Sport in a
communicated with a written statement. The text of the statement, which initially
contained the obligation to stop any processing of personal data (as well as
operational and/or criminal-tactical information) was
changed afterwards.

Against the use of the revised version of the "Obligation to
Maintaining official secrecy (“non-disclosure agreement”) in connection
menhang with the implementation of office visits, job shadowing and
Operational accompaniment of the Berlin police" also for members of the
tenhauses von Berlin does not have any basic data protection laws

 
57 Article 45 paragraph 2 sentence 2 VvB
58
 

i S v Art 9 DS-GVO

74

Chapter 3 Interior and Sport 3 8 Consent to "mini-championships" in table tennis

 

 

To ponder. This also applies to the regulation that a transfer of personal
related data (especially in the case of special categories of personal
drawn data) to third parties as fundamentally inadmissible. However, should
the term "third party" is defined in more detail here. To the extent that the regulation
orderly would be prevented from gaining insights that they
particularly in the context of their parliamentary activities
People within the parliamentary space (e.g. other MPs)
passed on, their function as a control body of the executive could be inappropriate
be casually restricted.

 

3.8 Consent for "mini-championships"
 

 

in table tennis

 

The German Table Tennis Federation e. V. organizes for the purpose of membership
winning the so-called mini-championships, in which children up to 12 years without
prior registration can participate. The children could give their consent
consent to the processing of the data so that the next
learn about the locations and dates of the championships. There was a complaint about this
with us.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

In principle, data processing cannot be based on the consent59 of children
otherwise be supported. In children of the age group in question, it is absent
it regularly falls short of the ability to give informed consent. Then
such consent requires that the children accept the consequences of the
understand how their data is used and are also able to
exercise rights independently.

Under certain conditions, however, the processing of the data can be
based on the GDPR as the legal basis60. Accordingly, it would be permissible
if they are necessary to protect the legitimate interests of those responsible
is, “unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the persons concerned

59 Art 6 Para 1 lit a, Art 7 GDPR
60 Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR

 
 

75

person who require the protection of personal data prevail, in particular
especially when the data subject is a child”.

The recruitment of members through the events of championships without
Prior registration represents a legitimate interest of the Table Tennis Federation.
The collection and storage of the data is also necessary because the children
one does not always know the next event dates and locations, for
whose only the data of the children are recorded, which are for the next
qualified for the round. Although the European legislator61 points out that
that, particularly in the case of children, there is a predominance of their interests
going out to eat. However, an examination in individual cases can result in
that the balance of interests is in favor of the organizer. This is off-
depending on the specific design and the protective measures taken
men. In this case, the children should only be sent once by post and exclusively to
written notification of the date and place of the event. About that
In addition, the parents of the children should have the right to object to data processing
be granted. After the cover letter and the implementation of the next
In addition, the data should be deleted. Therefore is merely of minor
to assume impairments.

Children under the age of 12 cannot regularly provide informed consent
to grant data processing, as they only accept the consequences of their consent
difficult to estimate. A case-by-case weighing of interests can
however, lead to the result that data processing in such cases
is nevertheless permissible.

61 Art 6 Para 1 lit f last HS DS-GVO

 

76

Chapter 3 Internal Affairs and Sport 3 9 Publication of contact details on a sports portal

 

3.9 Disclosure of Contact Information

 

a sports portal

The Table Tennis Association Berlin-Brandenburg e. V. published private con-
clock data of persons elected in functions and team leaders
(mobile phone number and e-mail address) in the publicly accessible area
their website. This should limit communication related to table
enable tennis tournaments. The data were collected from a club of the federation
set on the platform.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The table tennis association uses for the organization of association games between
member associations a website. This portal serves primarily as a communi-
cation platform and to publish tournament results. It has a
publicly accessible area and a password-protected member
rich.

In the present case, both the association that manages the platform
provides, as well as the club itself, which the data in the section "club information"
made publicly available.

If the data subjects have not given their consent, publication
Disclosure of the private contact details of club members only lawful,
if they are to protect the legitimate interests of the person responsible or
of a third party is required and the fundamental rights and freedoms of the
met not outweigh62. While providing the ability to communicate
in connection with the tournaments organized by the Table Tennis Association
legitimate interest. However, the publication of the private con-
Clock data in the publicly accessible area is not required for this. To that extent
a less drastic means is available. The contact details must
can only be viewed by participants in the tournament. Since the
Table Tennis Association also a closed member area of the portal to
available, it would be possible for the club and the table tennis association
wesen to publish the data deemed necessary there.

62 Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR

 

77

The publication of private contact data in the publicly accessible area
a website of a sports association is usually not necessary and
with unlawful. It is sufficient if such contact information is in a suitable
word-protected member area.

78

Chapter 3 Interior and Sport 4 1 Jelbi” – the BVG mobility app

 

 
4 Transport and Tourism
 
4.1

Jelbi” – the BVG mobility app

The BVG is increasingly pursuing the goal of expanding its own offerings as well
transport companies in the sense of “intermodal transport” via their own
to offer apps. Offers that are different are referred to as intermodal
Combine and match modes of transport to get the one you want
route of the user to develop the best possible connection
wrap. This can mean, for example, that a route that
interested parties have always traveled by car in the past, they now have an alternative
in a combination of local public transport and rental bicycles
will beat, since this is an even faster, more ecological or even cost-saving
viable alternative would be.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Through such offers, various means of transportation should make sense
be linked together. In addition to other providers who offer such services
have been available for a long time, the BVG has now also proposed a
published its own app called "Jelbi" a few months ago, which, in addition to driving
also offers bookings and payment for travel options.

The BVG's approach to promoting intermodal transport is fundamental
quite welcome. However, with such offers also very
a lot of personal data to63, which is treated in accordance with data protection
have to. This was largely disregarded during the development of the "Jelbi" app.
tet. The application was developed by the BVG rather and the public
presented without the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
Onsfreiheit informed in advance about the project and asked for an opinion
would have been.

63 U a Movement data, means of transport used, address data, possession of a driving license and

 

payment details

79

Unfortunately, we were only able to check the offer after we left the
press learned about the project. Even with a cursory review
of the offer, we identified various data protection violations. That's how they became
Movement data of the users initially only insufficiently anonymized, where
created by customizable movement profiles. To complain about was
In addition, there is insufficient transparency towards customers
with regard to the third-party companies commissioned as part of the "Jelbi" offer
men. Even for small amounts, creditworthiness information has already been
commissioned payment service provider, unless the user has previously
were already known. This even in cases where a credit check has already been carried out
therefore would not have been necessary because - e.g. when paying with a credit
ditkarte - the payment is already guaranteed by the card-issuing institute.
It was further noted that when looking for suitable means of transport
sometimes personal data of the user is then passed on
ben when only traffic information was desired and still
no binding booking. When booking, the detailed information was missing, which
Master data is passed on to the respective mobility partner. Provided
a driving license was required, e.g. when booking rental cars, must
asked the user to confirm the authenticity of the information contained in the driver's license
Personal data in addition to your driver's license, your identity card and a
Submit video or image to service provider Veriff for verification.

 

 

 

Overall, it has been shown that the BVG still has various data protection problems
had to lift and the "Jelbi" system was not considered at the time of our review
could be considered data protection compliant.

We have therefore instructed the BVG to remedy the problems mentioned and
to ensure a data protection-friendly option for using the offer
wear. The BVG then began subjecting its apps to a data protection
subject to legal review. In addition, for the time being, the spoke
Apart from the processing of movement data at “Jelbi” until the BVG has a mature
has developed an anonymization concept.

80

Chapter 4 Transport and Tourism 4.2 A Complete Database? – The free BVG student ticket

In terms of increased convenience for customers and
Promotion of sustainable and environmentally friendly mobility are intermodal
Transport offers like “Jelbi” are to be welcomed. However, here should always
the expected benefit of the technology with the possible data protection
legal risks are weighed. In addition to data security and
Data protection is also sufficient transparency towards customers
important to employees and customers so that they are always fully informed
which data may be collected and which bodies have access to their data
to have. Only in this way can the right to informational self-determination of the user
can also be effectively implemented. We will further development
therefore observe carefully with "Jelbi".

4.2 A complete database? – The free one

BVG student ticket

The Berlin Senate has decided to offer a so-called free
to introduce a special student ticket for local public transport. The application
of the ticket is only possible online with the BVG using a form
to which a passport photo of each student is to be uploaded.
We have therefore received several complaints and general inquiries about this
procedure and the storage of the data at the BVG. A worry
was that the BVG is building a database of all students.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

Reduced monthly and annual tickets for schoolchildren were
already sold by subscription. They were subsidized by the state of Berlin
tioned, which is why they are regularly significantly cheaper than regular subscriptions
were. The Senate has now decided to enter for all students
offer a free annual ticket, which is still a subscription
ment, not simply free travel for all schoolgirls
and students, for which, for example, the student ID card would suffice as proof.
The only difference from the previous situation is that the families
now receive a 100% subsidy from the state of Berlin for these tickets
received instead of the previous partial subsidization. The subscription model
was chosen because on the one hand the BVG in this way through

81

the free school tickets with the state of Berlin
account and the Senate in return can understand, among other things, how many people
take advantage of this offer.

 

The free student ticket is used by all Berlin local transport companies,
i.e. the S-Bahn, the Verkehrsverbund Berlin-Brandenburg (VBB) and the BVG,
issued. Parents, guardians or students
conclude a subscription contract with one of these local transport companies
men. The BVG collects the data for this contract and stores it during the
Term of subscription in one database along with other active ones
Subscription Agreements. If the contract is not continued, the data in
moved to a separate and restricted system. In this system
the data will be stored for as long as this is required by commercial and tax law
is mandatory.

The BVG, like the other transport companies, is opposed to the
State of Berlin accountable. She must therefore prove how many
certificates were issued to receive the compensation payments and this
to be able to prove in detail in the case of an audit. accordingly
Accordingly, the BVG is obliged to collect and record data from all persons
store who subscribe to a free student ticket.

 

In principle, there are no data protection concerns. we
However, we are currently checking to what extent there is still room for improvement in individual
possible, e.g. whether all the required data is actually
need to be collected, such as the date of birth of legal guardians.
In addition, the BVG has to adjust the storage periods in detail to the absolute emergency
reduce agile; here too we are still in the process of testing. sample
Unfortunately, the photos for the ticket are currently only deleted after eight weeks,
to reissue a ticket in case you lose it
be able. A significant reduction in the deadline is conceivable here. Another point
is the requirement to upload a copy of the student ID card in order to
additional authorization for the student ticket. Here the BVG checks whether
it must keep the copies for an audit by the state or
whether these are deleted immediately after verification of authorization
be able. The other data collected, including the e-mail address of the person who

82

Chapter 4 Transport and Tourism 4 3 Why bicycles create motion profiles

 

ordered a ticket online are part of the collection and storage obligation
Documents.

However, there was also some criticism that the applications were exclusively online
line can be placed. It is not mandatory for the BVG
to also accept applications by non-electronic means. Since the
BVG had to adjust to a large number of new applications at short notice
the exclusively electronic application procedure in this situation perhaps
still been justifiable. In accordance with the obligation of the Berlin authorities,
The BVG, as an institution, should also be able to accept applications analogously
Right as a data protection-friendly alternative, however, will also be available again in the future
provide non-electronic application process.

The BVG continues to take out subscriptions for the free student ticket
ment contracts with parents, legal guardians or students
students themselves. Within the framework of these contracts, it is authorized to collect data
and must temporarily keep these documents for its accounting purposes. Included
However, each individual date must be checked for its necessity.
Technically, attention must be paid to current encryption standards.

4.3 Why Bicycles Motion Profiles

 

create

Since November 2017, there have been several thousand rental bikes from Mobike Germany
GmbH (Mobike) on the streets of Berlin. As well as other rental bicycles, rental scooters
or cars can be borrowed via an app. was viewed critically
above all that the Mobike app collects a lot of data that is processed on behalf of China
be worked.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

 

The Mobike app records the user's movement data while they
are looking for a bike with the app and continuously select
driving time as long as the app is running in the background. You can during the
driving time but also be closed; in this case no further

 

64 Section 4 (7) E-Government Act Berlin (EGovG Bln)

 

83

Movement data recorded. Aside from that, the bike shares everyone via GPS itself
four hours Mobike with his location. Linking these via GPS with
Shared location data of the bike with the data of the app does not take place.
Furthermore, Mobike collects a variety of device data from the smartphone such as the
Hardware model, the unique device identifier or optionally the unique
advertising identifier of a device.

In order to process the loan agreement, only the absolutely necessary
gen data are collected. In the location data, this is the respective start
and target point. Hereby the rental period as well as possible violations of the
Rules of Mobike for parking the bicycles are determined. Also the
Collection of device data is only permitted to the extent that the app
information needed to function. Additional data collection
Exercises are only permitted with a legally permissible reason or a voluntary one
User consent permitted. Mobike was able to do both in our test
not present. A complete capture of the route is neither to protect against
Theft still necessary for other reasons. Also the transmission of
unique device identifiers to improve the app is not allowed.

We have asked the company to clearly limit the collection of data
and set him a deadline of early 2020 to do so.

Mobike has the data collected from its parent company based in Beijing (China).
process on behalf of companies. Both companies have signed contracts
closed, which exceeds the scope of permissible processing according to the DS-
standard contractual clauses that are permissible under GMOs.65 This is legally required
formally not objectionable to the current state of knowledge, however, the
Standard contractual clauses just reviewed by the ECJ.66

 

 

 

65 These are contracts based on the standard contractual clauses according to the decision of
European Commission of February 5, 2010 on Standard Contractual Clauses for the
Transfer of personal data to processors in third countries
 
of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (2010/87/EU)

66 ECJ proceedings on Az C-311/18 (so-called Schrems II proceedings)

 

84

Chapter 4 Transport and Tourism 4 4 Sightseeing with Spam escort

 

On the basis of a contract between a person whose data
processed and the companies responsible for processing
only the data that is essential for the contract may be processed.
Data that is collected beyond this may only be used with legally verifiable
reasonable justification and taking into account the impact on the
informational self-determination of those affected.

4.4 Inspection accompanied by spam

 

Every day we receive many inquiries about the unauthorized sending of advertising e-
mails. These are, for example, complaints such as: "When registering
on an online platform also had to be included in the sending of promotional emails
be consented to" or "I am receiving unwanted emails to my email address
Newsletter, although never given consent to receive newsletters
became".

 

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

One example out of many: A family wanted for the forthcoming visit to Berlin
Tickets for a sight and a table reservation in the local
Book a restaurant. Here she was informed that with the registration
also a consent to the sending of messages from the provider, e.g. for
Newsletter or similar, submitted. The corresponding information text suggested consent
due to a corresponding presetting. However, this cannot
be considered sam because it involves a clear action (e.g. setting a
Hakens) and the voluntary nature of the declaration of consent is missing.

 

 

We tried to convince the provider, if only for reasons
of customer satisfaction to change the notice to effective consent -
finally the sight i. i.e. R. visited by tourists who, after their
Hardly interested in further information about the restaurant etc. on the return journey
should. However, that was not successful.

After initial reports to the contrary, the provider then made it clear that
that he does not send any advertising e-mails at all, only the customers
Ask customers to give him feedback on their visit. This assessment
Information requests would be sent after each visit.

85

This is to be assessed differently than, for example, sending a newsletter. The Zusen
tion of individual, simple customer satisfaction surveys as a follow-up to a
The order is made in the legitimate interest of the provider, which - in contrast
for pure advertising - the interest of customers not to receive such inquiries
hold, prevails. However, only on the condition that the customers
and customers receive a clear and conspicuous indication of this procedure
and can object at any time.

However, even for a request for an evaluation, customer data must not be endlessly
be saved. If the storage of an e-mail address for the purposes
for which it was collected or processed is no longer required
erased within a reasonable timeframe. For the implementation of customer
The satisfaction surveys would be at most a period of one month after
the visit to the respective sight can be justified. The obligation to
Deletion also means that those responsible must fulfill their obligation to
independently and continuously.

 

A deletion concept for old entries in the advertising list existed in this specific
th case obviously not; corresponding inquiries regarding the storage period
and deletion concept were only answered with the information that customers
Customers could object via email or unsubscribe link. So we check
the initiation of administrative offense proceedings.

In principle, e-mail advertising is not an inadmissible harassment
go to In the case of existing customers, the storing position in the
However, as part of the customer relationship, the e-mail address is used for further advertising
use if the following conditions are met:

• A company has related to the sale of a product or
 
the provision of a service the electronic postal address of the customer
or the customer received

 
• the company uses the address for direct marketing for its own similar

chemical goods or services,

86

Chapter 4 Transport and Tourism 4 4 Sightseeing with Spam escort

 

 
• the customer has not objected to the use and

 
• When collecting the address and each time it is used, it becomes clear and concise
pointed out that the use can be contradicted at any time
can.

The newsletter is only valid if all the requirements specified here are met.
ter shipping is legally authorized and does not require separate consent.

There are remedies and against the sending of unauthorized commercial e-mails
Ways. Should an objection not lead to success, the responsible
help regulator.

87

5 Youth and Education
 
 

  

including
 
media literacy
Film and photo recordings of children –
Uncertainty due to data protection
basic regulation

5.1
 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

In our last annual report we reported that with the
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) coming into effect in
look at the handling of personal data during production and
Publishing film and photo recordings of children is a special one
Uncertainty has arisen.67 Confusing press reports about the alleged
Necessity to redact all personal information about
the children still have this uncertainty for data protection reasons
strengthened.

Interest in the subject has not diminished this year either. still
we always receive numerous inquiries and complaints about the
data protection-compliant handling of film and photo recordings of children, in particular
special in day-care centers. However, the topic can also be
at schools or events in which children take part, e.g.
positions, expand as you like.

 

First of all, the production of film and photo recordings of cinema
and possibly also their publication for data protection reasons
is not inadmissible from the outset, but with the appropriate consent
declarations of consent can be designed in accordance with data protection regulations. explicit
Consent is required, however, since the production of photos and films

67 JB 2018, 5 4

 

88

Chapter 5 Youth and education including media literacy 5 1 Films and photographs of children

 

 

taken by children in day-care centers or schools for the
care of the children or school-related tasks is required and
with also cannot be covered by data protection regulations. This is how
speaking recordings do not rely on the fact that these are supposed to safeguard
the legitimate interests of the person responsible, i.e. the institution or the
school, are required. In this case, it is necessary to check whether the need for protection
of the data subject prevails, especially when it concerns her
a child.68 The GDPR expressly assumes the special protection
poverty of children and makes special demands in terms of
processing of their data. Therefore, regardless of the question of whether legitimate
interests of the person responsible in relation to the preparation and publication
of photos exist to assume that the interests of the affected
from the outset predominate if these are children.
del. Such recordings can only be made without exception on the basis of consent
support.

When designing corresponding declarations, the following requirements apply
note:

 

Consent to be obtained from parents must be voluntary and informed
take place. In concrete terms, this means that the parents are made transparent
must state for what purpose, as precisely described as possible, the recordings
are to be manufactured. Parental consent must explicitly refer to both the
production as well as the publication of the recordings on the homepage
or in another way (e.g. print publications, notices on the premises)
related, so that in the declaration between production and publication
should be distinguished. In practice, it makes sense for the different
technical purposes, e.g. taking photos on trips or events, showing
of film sequences at a parents' evening or use for the creation of
Teaching material, checkboxes to be provided in each case. In view of the
dangers to personal rights associated with the public
Possibility of global retrieval or the possibility of using search engines
to find and misuse, we recommend in our counseling
speak regularly, also clearly pointing this out in the declaration of consent

 

68 See Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR

 

89

point. It is also important to specify in the declaration of consent what
should be done with the recordings and how long they will be kept, where and how
the. It is also necessary to inform the parents in the declaration that
that you have the right to revoke your consent at any time
revoke for the future. This is according to our experience in practice
often forgotten, but is a necessary criterion for the effectiveness of a
declaration of consent. Finally, parents should be made aware
that the acceptance of your child in an institution does not depend on the granting of a
may be made dependent on a declaration of consent and neither can you
Disadvantages may arise if you later revoke your consent.

It is our concern to make the institutions aware of the uncertainty that has arisen in the
to take pictures and filming of children. That interest
the topic is still high, shows us the demand for our
Guidelines on data protection for image, sound and video recordings69,
which we together with the Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family
have issued. At the beginning of 2020 we will therefore, together with the Se-
natsverwaltung create a new edition of this guideline in which
we will take into account our first experiences with the GDPR.

5.2 Who is allowed to see what in the youth welfare office?

 

For several years we have been reporting on the introduction of the administrative
effective specialist procedure ISBJ70 as a central IT solution in the Berlin
genämter, with which the business processes in youth welfare are standardized
should be.71 This also includes defining how the
rights of access for employees to the necessary personal
gene data are to be technically restricted. In practice, this requires
an adaptation of long-established procedures to the new ones
circumstances.

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

69 https://www datenschutz-berlin de/fleadmin/user_upload/pdf/publikationen/informati-

 

onsmaterials/2018-BlnBDI_Flyer_Privacy_Content_Web pdf
Integrated software Berlin youth welfare

 
70
 
71 JB 2018, 5 3; JB 2017, 2 3; JB 2016, 5 4

90

Chapter 5 Youth and education including media competence 5 2 Who is allowed to see what in the youth welfare office?

We were informed that within a youth welfare office the
Specialist software limited access to individual organizational units, each
perform different tasks, was circumvented by the fact that help
feplans were now exchanged in paper form between the units.
These help plans contain all the specifications for educational needs,
the type of help to be granted and the form and success of the help
in each individual case.

Specifically, families in the youth welfare office are supported by the regional social pedagogical
schen Dienst (RSD) pedagogically supervised. Economic youth welfare (WJH)
is another organizational unit that takes care of the financing of the
th services. For this, both bodies need information about the
th families. Because of the differences in the perceived duties of these
both organizational units in the youth welfare office are the required information
however not congruent. Just the socio-educational care required
it, also very sensitive information about the problems in the families
know. In many cases, however, knowledge of this is not necessary in order to
to ensure that the aid is delivered. For this reason, the access options
ten to the personal data in the specialist software.

A transfer of the help plans in paper form by the RSD to the WJH is included
Data protection principles are just as incompatible as the transfer
in digital form, since not all information is available for the financing of the services,
necessary for the pedagogical work with the families.
We asked the youth welfare office to tell us how a data protection
procedure is to be established. The youth welfare office informed us that
that various measures would be examined. A form is developed
been made, by which it is ensured that only the really necessary data is
be passed on within the youth welfare office. It will also be checked whether they are not
required data could be blacked out in the assistance plans. We have
pointed out that it is crucial to ensure, organizationally,
that only the data actually required between the two organizations
units are exchanged. In addition to the master data that can be accessed in
the specialist software is granted, the WJH may only use those additional data
take note of the specific circumstances in each individual case for their
task completion is required.

91

We assume that the youth welfare office will establish a procedure
that meets the data protection requirements. The example
shows that the conversion of processes to IT solutions is very suitable
can be to back up long-established but inadmissible procedures
ask in order to develop a data protection-compliant state.

5.3 On the use of Office 365 in schools

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Again and again we receive inquiries from schools about admissibility
the use of Office 365. This is a product of the company
company Microsoft Corp., which usually the Office applications in a
provides a cloud-based variant. Since the question of the admissibility of the
sets not only in Berlin, but nationwide and also for other parts
of public administration is relevant, the data protection supervisory
Federal and state authorities have been using Microsoft for several years
Discussion about how the product can be used in compliance with data protection regulations.

The basic problem is that Microsoft due to the assignment by
an authority becomes aware of data that is also used for the company's own purposes
be used without any apparent legal basis for this
would. In addition to the content that the authority processes, the data
also asks for information about the users, whether they are employees
or students. This is done in particular via the
the software.

In principle, it is conceivable under data protection law to use cloud-based services
private providers can also be used in public areas such as schools.
However, which requirements must be met in order to meet the specifications of the
Compliance with the GDPR is the subject of discussions between the data protection
regulators and Microsoft.

 

A particular problem is that between those responsible and micro
soft to be concluded contracts for order processing by Microsoft
dar. Microsoft requires the clients that they
Further processing of your possibly personal data by Microsoft also for

92

Chapter 5 Youth and Education including Media Literacy 5 4 The School Data Ordinance
 

 

Allow for product improvement purposes. For a corresponding
carried by public authorities and a provision of personal
Data relating to employees or citizens is one
Legal basis not recognizable.

The German data protection supervisory authorities are currently in a
close coordination process on how to be achieved towards Microsoft
that such data use is omitted. Until then it stays
leave it up to those responsible to use Office 365 in such a way that the personal
Genetic data only without using the cloud in their own information
technology are saved.

We are well aware that the time with those responsible who deal with
the question of the admissibility of using Office 365 in their institutions
employ, urge. We are therefore intensively involved in the clarification process
of legal and technical issues to deal with schools, as well
the other actors in the public administration for legal certainty
worries. We assume that the conference of independent data
protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) promptly
suspensions for a permissible use of Office 365. It
will be up to Microsoft to do its part to meet these requirements
to wear.

5.4 The School Data Ordinance – A new major

 

construction site on the way to digitization

After we last year the Senate Department for Education, Youth
and family regarding the adaptation of the Berlin school law to the DS-
GVO,72 this year the amendment of the school data understanding
order on the agenda.

72 JB 2018, 5 1

 

93

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The School Data Ordinance, which dates back to 1994, was last passed in the year
Supplemented in 2010, but the main regulations are now 25 years old.
In the meantime, the actual circumstances, especially in
With regard to digitization, however, so significantly changed and further developed
that the old regulation no longer does justice to this development
becomes.

To reflect the demands of running a modern school,
especially against the background of the Berlin Digital Pact, there is
significant need for change. That's why we've had both since autumn 2018
recommended in writing, as well as in several discussions, a complete new
structuring of the regulation. This proposal is the responsible
Unfortunately, this has not yet been followed by the Senate administration, although this has
Lately elapsed time should have been possible without any problems.

The last draft available to us for an amendment from August 2019 is required
still a major revision. In addition to unclear regulations on
School statistics and data processing by the Senate administration within the framework of the
Career and study orientation were in particular regulations that
to react to the increasing digitization is insufficient.

In order to create legal certainty for those involved in the school sector and
grew” must be in a modern school data regulation
Framework conditions for the use of digital media are defined. As re-
In particular, the use of private devices by the
teaching staff and the student body, the use of social networks and of
Learning platforms, the requirements for the network installation and the
to name the development of messenger services. For this we have the Senate Administration
intensively advised. It is urgently necessary that the school data regulation
planning now goal-oriented and passed as quickly as possible and this
important topic is not delayed any longer.

In order to ensure data protection-compliant implementation of digitization in the
the senate administration must quickly take the necessary
Create a legal framework that schools can use as a guide
can ren.

94

Chapter 5 Youth and education including media competence 5 5 Research with the files of the youth welfare offices - possibilities and limits

 

 

5.5 Research with the files of the youth welfare offices –
 

 

 

possibilities and limits

In the past year we have the Senate Department for Education, Youth and
Advised the family several times as to whether and under what conditions they should apply
by researchers upon inspection of files or upon transmission of individual files
youth welfare offices can grant.

The files of the youth welfare offices are popular objects for scientific research
ing. However, it should not be forgotten that these files
contain particularly sensitive social data of the affected families. One
The transmission of social data to third parties is therefore, with good reason, subject to strict
suspensions linked.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Whether youth welfare offices use the social data they process for research purposes
may transmit to third parties, regulates the Social Code (SGB).73 The strict
Prerequisites provide that the youth welfare offices - and other social services
carriers – are not allowed to decide for themselves whether social data is passed on to researchers
to spend Rather, because of the special need for protection, the legislature
activity of social data, an approval requirement is provided. That's what it takes
prior to the transmission of such data, always obtain approval from the highest level
Federal or state authority responsible for the area from which the data comes
is responsible.74 Is responsible for research in the field of child and youth welfare in Berlin
this is the Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family.

The first requirement for approval is that it is not “any”
research project, but a concrete project that refers to the
social benefits area.75 Furthermore, there is a transmission of social data
only be considered if they are necessary for the implementation of the
research project are actually necessary, i.e. unavoidable. Are

 

73 See Section 75 SGB X
74 Section 75 (4) SGB X
75 In addition, a specific project of the scientific professional

 
 
 

and labor market research, § 75 Para. 1 Sentence 1 No. 1 SGB X

95



If these "entrance requirements" are met, it is also fundamentally necessary to
consent of the data subjects to the transmission of their social data. Allen
if in exceptional cases, namely when obtaining consent
is unreasonable (e.g. because the purpose of the research project has been frustrated
the would), a transmission may also be possible without the data subjects
be asked beforehand.76 In these cases, the SGB sees a further protective mechanism
nism, however, requires a weighing of interests. A transmission without consent is
therefore only possible if the legitimate interests of those affected
persons are either not affected at all or a consideration
tion shows that the public interest in research outweighs the interest of the
one person in the secrecy far outweighs.

The Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family has
research projects asked for advice. In a project in which it is about
research on domestic violence in families with children, we have
view expressed by the Senate administration towards the researchers,
that in the specific case obtaining the consent of the persons concerned
is reasonable and therefore unavoidable, confirmed and their concrete form
accompanied by instructions.

In another project that the Senate administration itself communicated to the
verity Hildesheim commissioned and in which it is also in the public
Public much-noticed review of the role of the Senate administration in the
Accommodation of young people with pedophile men as part of the so-called
"Kentler experiments", we have the Senate administration
the files prior to transmission to the researchers
to anonymize, since obtaining the consent of data subjects
and third parties, whose data were also contained in the files, practically none
would have been feasible.

We can see the great interest in inspecting youth welfare files for
Understand research purposes. Although a transmission of social
data from youth welfare offices for research purposes are not used from the outset.

 

 

76 That obtaining consent sometimes involves considerable effort
may be connected does not, however, lead to unreasonableness from the outset

96

Chapter 5 Youth and education including media literacy 5 6 Data protection and media literacy

 

is closed, the strict requirements of the SGB must be observed. offered
in view of the special sensitivity of the data contained in the youth welfare files
data often requires complicated balancing of the right to
informational self-determination of the affected families and the
research interests of scientists. The practice
shows that taking advantage of our advice as early as possible
fen to achieve appropriate results.

5.6 Privacy and Media Literacy

 

Since the end of 2016, we have been developing offers for children to help them protect theirs
to sensitize one's own data in the rapidly digitizing world.77 In
This year we have further optimized our offers for children and
In particular, our children's website www.data-kids.de has been fundamentally revised
and redesigned. We have also started conducting project days in schools
to try out the developed materials with the elementary school children
try to get feedback from our target group and in this way
to gain knowledge for the further development of our offers.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Recent studies show that even children of primary school age regularly
use git media. The traces they leave on the Internet and on the
left behind by the devices, they are often not even aware of. Lots of kids do
first experiences with smartphones and tablets, even before they read fluently and
can write. Apps and offers are often used that are by no means
are designed to comply with data protection regulations.

It is particularly important to us to sensitize the children as early as possible
and to teach them data protection competence. With the complete redesign
our children's website www.data-kids.de, it was our goal to create games and fun
to connect with learning. In addition to the already from the previous offer
well-known robot family, which teaches children all about technology and
accompanied by self-protection, we have animal figures in a special
developed its appealing manga style. The animals mediate in the children's encyclopedia

 

77 JB 2017, 6 6; JB 2018, 5 5

 

97

the most important terms related to the topic of data protection with interactive maps,
Explanatory videos and lots of colorful graphics. In addition to the offers for children, such as
Games and craft materials, we also want parents and teachers useful
provide offers. Therefore, in addition to an extensive link
collection e.g. also workbooks available, which can be downloaded and stored with us
can also be obtained free of charge in paper form.

 

We were particularly pleased that this year we launched our children's website
have been nominated for the German children's software prize TOMMI. For this
Prize meets a jury of experts from the fields of media and media education
and educational sciences a selection from the submitted software
products, such as games or apps. She gives this to a children's jury for the final
towards voting. We have the finals of this year's competition
reached. We were certified that our offer www.data-kids.de was the first
Offer of its kind aimed at children of primary school age for data protection
sensitized. The nomination shows us that we are on the right track
to have.

 

For the year 2020 we have decided to continuously expand our range of
to develop. In addition to new content and materials for our children's web
page we will evaluate the projects carried out at the schools and
Develop concepts on how these can be better established in order to
to reach as many schools as possible. However, a focus is also
werkarbeit lie in order to work with other actors from the media-pedagogical
to enter into cooperations in the state of Berlin and thus the mediation of
Data protection competence to be as broad as possible.

98

Chapter 5 Youth and education including media literacy 6 1 Health apps with insufficient protection

 

 
6 health and care
6.1 Health apps with insufficient
 
 

Protection

The development of health apps is one of the main areas of activity
digital health economy in Berlin. Since such apps with sensitive data
ten, it is important that the processing also takes place in the cloud systems,
behind the apps runs safely. In an example we have
seen how successful the operators are.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Those who shy away from going to the doctor's office will find a number of support
offered online, often in the form of apps for smartphones. The federal
government is driving the supply of digital health services and has
in particular with the Digital Supply Act (DVG) the legal prerequisites
stipulations for the financing of these services by the statutory health
insurance created.

Health apps are used for counseling and therapeutic purposes
puts. In both cases, they can only work if the users have medical
Enter niche data in them or send this data to the operators in another way
submit the offers. This results in high protection requirements
of confidentiality and integrity of the data processed by the operators. Egg-
Some of the offers are also to be classified as medical devices and are subject to
thus particularly high demands on reliability.

The small or medium-sized companies founded as start-ups, which
operate offers, often do not use their own computing technology, but
Cloud offerings from major providers. These make the networks available,
drive the software and the databases and at the same time also offer security
functions. Application development is also largely based on external
operated services. The software is created from these development environments
largely automatically transferred to the IT systems with which the user
data are processed.

99



The conventional measures to ensure information
operational safety only to a limited extent. For ensuring security comes
no hardware and software that has been checked carefully and over a long period of time is used,
which is rarely revised or replaced. There are no more cable connections
ments that determine which devices can be addressed from the Internet and thus
are vulnerable, but easily changeable software settings. Therefore
The security measures have been adapted to the new dynamic environment
will.

In addition, new risks arise that are inherent in the nature of extensive claims
use of cloud services. Your own security measures must
with which the cloud providers are intertwined in such a way that the same security
level of security, as is the case with an operation based on its own information technology
uniform control would be possible. This also applies to the control over the
Access to individual systems and services. To prove that a human
or software for using services in the cloud and setting
settings, sequences of letters to be kept secret,
Digits and other characters, so-called access keys, are used. whoever
individual possesses these keys, has power over parts of the information technology
nik of the company, possibly even across the entire system. goes the
Losing control of the keys opens the door to misuse.

We were interested in the extent to which companies with the challenges ad-
äquat bypass, resulting from their decision, completely in the cloud
switch. Data protection law obliges you to notify the supervisory authorities
to prove that they respect the confidentiality and integrity of the data entrusted to them
can guarantee.

The result of our audit of a company with a
impressively large number of users was not satisfactory. It was
shown to us that a whole series of useful individual measures
were taken. However, these did not fit into an overall concept
together, with which the risks would have been reduced to an adequate level
be able. The company's perspective was too limited to common methods
methods for cyber attacks to which its information technology is exposed. Not
on the other hand, e.g. the possible tapping of access information

 

100

Chapter 6 Health and Care 6 1 Health apps with insufficient protection

information on the developers’ computers and other
other storage locations or the possible manipulation of data that the services
be handed over for processing, or the derivation of security-critical
cal information from the observable behavior of the services and systems.
However, the complete consideration of possible hazards is
of far-reaching consequences, because an incomplete risk
analysis usually also includes an incomplete range of security measures
men.

Where necessary, we will use our remedial powers to
checked companies for a risk-based design of their service
move. At the same time, within the scope of our capacities, we will
tronic health services into our testing program.
Some risks are inherent in using eHealth services
unavoidable because many private individuals do not use smartphones
equipped to guarantee an adequate level of security. Besides that
However, every person can expect that when processing their health
data, whether with the service providers, the IT infrastructure
ture in the healthcare system, the service providers and also in the private sector
a uniformly high level for non-physician providers of healthcare services
level of security is provided.

Whoever offers electronic health services is a reliable
reliable protection of confidentiality and integrity of the processed data
obliges. If new approaches - e.g. the continuous development
development and operation in the cloud - to provide the services
used for a large number of people is in the data protection
beforehand, a thorough analysis of the
identify associated risks and determine countermeasures
conducive.

101

6.2 Open Medical Records at the Hospital

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

We checked whether the two major hospital operators in Berlin,
the Charité and the Vivantes Netzwerk für Gesundheit GmbH, with saved
information on the treatment of patients who have already been discharged
as required by law, in particular whether they have the right to
accessed the data no later than one year after the completion of the treatment lock
and delete them after the retention period has expired.

Hospitals have the obligation to document medical treatments
mention. Here, quite legitimately, large amounts of sensitive data are stored
chert These must last for a legally prescribed period of between ten
and retained for thirty years. Within this period, additional
Access to the data is only possible after the respective treatment has been completed
if there is a special need for it. Accordingly, they must
Access authorizations are severely restricted during this period. To
Expiry of the deadlines, however, further storage is only permitted
sig if there is a specific reason for it.

In both hospitals examined, we found that these requirements
requirements are not met. Patient data also remained in the Charité
Discharge and billing of the treatment in the long term in access to the majority
ing majority of employees, which is a gross violation of the law
represents specifications. Vivantes restricted access much more. the
right from the start, the options available were based on the needs of the treatment
aligned. In addition, after the end of treatment, they were in most
cases limited in time. However, this restriction did not apply consistently and
came too late in some cases.

Confronted with the legal requirement, both houses immediately took
measures were taken to eliminate the deficits. The Charité laid an ambitious
ned plan with measures to upgrade or replace the tested ones
technical systems and setting up time-defined access restrictions
known. Just a few months after the exam, she was able to report that
in one of the tested systems the protection of patient data against an un-

102

Chapter 6 Health and Care 6 3 Scheduling with Multiple Unknowns?

 

justified access now corresponds to the legal requirements. vivid
also acted quickly and presented a plan with which the existing
Access options should be adjusted and gaps closed.

In the case of data from outpatient treatment, we checked whether they were after expiration
be deleted after the retention period of ten years.78
we found deficits in both houses. These must now be
fetching deletion and the establishment of regular deletion routines
will. The hospitals are at liberty to provide patients,
who wish to do so, also to offer longer storage.

In the following, we will closely work together to rectify the deficiencies at Charité and Vivantes.
and, should unexpectedly unacceptable delays arise, by
exercise our remedial powers.

Hospitals must ensure that the data of patients
patients who have already been released, only a narrowly defined personal
circle available for well-defined purposes and after the end
be deleted after the retention period.

6.3 Termination with multiple unknowns?

 

Improving the appointment management of medical practices can improve
serve to improve health care and is therefore to be welcomed. However is
it is imperative that the processing of patient data is carried out for the
patients remains transparent and additional services such as
Min reminders via SMS or email, only with the consent of the patient
and patients take place.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

In 2019, we received repeated complaints from citizens who
were reminded of doctor’s appointments via SMS or email without them being included

 

78 Data from inpatient treatment, on the other hand, must generally be recorded for thirty years.
maintain; however, none of the systems examined included data from treatments that
so far behind

103

had consented. The sender of this message was a Berlin company that
the appointment reminder for patients as a service provider for medical
practices.

The appointment reminder was in a specific individual case as an additional
service designed for the doctor, which, in addition to taking over the entire
th appointment management was offered. Only by getting the memory
were those affected referred to the appointment management outsourced by the doctor and the
underlying service provider carefully.

The desired goal of the additional appointment reminders is to optimize the
workflows in practice. The reminders are intended to count the number of appointments
which are canceled because the patients forget an appointment,
be reduced.

In addition, the company offers by knowing the times that are still free
the doctors the patients the opportunity to
a website to book appointments directly.

Patients who themselves have a user account on the Internet
have a page, select the reminder function actively. However, if not
is the case, an appointment is arranged by telephone or directly in the practice
and the practice staff does not draw attention to the reminder function,
the patients are surprised by such news.
Such an appointment reminder system is particularly critical, especially
half because it can contain data that is very sensitive. One can
Appointment reminders for doctors specializing in
point out the state of health of the patient.

A legally permissible form of outsourced appointment management
of medical practices is in principle quite possible. However, this presupposes
that the doctors contact the respective service providers as part of the
obligation to secrecy. If this is fulfilled, a
Service providers then themselves subject to the statutory duty of confidentiality.79

79 See Section 203(4) of the Criminal Code (StGB)

 

104

Chapter 6 Health and care 6 4 Quality assurance at the Berlin Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians

 

 

According to the DS-GVO, a doctor's practice may use the data of patients
Patients are processed to fulfill the respective treatment contract
are required.80 For appointment processing that goes beyond appointment management
however, the consent of the patient is required
ducks, since the reminder of the appointment does not carry out the treatment
itself is necessary and insofar not due to a legal processing
authority can take place. Responsible for obtaining this consent
is the place where the appointment is made. Are appointments about the
booked on the website of the service provider, the latter must ask the user for consent
ask for a loan. If the appointment is made by the staff of the doctor's office,
the practices responsible for it. However, service providers from medical practices are available
in the obligation to inform the practices about the requirement for consent.

When doctors hire a service provider with appointment management for
commission their practice, they must give this to their patients
make them transparent to each other. Especially when it comes to health data
It is particularly important that those affected are aware of the bodies through which
their data will be processed. Providers of such services should
Compliance with their legal obligations is so easy for doctors
do as possible. This also includes being unequivocal on this
obligations are pointed out.

6.4 Resolution of an old dispute? quality

 

security at the statutory health insurance
Association Berlin

In the last annual report we have the verdict of the regional social court
Berlin-Brandenburg on the quality assurance process of panel doctors
Vereinigung Berlin (KV) reported.81 Through this we became in our legal
opinion confirms that quality assurance by the KV patient data
data may only be collected in pseudonymised form.

80 See Art 6 Para 1 lit b i V m Art 9 Para 2 lit h GDPR
81 JB 2018, 6 1

 
 

105

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 



With effect from July 1, 2019, the Federal Joint Committee (GBA)
Due to its directives resulting from the Social Security Code (SGB)
petenz82 the "Quality assessment guideline for contract medical care"
ben and recast. The guideline of the GBA is for the KV as well as for
Statutory law binding on insured persons and contract doctors. the
Guideline of the GBA now explicitly provides for the submission of treatment
mentations in non-pseudonymized form in all cases of quality assurance
planning.

This change in the legal starting point means that we have to
KV the implementation of quality assurance with identifying data now
had to assess as admissible.

However, we have considerable doubts as to whether the issued directive is subject to a judicial
would stand up to scrutiny. This is how the guideline authorization of the
 
§ 299 SGB V expressly stipulates that the data collection is usually based on a
sample of the affected patients is limited and the insured
Data related to data are pseudonymised. Only in exceptional cases
if, for example, the correctness of the treatment documentation is the subject of the
quality check, identifying data may be collected.

The GBA has stipulated in the guideline that in all quality tests for which
the policy applies, the accuracy of the treatment documentation
is the subject of the examination.

With this determination, the rule-exception-specified in § 299 SGB V
relationship is not only reversed, but even ignored, since it is envisaged that in all
collect identifying data from patients in such cases.

By adapting the guidelines for quality assurance by the GBA
a regulation was made that applies to both the KV and the affected
ven doctors is binding. To what extent this guideline
would stand up to judicial scrutiny is very doubtful, given that by

82 See § 299 SGB V

 

106

Chapter 6 Health and care 6 5 Nothing going on without moss? – The right to a copy of the medical record

 

the stipulation laid down by the federal legislature that the data collection “in the
rule" with pseudonymised data, through the directive um-
will go.

6.5 Nothing going on without moss? – The claim to

 

a copy of the patient file

In the past year we have been asked by doctors several times
have been confronted with whether they want patients who have a copy of their patient
require duck files, even after the GDPR has come into effect
may charge for the costs incurred.

Background: The Civil Code has been clearing since 2013
(BGB) patients explicitly have the right to a copy on request
to receive their medical records. The prerequisite is that they pay the costs for this
wear.83 The professional regulations also provide that doctors are
are only obliged to issue copies if they bear the costs
be reimbursed.84 In other words: at least in the past, the
Legal position clear.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

But how has it been since May 25, 2018? The regulations in the BGB and
in the professional order have not changed. With Art. 15 Para. 3 GDPR
however, a provision has been added that has a similar regulatory content
having. Specifically, this regulation provides that every person responsible - and
Of course, this also includes doctors – the people affected
provide a copy of their personal data upon request
got to. However, this provision contradicts the German Civil Code: a claim
the DS-GVO grants the person responsible for an appropriate fee
expressly only for "all further copies" - the first copy, however, is
always given free of charge.

83 § 630g paragraph 2 sentence 2 BGB
84 § 10 paragraph 2 sentence 2 professional regulations of the Berlin Medical Association

 
 

107

So how do you deal with this contradiction?
Our answer: European law takes precedence over German law. the cost
In any case, the patient's obligation to bear the
be preserved when the patient first receives a copy
request their personal data.

Under certain conditions, the GDPR generally allows
Restriction of the rights of data subjects, including the right to information or
the “right to copy” counts, by member state legislation. the
However, due to the social
overriding economic interests and at the same time proportionate
be.85 However, these prerequisites are not present here. In particular, the
Obligation to bear costs according to the BGB is not a necessary measure for protection
of the rights and freedoms of doctors. That the fulfillment of
enforcing rights for those responsible sometimes also entails costs, is a thing in itself
 
no reason to assume that their rights have been violated.86

 

The fact that the GDPR does not smoothly integrate into the member state
inserts legal law and legal uncertainties can sometimes arise,
not surprising. Ultimately, however, it is up to the federal legislature to
to ensure harmony again by adapting the BGB. until
then doctors would be well advised not to hand over the pa-
A copy of the patient file when the patient first requests it
not to be made dependent on the assumption of costs.

6.6
 

Informed consent for research
plan – not a discontinued model!

In the field of research, in our consulting practice, we will always
who is confronted with declarations of consent, which are made to the best of our knowledge and
were written conscientiously, but did not meet the requirements of an internal

 

85 Article 23 (1) GDPR
86 Art. 15 Para. 4 DS-GVO can be used to restrict the restriction of Section 630g Para. 2 Sentence 2 BGB

 
 

therefore not supported - this provision is not about
an opening clause for the member state legislature

108

Chapter 6 Health and Care 6 6 Informed Consent for Research Projects – Not a Discontinued Model!

 

form consent. It should be noted that the specific
purposes, consent obtained in the research area even after effective
sam the DS-GVO will continue to be the norm.

The processing of personal data is based on a
Consent of the persons concerned is only possible if this declaration
met strict requirements. It must be voluntary and - based on a specific
voted case - in an informed manner.87 In addition
the persons concerned must be informed that they can revoke their consent
can currently be revoked and that the revocation violates the legality of
no data processing took place on the basis of the consent until the revocation
is touched.88 Is intended to include special categories of personal
to process data (e.g. health data), the declaration must express
may also refer to this information.89 Compliance with the written form, on the other hand
is not (any longer) required by law. An unequivocal one is enough
Expression of will in the form of a clearly confirming action (e.g. active
click on the "Agree" button). Of course, the written form remains
casual and possibly also useful.

 

 

 

On the one hand, to ensure that the persons concerned are informed
deliver and on the other hand not to deliver the actual declaration of consent
freight, it has proven itself in practice in research projects to
affected persons in addition to the actual declaration of consent
to provide separate information text. The people concerned
should be written in clear and simple language90 about the respective research
project and the associated data processing are explained. So
should they be able to make decisions in the first place?
whether they agree to the intended processing of their personal data
are understood. This information is therefore essential for the effectiveness of a
Consent.

87 Art 4 No. 11 GDPR
88 Art 7 Para 3 GDPR
89 Art 9 Para 2 lit a GDPR
90 See EG 42 GDPR

 
 
 
 

109

The general information requirements91 from the
DS-GVO, which basically affect every responsible person - independently
whether this personal data is based on consent or
processed by law. These mandatory disclosures overlap
in terms of content with the information that is required to
mated consent” (e.g. indication of the person responsible and
the purposes of data processing). However, they are not entirely congruent.
Our experience shows that this distinction often increases in practice
ambiguities in the demarcation.

 

But what exactly is the problem in practice? – It is possible from our experience
essentially two aspects:

On the one hand, we have to state again and again that the explanations presented to us
ments or information letters do not do the intended data processing
reflect sufficiently or even incorrectly. A “classic” is about here
the incorrect indication that the processing is "anonymous", although it is actually one
Processing takes place in pseudonymised and therefore personal form92.
On the other hand, it is always the language used itself
is often not taken into account by those responsible for the project, to which target
group the information is aimed at. For example, technical terms do not belong in one
information letter. These are easy to formulate and generally understandable.
and should also be limited to a reasonable length.

If these requirements are not observed, the study participants can
and participants also do not have a comprehensive picture of the scope of their declaration
make. This is at the expense of informational self-determination.

Departing from the principle of obtaining consent for specific purposes
Even after the GDPR has come into effect, there is still no indication of this. That is
scientific research has made simplifications in many areas of the GDPR

 
 

91 See Art 13, 14 GDPR
92 This is the case, for example, if – as is often the case – the names of the participants
mer can be replaced by an identification number and a list containing the assignment
 
between names and numbers still exists

 

110

Chapter 6 Health and Care 6 6 Informed Consent for Research Projects – Not a Discontinued Model!

 

genes,93 but that doesn’t mean that researchers will no longer be able to
specific purposes of data processing must be specified if they
ask participants for their consent. The GDPR points out in its
Recitals94 indicate that data subjects may be allowed to do so
should, their consent for "certain areas of scientific research"
admit. The Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
The federal and state governments (DSK) have now made it clear that only in individual
case and only if the concrete design of the research project
foreseeable until the time of data collection a complete purpose
absolutely does not allow the explanation to be a little more "open" on this point
or "broader".95 However, one of the prerequisites is that specific
cal security measures are observed.96
 

 

Informed consent is still the norm. A departure from
the principle of clear purpose in the field of scientific
Even in times of the GDPR, research is only possible in rare individual cases
and only possible if concrete compensatory measures are planned
are.

 

93 For example, the legislator has given the member states the
Possibility granted to exercise the rights of data subjects under certain conditions
restrict if data processing for scientific research purposes
The German legislature has done so with Section 27 (2) of the Federal Data Protection Act
(BDSG) use is also made of Art. 14 Para. 5 lit b DS-GVO, for example, a
Statutory possibility of exemption from the information obligations in the case of so-called "third-party
gene"

94 EC 33 GDPR
95 See decision of the 97 DSK on the interpretation of the term "certain areas

 
 

scientific research" in recital 33 of the GDPR of April 3, 2019

 

96 E.g. Use of a usage regulation that can be viewed by those who consent
Direction of an internet presence through which the study participants
be informed about current and future studies

111

7
 

integration, social and
 
work

7.1 Complaints office for refugees

 

People – without data protection?

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

As part of consultations with the State Office for Refugee Affairs
(LAF) informed us that the Senate Department for Integrity
ration, work and social plan, a complaints office independent of the LAF
to create for refugees who have "low-threshold" complaints about
the facilities and operations related to the accommodation
should accept. In view of the extensive
The LAF asked us to process personal data about the refugees
for advice on data protection law.

The plan is, in addition to the already existing authority and residential
internal complaints system to create an additional complaints office
intended to be operated independently outside of shelters and government agencies
neutral and low-threshold contact point for those affected. On the one hand, this
Complaints office offer consultation hours and on the other hand through so-called integra
tion guides offer advice directly in the facilities.

There are still essential questions about the establishment and, in particular, about the legal nature
of the planned complaints office were open, we initially put the LAF on the
legal problems of the processing of personal data by private
informed third parties in the context of the performance of state tasks and
these concerns also at management level towards the Senator for Labour,
integration and social issues. In particular, we have problematized that
quality assurance is a state task, which is also
can only be carried out by a state body such as the LAF. the
The task cannot simply be assigned to a private third party like the one planned
Complaints office can be transferred. We have asked several times for us
further information on the legal classification of the complaints office

112

Chapter 7 Integration, social affairs and work 7 1 Complaints office for refugees – without data protection?

 

 

to let men. Unfortunately, we have the requested information from the Senate
administration but not get. After several months, it came in the fall
for a personal discussion on a technical level with the participation of the co-
Ordinance office for refugee management of the Senate Department and the LAF.

We made it clear that we would support the Senate Administration
the approach followed when setting up the complaints office, the inhibition threshold for
the residents of the facilities to deal with a complaint
to turn to a state institution, to disparage as much as possible, very much
can understand well. We were also able to
tion of the complaints office related data protection difficulties
clarify. However, on the part of the Senate administration, we were
informed that the creation of an authority-independent complaints office
is intended, without the existing legal instructions and
touching on responsibilities. It is therefore not planned at the moment, the tasks
of the complaints office to be enshrined in law. The use of the complaints office
the Senate administration has been involved in a pilot project in ours since 2018
authority was not involved, tested. The knowledge gained from this
tures should be used in 2020 for the complaints office now
to establish permanently.

We have explained that in the absence of a statutory assignment of tasks for the
Complaints office also the processing of personal data of the residents
residents cannot rely on data protection regulations,
but only on consent. However, since a declaration of consent is only
is effective if all data processing processes are precisely
are mentioned, a variety of practical problems arise.

In particular, practical problems are to be expected when feedback
gene from a statutory complaints procedure, e.g. at the LAF
or in connection with objection proceedings at the district social
offices to which independent complaints bodies are to be addressed. in case of
about third parties, e.g. with regard to any assaults by roommates
or roommates or the staff of the facilities or by security
heitsdienste, their data could not be based on the consent of the
complainants are processed. The independent complaints body

 

113

could then not take action, but would have to report to the state authorities
point.

We pointed this out and recommended the tasks of the complaints office
to be enshrined in law in the future. have concrete suggestions
we also submitted. We discussed this intensively with those involved.

Since there is political will to also use the complaints office for
difficult to open to homeless people should be checked at an early stage,
how a legal anchoring of this position could be implemented. the consent
From our point of view, a solution should only be taken in view of the great time pressure
considered as an interim solution for the start of the complaints office
will.

The Senate Department for Integration, Labor and Social Affairs and the LAF will
the planned tasks of the independent complaints office based on the
review the aspects discussed. We assume that the still to be
winding declarations of consent are submitted for review. The
opportunity shows that if our authority is involved at an early stage,
data protection requirements for setting up the complaints
could have been taken into account from the outset without valuable
full time would have elapsed. We assume, however, that the started
constructive exchange is continued and the establishment of the
continue to support the difficult point in an advisory capacity.

7.2
 

Census of homeless people in
Berlin – “Night of Solidarity”

 

At the beginning of the year, the Senate Department for Integration, Labor and Social
ziales for advice on a project to count living
clueless people approach us. From the documents sent to us
the specific course of the project was not clear, we
natsverwaltung initially offered discussions on a technical level in order to open
To clarify questions and to accompany the project from the beginning. As part of a

114

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Chapter 7 Integration, social affairs and work 7 2 Count of homeless people in Berlin - "Night of Solidarity"

 

 

At the meeting in May we discussed the data protection aspects of the project
discussed and asked to consider our suggestions in further project planning
considerate and promptly provide us with the necessary information for our
lay to forward. Following this conversation, we were given the necessary
Unfortunately, no data protection concept was presented. Only in October and after
the Senate administration had set up a completely new project group
contacted us with a request to meet again. After these initial difficulties
However, the data protection aspects to be taken into account could then cause problems
 
technical level can be discussed constructively.

Since the Berlin Senate only estimates the current number of
street people are available, these should in future regularly with the help of
volunteers in the entire city area are counted in one night.
A first count is planned for the night of January 29th to 30th, 2020.
The background to the census is that homeless people benefit from the existing aid
system have so far only been insufficiently achieved. Based on the determined
In the event of emergencies, qualified planning of the offers of help for the homeless should be carried out
people are enabled.

In addition to the count, the Senate Department wants those on the street
people encountered also collect data. It is planned that the residential
loose people from the helpers involved in the count
receive a questionnaire in their native language.
Participation should be voluntary. Based on the questionnaire, the residential
information on gender, age, nationality,
asked about the duration of the homelessness and, if applicable, about the marital status. This
so-called survey characteristics are - as far as possible - broadly defined or in
divided into categories. When specifying the age, the answer options should
ties to age groups (e.g. "21 to under 25") and in the case of nationality to the
Categories "German", "other EU" and "other" be limited. names and
Dates of birth are not requested.

 

The mere counting of homeless people on the street is data protection law-
This is not a problem, since no personal data is processed here
will. When processing the data from the questionnaire, the Senate
administration, however, ensure that identification of the individual

115

asked people is not possible afterwards. Although this is already through
makes it difficult for neither name nor date of birth to be processed. But also
the other information must not be used to draw any conclusions about the respective residential
enable clueless people. Furthermore, the persons questioned must later
testing prior to the survey about the associated data processing
ments and that participation is voluntary.

The planned project of census and survey of homeless people
in Berlin is a concern of the Senate that is worth supporting with regard to the
Improvement of the personal situation of the persons concerned and
Combating homelessness in Berlin. Nevertheless, data protection
legal aspects are taken into account during implementation. We will
continue to accompany the project to ensure that the personal
related data - insofar as their collection is necessary at all - data
be processed in a protective manner.

7.3 New ID - Old Photo

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

A citizen told us that she had contacted the State Office for Health and
ziales (LAGeSo) applied for the issuance of a severely handicapped pass
and sent a current passport photo. Then the LAGeSo gave her one
Severely handicapped pass sent, which instead of the current passport photo of the
Citizen with a 25-year-old photo of her was issued.

It turned out that it was a passport photo that the
Gerin had submitted to the pension office a few decades earlier to get her
to exchange an old GDR severely handicapped ID card. We tried that
Clarify the matter with the LAGeSo. As a result, it must be here
have acted around an unusual individual case, in which the old photograph
probably since the 1990s in the severely disabled case of the citizen in the
chiv "slumbered". Apparently, when the new ID card was issued, it wasn't
noticed that the photo was no longer up-to-date.

As part of the examination of the individual case, we were able to determine that a
recurrence of such a case is unlikely. At the exhibition of

116

Chapter 7 Integration, social affairs and work 7 4 Do health insurance cards belong in the social security office file?

 

 

Severely handicapped ID cards, the photos will be sent immediately after notification
digitized, the photo will then be destroyed immediately. The digitized data
tei is regularly automatically deleted after four weeks.

The LAGeSo took the matter as an opportunity to contact us
to coordinate a procedure that, in the sense of customer orientation, includes written
With the consent of the applicant, the storage of the photo for the
Duration of ten years provides for the processing time at the issuance
of a new or lost ID card. Versus
the declaration of consent, there are no data protection concerns
ken, so that we contribute from a normally data protection-compliant procedure
the issuance of severely handicapped ID cards.

7.4 Do health insurance cards belong in the
 

 

 
social security record?

A citizen complained to us about the fact that the social welfare office from him at the
Applying for social security benefits Copies of his identity card
and the electronic health card from his health insurance company
would have.

The social welfare office admitted the facts and informed us that the presentation of the
son ID was necessary for identity verification. The template of
electronic health card from the health insurance company was required in order to
Check health insurance information. The request
the copies served the purpose of a personal visit to the social welfare office
to avoid.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

In accordance with data protection law, the social welfare office is entitled to
to demand the presentation of an identity card. In any case, this applies
when benefits are requested for the first time. Not covered by this power
is, however, the storage of the documents in the service file. Because after
The following identity verification is the identity card to check the claim
not relevant anymore.

117

The need to present the electronic health card of the health
checkout we could not understand. It is sufficient if the name of the
Health insurance and the insurance number are named in the application form
the. In the specific case, the complainant received a disability
pension, so it was to be assumed anyway that the contributions for his social
insurances are paid directly by the pension provider and insofar as one
Knowledge of the data on health insurance would hardly have been necessary
should.

We have informed the social welfare office about our legal assessment and this
requested to establish a data protection-compliant procedure for dealing with personnel
documents and electronic health cards. the social
office has assured us that the procedures involved in receiving the application and
adapt to further processing according to our specifications.

118

Chapter 7 Integration, social affairs and work 8 1 Extent of information requests from employees
 

 

 
8 Employee data protection
8.1 Scope of the request for information from
 
 

employees
 

The complainant was co-managing director of a Berlin company
men. After her departure, she asked the company to provide her with information
about their personal data. This particularly affected her
Emails (including those sent after she left) since they are her
E-mail address also used for private purposes. The company also post
no information for a quarter of a year.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

We have identified a violation at the company. The responsible
che is legally obliged to inform the data subject within one
month after receipt of an application certain information is available
97 The company did not comply with this obligation to provide information in good time
after. However, the right to information does not grant a comprehensive right to
Release of all communications sent via a company’s email system
company.

A complete release of all emails from the company's system,
in which the complainant's name appears is for that reason alone
not possible because the right to issue a copy of the data98 by the rights
and freedoms of other persons is restricted.99 In the
Numerous other people showed up for the email communication requested
(in particular other employees of the company and external parties) so that
extensive conclusions about personal data of third parties are possible here
would have been, in which the complainant also had no concrete interest
eat had presented. Furthermore, with a comprehensive publication
knowledge of internal processes, company secrets and

97 Art 15 para 1 and Art 12 para 3 sentence 1 GDPR
98 Article 15 (3) GDPR
99 Art 15 Para 4 GDPR

 
 
 

119

Know-how of the company or of companies affiliated with it
been bound. This conflicted with legitimate corporate interests.

As a result, the data from conversations that the complainant
to the permitted extent for private purposes, to her
ben. However, the purely business-related correspondence was due to the
termination of their employment relationship is not a legitimate interest of the
defuhrin (more) to accept.

Former employees are fundamentally entitled to have their private
to receive personal emails.

8.2 Deletion of data after the end of the

 

employment relationship
 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

One employee had a termination agreement with her employer
termination of employment. This one contained the
Obligation of the employer, no later than six weeks after the end of the
employment relationship, the profile of the employee on the website of the company
to delete. The Complaints Office received confirmation of this deletion
leader a little later. In the time that followed, however, she realized that
luck to find her CV on the company's website
was. After she had lodged an objection to this, the company
these links will be deleted immediately.

Notwithstanding any consent given by the complainant
during the employment relationship the processing of her life
is inadmissible in any case after the end of the employment relationship. That is
the DS-GVO does not know a period of validity of a consent, but is subject to it
also the processing of personal data on the basis of consent in
within the framework of an employment relationship, the requirement of earmarking.100
Considering this requirement, it must therefore be assumed that

100 See Art 5 Para 1 lit b GDPR

 

120

Chapter 8 Employee data protection 8 3 Deletion of applicant data for the office of judge
 

 

consent to the publication of a curriculum vitae for the period of
employment is limited.

Personal data of employees are after the end of the work
to delete the employment relationship immediately if it is no longer required
or the data subject has withdrawn consent.101

8.3 Deletion of applicant data for the

 

judiciary

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The Senate Department for Justice, Consumer Protection and Anti-Discrimination
planned to increase the retention period for the selection notes on rejected applications
applicants for the office of judge from originally ten years
limited to five years. Which was still very long retention periods
with the peculiarities of the Berlin procedure for selection and recruitment
justified by judges. This comes as an independent organization
gans to the administration of justice a prominent role, which is why the decision
for a specific person in the selection process on as complete a
permanent factual basis is to be met. In this respect, the Senate administration
tion necessary for a selection decision, provided that female applicants
and applicants had previously applied, previous decisions
to include. This can be used to determine whether previously recognized deficits
continue to stand in the way of a positive selection. In view of the limited
th number of case situations discussed in the selection interviews would
rejected applicants also through prior knowledge from early
job interviews a significant competitive advantage over other
whose applicants receive that also against the background
of data protection hardly in accordance with the constitutionally guaranteed
Performance principle102 is to be brought.

101 See Art 17 Para 1 lit a and b GDPR
102 See Art 33 Para 2 Basic Law (GG)

 
 

121

Pursuant to Section 26, Paragraph 1, Clause 1 of the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG)103, applicants may
Training documents are only stored for as long as this is necessary for the decision
about the establishment of a specific employment relationship
is. However, the data should be available for a new hiring decision
following a negative decision on the establishment of an employment
contractual relationship. Another retention of data
of those affected in connection with an unsuccessful application, however
regularly only to justify the decision not to be hired, e.g.
in the context of a lawsuit based on the General Equal Treatment
law (AGG), permitted.104

 

In addition, a retention period of five years would be disproportionate. Five
Years-old application documents and interview logs or assessments
genes have no or only a very limited meaning, because they do
after a short time there is a personal development of the applicant
or the applicant conceivable.

Due to the peculiarities of applications for the office of judge, we decided
with a storage of the selection notes for one on the absolutely necessary
agreed to a period of up to two years that has been shortened to such an extent.
We have the Senate Department for Justice, Consumer Protection and Anti-Discrimination
asked to carry out an evaluation after two years as to whether this
retention period is actually required.

Data from rejected applicants is fundamental
after the end of the selection process and after the deadlines for
gene to delete. However, special features in individual cases must always be taken into account
and to take into account.

 

103 In this respect, the German legislature has relied on the opening clause of Art. 88 GDPR
Made use of and thus carries out the special legal regulation of § 32 BDSG
old version continued

104 See Art 17 Para. 3 e) GDPR

 

122

Chapter 8 Employee data protection 8 4 Internal WhatsApp group
 

 

8.4 Internal WhatsApp Group

 

One complainant's employment was terminated without notice. the
Termination became public because the letter of termination from the manager
rer photographed and in a WhatsApp group chat of the company, the
is used for coordination, has been published for all employees to see.
It was clear from the letter of termination that the complainant
Loan granted by the company to meet private payment obligations
to balance gene. Upon request, the company informed us that the business
fuhrer accidentally put the letter of resignation in the WhatsApp group
set.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Personal data of employees may not be used for employment
contractual relationship are processed if this is necessary for the decision on the
Justification of such or after justification for its implementation or
termination is required.105

The posting or forwarding of a letter of termination to a
internal whatsapp group can hardly be necessary and is therefore regular
unlawful. In the present case, the fact that
it was an oversight on the part of the manager.

Incidentally, the use of WhatsApp in the employment relationship is also for
Coordination purposes in the company with specifications for employee data
protection, such as storage limitation and integrity and confidentiality106
 
hardly compatible and had to be stopped here immediately. Opposite the
we have therefore issued a warning107.

 

The use of WhatsApp in employment involves considerable risks
ken for the personal rights of employees and is therefore regular
inadmissible.

105 § 26 paragraph 1 sentence 1 BDSG
106 See Section 26 (4) BDSG in conjunction with Art 5 GDPR
107 See Art 58 Para 2 lit b GDPR

 
 
 

123

8.5 Notes on operational procedures
 

 

integration management
 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

As part of a process for operational integration management
(BEM), together with the company doctor, came up with a proposal for a solution
employees, which is later discussed in a case discussion
was discussed in accordance with the works agreement. This conversation was recorded
collided. However, the corresponding protocol was missing when the files were inspected
the employees. When asked, she was informed that a corresponding
Protocol does not exist or has not yet been released and incidentally also
would not be part of the BEM file, since these are handwritten notes of a
nes BEM participants act and therefore an inspection is not granted
that could. On the other hand, the person concerned turned with her complaint.

According to the DS-GVO, the person concerned has the right from the person responsible
to request information as to whether personal data concerning you
will be or were working.108 The person responsible has in particular one
Copy of the personal data that is the subject of the processing
were to be made available to the person concerned or, as in the present
the case desired to allow inspection of the data.109

According to a decision by the Federal Administrative Court, notebooks, daily
booklets etc. no personnel processes, insofar as they are due to individual
approval of the owner of the booklet for the exclusively personal
personal use, even if their content is official
has.110 The only prerequisite or condition for the management of such
Notebooks or notebooks with personal notes are one after this decision
secure storage against access by third parties or other persons (e.g.
colleagues, cleaners, etc.).

 

108 Article 15 (1) GDPR
109 Article 15 (3) GDPR
110 Judgment of the Federal Administrative Court of October 19, 2005 − 1 D 14 04

 
 
 

124

Chapter 8 Employee data protection 8 5 Notes on company integration management procedures
 

 

In the present case, handwritten notes of a participant were
prepared in a so-called discussion meeting. These were intended for service
Necessary, because without written fixation or without protocols measures or
Assistance not implemented specifically and correctly and those affected not
could be comprehensively informed about the outcome of the case discussion. A
only personal use is excluded. The refusal of insight
acceptance by the applicant was therefore unlawful.

After a brief exchange of letters, the company informed us that it now has
the complainant full access to the notes on the case
granted. Because of the violation, we issued a warning
 
chen.111

Employees have a full right to knowledge or insight
inclusion in records and documents containing personal data about them
included - both in electronic and paper form.

111 See Art 58 Para 2 lit b GDPR

 

125


9 economy
9.1 The Perpetual Tenant File
 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

The first German fine under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
in the millions we imposed on Deutsche Wohnen in October 2019
SE, the second largest German real estate company. The reason was the
increasing storage of countless documents that are required for the implementation of rental
do not contract at all or after the expiration of accounting
currency periods were no longer required.

During an on-site inspection at Deutsche Wohnen SE in June 2017,
fall that the archiving system set up by this company also
contained documents that should not have been filed there from the outset
or whose retention period had already expired. For example, the
preservation of copies of identity documents or employment and training
contracts for the execution of an ongoing tenancy is not required
lich and therefore also not permitted. We informed the company afterwards
to the examination at that time that the system provided was not the applicable one
corresponds to the legal situation and must be corrected. Deutsche Wohnen SE
after initial hesitation, agreed at the end of 2017 to illegally store
to remove certain documents and subsequently presented a concept for this,
which is significantly based on a review of the stored documents in a
automated procedures.

 

In March 2019, we again subjected the database to a thorough on-site
the test to tell us about the success of Deutsche Wohnen SE's approach
to convince. We had our doubts about the company that the planned
procedure would lead to a complete cleansing of the database,
communicated a year earlier. However, it turned out that the company
do not delete a single document at the time of the check, only
started with some preparatory work. Earliest in summer
2019 should actually start with the deletion of the illegally stored data
to be started.

126

Chapter 9 Economy 9 1 The eternal tenant file

 

So we had to realize that Deutsche Wohnen SE had more than one and a half
years after the first examination and more than nine months after the validity of the DS
GVO neither carried out the deletion nor determined the data to be deleted,
only created the conditions for fulfilling the obligation to delete
would have.

These requirements include, in particular, storing the data in a
System that has a function for deleting selected documents
adds. Deutsche Wohnen SE had expressly configured its archive system in such a way
let it be known that it was not possible to delete individual documents. she led
indicated that this was necessary for reasons of revision security. However, this is
not the case. Commercial and tax law only requires that certain
documents are kept unchanged for a legally fixed period of time. To
At the end of this retention period, deletion must take place, if not in
There are special reasons against it in individual cases. An archive system must therefore
be constructed that the legally required deletion processes also required
tene do not affect the further storage of more recent documents. This is without
More is possible with systems that have been available on the market for years.

In addition, as part of the purchase of real estate, Deutsche Wohnen SE
documents handed over by the previous owners were scanned en bloc for years
and saved the trouble of sorting out documents for safekeeping
no longer had a legal basis or had never existed before. This form
the data transfer was already inadmissible under the old legal situation. the German
schen Wohnen SE was this inadmissibility by our notice at the latest
known since 2017. It is all the more surprising that we
ten state in 2019. We were only introduced
the software solution that should do the sorting in the future.
At the same time, it became apparent that - as tests by the company had shown -
this software solution does not recognize all documents to be sorted out
would, however, manual verification in cases of doubt
wasn't planned.

 

The DS-GVO requires those responsible that - when determining the co-
Tel of the processing and at the time of its implementation - technical and
take organizational measures to ensure compliance with data protection

127

to ensure principles. One of those principles is that data only
lawfully and to the extent necessary for the respective purposes
be killed If these purposes and any storage obligations are fulfilled, then
must be deleted. Since Deutsche Wohnen SE has been such for a long time
has not taken necessary measures, we have this violation against
the requirement of data protection punished by technology design.

A sprawling storage practice cannot because of supposedly existing
obligations to retain personal data are justified.
Even large companies that have a large number due to their business model
of data must process the possibly high effort for the ca-
categorization of this data, creation of technical conditions
to enable the legally required deletion and for the implementation
accept existing deletion obligations. The creation of "data cemetery
fen”, as in the present case, regularly does not meet the requirements
to technical and organizational measures, the implementation of which
GMO for the protection of those affected, and does not constitute any legal
moderate processing of personal data.

9.2 Please smile! – access to coworking
 

 

Clear only after photo shoots

Guests of users of coworking spaces112 were only granted access if
if they let themselves be photographed during registration. These photos should of
Registration of visits, averting danger and preserving evidence.
The recordings were saved for 30 days.

Guests of users of coworking office space had to find out about a
a permanently installed tablet computer as a registration app
Register visitors. This app asked both the names of the

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

112 The term coworking describes the sharing of workspaces with corporate

 

strangers In the so-called coworking spaces, one usually rents individuals
desks for short periods of time. Mainly freelancers and start-up companies
men use this concept

128

Chapter 9 Economy 9 2 Please smile! – Access to coworking spaces only after photo shoots
 

 

guests as well as the names of the people with whom they are registered
should. The app then started the front camera and took a picture of the
respective person. Only after completing the registration process
Guests are picked up at reception. Were saved next to the name of the
guest and the host person also the reason, the date and the time
of the visit and the photo of the guest.

Processing of the personal data of visitors
chern is only lawful insofar as it protects the legitimate interests of the
or the person responsible or a third party and unless internal
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the persons concerned
weigh.113 In the present case, a frictional
loose visit registration, a preventive defense against danger and a subsequent one
Evidence to be considered. However, taking photos of the visit
visitors are not required for these purposes. There was right away
tive but less intrusive measures to achieve the desired result
to achieve.

On the one hand, the transmission of the visitor's name already guarantees
te that this is the invitee. On the other hand, they will
Guests also picked up at reception. This ensures that hosts
only let in visitors who you know personally
to a previous invitation. Incidentally, through the template
A photo ID will be used to ensure that the attendee is present
person is the person actually registered.

Upon our intervention, the person in charge of the office space rental has that
procedure turned off.

The creation and storage of photographs when registering
searchers and visitors is unlawful, since milder, equally suitable means
tel are available to ensure a smooth registration.

113 Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR

 

129

9.3
 

Collection agency: Personal
change is not excluded

After an address query for an
forward the data of a complainant, although neither her current arrival
schrift nor their previous address with the billing and delivery address of the
identical debtor matched.

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

 

 

The collection agency was from a company with the collection of a
open claim from a goods purchase contract has been commissioned. In this
It had context, among other things, surname, first name, date of birth, current address
and delivery address of the debtor of the claim. This was first
by e-mail and then by post to the delivery address for payment
asked about the open claim, but did not respond. Two more to the
Letters addressed to the delivery address could not be delivered by Deutsche Post
will. The debt collection company therefore applied, stating the known
Address data a request for the current address of the debtor in the case of an
future egg.

However, the answer given by the credit agency included the address and the
Previous address of a person with the same name, namely that of the complainant
included - naturally, both statements did not agree with the debt collection
already available address information. The Credit Bureau
However, the information was expressly subject to a so-called identity reservation
placed. Despite this, and without further examination, the collection agency demanded
from the complainant now the settlement of the claim against the
debtor.

Although companies can in principle use collection agencies to assert
commission the correction of existing claims from a contractual relationship
and are allowed to provide them with the necessary personal
transmit personal data of debtors. Based on the same legal
basis, debt collection companies can use the data required for the fulfillment of their
additionally required data, e.g. a new address, by requesting a
collect credit reporting. If, on the other hand, the claims are passed on to a collection agency

130

Chapter 9 Economy 9 3 Debt collection companies: Confusion of persons cannot be ruled out

 

men assigned (factoring), this becomes your own contractual partner
the respective debtors and must have its data processing
based on another legal basis.114
 

The use of the complainant's address violated the specific case
however, against the legal requirements. Since the complainant
was not the debtor of the claim, the debt collection company could
objectively already with regard to the processing of your personal data
have an effective legal basis.

 
Personal data that are processed must be factually correct.115
From this follows the obligation of each responsible body, through appropriate
organizational and technical procedures to ensure that identity
changes are excluded. In the present case, the collection agency had
fails to develop and implement appropriate testing processes.

The collection agency has informed us that it has changed its procedure for
 
have changed in the meantime to avoid a mix-up of persons. Since
the changeover could result in a new address from a query at a credit agency
only be used if one of the prefixes from the address query
with the already known address of the debtor
agrees.

Companies may only process factually correct data and are
is obliged to use suitable technical and organizational procedures to ensure
ensure that confusion of identity is excluded. information
from information with a reservation of identity must never be made without careful
examination can be used in individual cases.

114 Art 6 Para 1 lit b GDPR
115 Art 5 Para 1 lit d GDPR

 
 

131

9.4
 

“Pot Secret” makes everything public

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Since January 2019, citizens have been able to use the “Topf Secret” platform
the protocols of official hygiene controls of catering establishments such as
Request restaurants or bakeries. Total were about the platform
nearly 50,000 applications submitted. The project was funded by the consumer organization
Foodwatch e. V. and the operator of the FragDenstaat internet platform
sam initiated.

The application is made on the basis of the Consumer Information Act
zes (VIG), on the basis of which each person independently submits a request to the
competent authority.116 However, the platform not only wants to
facilitate carrying position for individuals, but the correspondence and
Also publish hygiene reports to create transparency.

If you want to submit an application via the platform, choose via the integrated
Map of OpenStreetMap117 from a restaurant. Then you have to
sen the own name and address are given. The platform
generates an individual e-mail address for each request, to which the answer
go to the authorities. If a requested authority responds by email,
these answers will be automatically published without attachments, some data
also automatically blackened. All further correspondence must die
Activate the applicant first or upload it yourself. You will
asked to make personal data unrecognizable in this context,
which enables them technically on the platform through an application program
becomes light.

The platform processes data from three groups of people: The first
are the applicants themselves, the second are the holders of the
often very small catering establishments and the third group the clerical
tend in the authorities to which the inquiries are addressed.

116 § 1 VIG
117 OpenStreetMap is an online city map that is also used as a geoinformation

 
 

system This also includes the addresses of many catering establishments
recorded

132

Chapter 9 Economics 9 4 "Pot Secret" makes everything public

 

 

Our test initially dealt with the redaction program used:
This program is able to independently edit some formulations in the
Recognizing emails, such as "Dear...", and in this case automatically
to redact the name that follows. The documents that the
However, applicants and the e-mail attachments must be uploaded
redact yourself with the provided program. The platform points this out
very clearly. Despite this, in some cases these documents are not or
not sufficiently anonymised.

Since the platform is an online service, first of all is like this
it can be assumed that the people who upload the documents are responsible for the
are responsible. The providers of the platform are only then responsible for the
Responsible for content if you become aware of it - e.g. by clicking on it
informed.118 In this case, they must
care. We could not determine a systematic violation here, since
the platform when they become aware of insufficiently redacted documents
was made, this in the cases known to us within a very short time after
fetched, sometimes within a few minutes.

The inquiries themselves cannot be made anonymously, as VIG uses these
submissions are required.119 The only option on the platform is to opt out
decide to have his name displayed publicly by the user
a tick next to the statement "I don't want my name published"
light will” (opt-out). This does not constitute consent within the meaning of the GDPR
dar. Because consent is only given if an active decision for a
data processing is carried out. This would be the case, for example, if there was a tick in front of
the sentence "Yes, I would like my name to be published" (opt-in).
can be. However, the platform has set itself the goal of having one if possible
transparent dialogue between citizens and the state
promote jobs. Within the framework of this concept, it can still be
be considered appropriate to also publish the names of the applicants.
Nevertheless, clear information is missing here, when and where exactly the names
to be published. At present, it is not initially pointed out that in

118 § 10 Telemedia Act (TMG)
119 § 4 para. 1 sentence 3 VIG

 
 

133

As a rule, the inquirers are named on the website. We have-
asked the platform to insert such a note, because responsible
literal are required by law to process personal data in a manner for which
to process the data subject in a comprehensible manner and to be transparent about this
rent120 so that they can exercise their rights in a comprehensive manner
can perceive. Even if the users have decided to
not to publish, it can happen that these are in correspondence with
are not accidentally made unrecognizable by an authority before the docu-
be uploaded by the applicant or the platform. Also
the platform must expressly point out this risk.

Incidentally, there was no current data on the platform at the beginning of our
privacy policy published. Upon our notice, the statement
updated, in particular it now refers to the rights of those affected.

Complaints that reached us because the authorities required the disclosure of control
reports refused, but we could not follow up. Our
authority can, in VIG matters – in contrast to the Berlin information
tion freedom law (IFG) – do not mediate because the VIG does not have an arbitration board
and us this function by the state legislature only in relation to the IFG
was transferred.121 However, we have the authorities in the respective cases
pointed out that in principle no personal information is required from applicants
white copy may be requested.

The platform "Topf Secret" has taken some steps to
equal between transparency and data protection. What the transparency
As far as data processing is concerned, improvements are still required.

120 See Art 5 Para 1 lit a in conjunction with EC 39 GDPR and Art 12 Para 1 in conjunction with EC 58 GDPR
121 § 18 IFG

 
 

134

Chapter 9 Economy 9 5 Hello Prohibition of coupling

 

9.5 Hello Prohibition of Pairing

 

The company HelloFresh has added to its service when registering online
requires that with a single tick of the data protection declaration, the general
my terms and conditions and contacting Wer-
purpose is approved at the same time.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

 

Collecting consent in this form is illegal. Then
consent is only effective if it is given voluntarily. voluntarily means
that one can decide for or against something without suffering disadvantages
the. In other words, consent must not be a condition for something
be made, which can be separated from other processes.122 In this case
it must be possible, for example, to order groceries without having to
understanding of the use of the personal telephone number for contact
to explain.

 

This ensures that the processing of personal data in order
whose consent is sought, not directly or indirectly in return for
can become a contract. Consent and contract are
two different legal bases for lawful processing
personal data. These two legal bases must not
be guided, their boundaries must not become blurred.

To assess whether such improper bundling or linking exists,
it must be determined what the scope of the contract is and what data for
the performance of the contract is necessary. Consent to the telephone
Contact for the purpose of advertising was here for the provision of the contract
trags, delivery of groceries, not required. A delivery can
can also be made to people without a telephone. This consent was therefore
lawfully linked to the performance of the service.

122 See Art 7 Para 4 GDPR, EC Nos. 42 and 43 GDPR

 

135

We were able to obtain consent to be contacted by telephone
has been removed from the box text. Consent to the te-
Telephone contact for advertising purposes obtained separately.

Consent to a data not required for the performance of a contract
Data processing must not be made a condition of the contract.

9.6 Asset Deal Customer Data

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

The sale of individual lines of business, assets,
product lines or services of one company to another company
business (asset deal) is part of day-to-day business in the economic sector. who in
ways of an asset deal only individual assets of a company
usually also has a great interest in acquiring the associated
existing customer data in order to purchase goods or services from the company
business branch to be able to continue to offer customers.

The sale of customer data in such case constellations is a data
processing, the legality of which is determined by the DS-GVO.123
 

Customer data may be passed on if an effective consent
ment of the customer to transfer the data to the acquiring company
company.124

In addition, data transfer can also be justified if it is used to
tion of legitimate interests of the person responsible or a third party
is.125 In doing so, it must be examined to what extent the interests of customers that are worthy of protection
customers oppose such a data transfer.

123 See Art 4 No 2 DS-GVO for the definition of personal data and Art 6 Para 1

 

DS-GVO on the legality of data processing

124 Art 6 Para 1 lit a GDPR, Art 7 GDPR
125 Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR

 
 

136

Chapter 9 Economics 9 6 Customer data in asset deals

 

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and
of the federal states (DSK) has made recommendations for uniform administrative practice
says goodbye and agrees on a catalog of case groups that
the legally prescribed balancing of interests in an asset deal.
can be pulled.126

It must be examined in each individual case whether a transfer of customer
data is compatible with the purpose for which the data was originally collected. loading
if there is no compatibility or if the data is sensitive127, a way
Delivery only on the basis of the informed consent of the customer
customers possible.

In the other cases, the following applies: A transfer of customer data for the purpose of
Continuation of current contracts can be justified if the customers
Customers their civil law approval to take over the contract or the
Obligations from the contract by the acquiring body according to or analogously
to Section 415 of the German Civil Code (BGB). Such a civil law
che approval can regularly also be used as data protection consent
for the transition of the necessary data128, but also as for
Fulfillment of contract required129 or permitted on the basis of a weighing of interests
be sig130.

The same applies to cases in which customer data in connection with open for-
are to be transferred to a purchaser.
Here, too, the admissibility is initially based on the provisions of civil law

 

126 DSK resolution of May 24, 2019: “Asset deal – catalog of case groups” (https://
www datenschutz-berlin de/infothek-und-service/veroeffentlichungen/decisions-
se-dsk/); Note: The decision was made by the Berlin Commissioner for Data
Protection and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI) and the Saxon Data Protection Officer
ten rejected The BlnBDI informs the resolution under number 2 “existing customers without
current contracts and last contractual relationship older than 3 years"
sung, according to which a transmission and use of this data for purposes of legal
retention periods should be permissible, and represents the ab-
yielding legal position

 

127 See Art 9 GDPR
128 Art 6 Para 1 lit a GDPR, Art 7 GDPR
129 Art 6 Para 1 lit b GDPR
130 Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR

 
 
 
 

137

provisions of the assignment of claims131. If, from a civil law perspective, a transfer
transfer possible and an assignment of claims not by agreement
excluded,132 a transfer of the claim in connection
communication of customer data also be permissible under data protection law133.

Data from customers in the advanced stages of initiating a contract or
of existing customers without current contracts, whose last active
tive contractual relationship no longer than three years ago can get in the way
of the objection solution (so-called opt-out model). are there
to inform all those affected in advance about the planned sale and they are
a reasonable objection period of at least six weeks
should, concede. Unless an objection is declared, the transfer of
respective data to the buyer is permitted.134 In the event of an objection
claim, the data may not be passed on to the purchaser
be practiced

A transmission of the data of existing customers for whom the
last active contractual relationship was more than three years ago, to an acquisition
However, in principle, it is not permitted to be a member or an acquirer. For such
There is already a legal obligation, independent of the application, of the original
original company to delete, provided this data is relevant for the purposes for
which they were collected or processed are no longer necessary.135 A further
Further processing can only be carried out in accordance with Art. 17 Para. 3 DS-GVO, such as
on the basis of legal obligations to fulfill tax or
commercial obligations may be permissible. It is in each case in each case
to obligations of the original company, which are not based on an
advertising position are transferrable. For this reason, the transmission is such
Legacy data to purchasers is not permitted under data protection law.

Especially not according to § 399 2 Alt BGB

131 See §§ 398 ff BGB
 
132
 
 
133 On the basis of Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR
134 According to Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR
 
 
135 See Art 17 Para 1 lit a 2 old GDPR

138

Chapter 9 Economy 9 7 Businesses: Ensure processing of inquiries from data subjects!
 

 

The transfer of customer data to the purchaser
In the case of an asset deal, a company can in certain case constellations
may also be permitted without the consent of the customer. Included
However, it must always be carefully checked whether a transfer with the purpose of
original collection of the data is compatible and whether its proprietary
contrary to the interests of customers.

9.7 Business: Handling Inquiries

 

Ensure affected person!

In complaints procedures, the responsible bodies often raise the objection
brought, data subjects had their request for information, correction,
Deletion or assertion of an advertising objection or its revocation
of consent not to the person responsible within a company
body and for this reason a timely answer I
Your request or your request cannot be implemented.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The addressee when asserting the rights of data subjects is according to the GDPR
the person responsible as such136. If the person responsible takes such a
If an application is accepted, it must be processed, even if there is a different internal
referenced distribution of tasks was determined. Even e-mails that are supposed to
Real spam accepted by the mail server, but in a spam folder
been moved and not read have been received.

A responsible body is obliged to use suitable technical and organizational
torical measures to fulfill their data protection obligations
genes.137 Through suitable internal organizational measures and
process flows is a forwarding to the company responsible for this
permanent position and correspondingly timely processing of inquiries
to guarantee. Responsible bodies should check their effectiveness regularly

 

136 See definition in Art 4 No. 7 GDPR: "...the natural or legal person,
authority, institution or other body that alone or jointly with others over the
decides the purposes and means of processing personal data;..."

137 Article 24 (1) GDPR

 

139

check and, if necessary, make adjustments to the processes in order to
comply with their obligations.

Companies are always obliged to take appropriate measures to ensure
ensure that all incoming data protection inquiries also
reach the contact persons responsible for them in order to
comply with legal obligations.

9.8
 

Internet imprint: No use of
Data for advertising purposes!

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Again and again we receive complaints from people who work for companies,
with which they have no connection, advertising in the form of letters,
receive emails or calls. As part of the hearings we carried out
responsible bodies often refer to information published on the Internet
clock data of the persons concerned and take the view that an additional
The use of advertising is permissible in such case constellations, since there is an interest
these people in the goods and services offered
if only because of the content of the data placed on the Internet by the person concerned
website or their professional group or their activity can be assumed.

Processing of personal data for advertising purposes
be lawful if they are used to protect the legitimate interests of the
responsible is necessary, unless the interests of the data subject
predominate.138 In principle, direct advertising can be a legitimate inter-
present the responsible body.139

 

The data given in the imprint is generally
accessible information. However, these are not voluntarily, but expediently
bound to fulfill the legal obligation to identify providers
according to § 5 Telemedia Act (TMG). Due to a lack of voluntariness and

138 Art 6 Para 1 Sentence 1 lit f GDPR
139 EC 47 GDPR

 
 

140

Chapter 9 Economy 9 8 Internet imprint: No use of data for advertising purposes!

 

In view of the earmarking of the publication, the legally required
relevant balancing of interests regularly to the fact that the advertising use of the
type of data collected is inadmissible.140

In addition, the processing of personal data for advertising purposes
also inadmissible if the assessments of § 7 of the law against the
unfair competition (UWG). According to this standard, in particular
their advertising by fax, automatic call or "electronic mail" such as
E-mails, SMS or Messenger only with the prior express consent of
called person allowed. The same applies to telephone advertising to Ver-
consumers, including, for example, employed legal
lawyers belong. But even personal data
by traders may only be used exceptionally for telephone advertising
be det: Required is a specific interest of the person called, that
justifies the assumption of presumed consent. The fact that
a certain type of company always needs certain services – e.g
Telecommunications – has is not enough.

In the case of existing business contacts, advertising can exceptionally be
nischer Post” without consent.141 However, contact details are only
taken from an imprint, these requirements can never be met.

A processing of personal data from an imprint
Advertising purposes is regularly not permitted.

 

140 See also point 4 3 of the DSK’s guidance on the processing of personal
collected data for direct marketing purposes subject to the General Data Protection Regulation
ordinance (DS-GVO) (available at: https://www datenschutz-berlin de/infothek-
and-service/publications/orientation aids/)

 

141 Section 7 (3) UWG

 

141

9.9
 

Tax consultant activity in the payroll
attitude – no order processing!

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

The question of whether payroll accounting by tax consultants
Order processing is carried out or is carried out under one's own responsibility, was
therefore controversial and repeated subject of discussion in the working group
association of the DSK. With the new version of Section 11 of the Tax Advisory Act (StBerG)
the data protection classification of the activities of tax consultants
tax consultants as those responsible under data protection law
clarified by the legislature.

In practice, there were repeated discussions about whether tax consultants
tax consultants who take over the tasks of external payroll accounting
men, legally as contract processors or as themselves under data protection law
to be assigned responsibility.

Before the new legal regulation, we took the view that for
Tax consultants who regard themselves as responsible
hen for the processing of the personal data of their clients and
corresponding contracts concluded, no order processing contract
be required. If tax consultants are against it so far
subject to the instructions of their clients that one of
Order processing could go out was our earlier opinion
conclude an order processing contract.

With the new tax law, the legislature has now clarified
ensures that tax consultants or tax consulting firms
companies when providing services according to the StBerG as data
are to be regarded as persons responsible under intellectual property law and order processing
is no longer considered.

 
Section 11 (2) sentence 1 and sentence 2 StBerG has been reworded as follows:

“The processing of personal data by individuals and companies according to
§ 3 takes place without instructions, taking into account the professional duties applicable to them. the person

142

Chapter 9 Economy 9 9 Tax consultancy in payroll accounting – no order processing!

 

Sons and companies according to § 3 are in the processing of all personal
gener data of their clients responsible according to article 4 number 7 of the data
General Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679."

Accordingly, personal data is processed by tax authorities
raters and tax consultants or tax consulting companies under beach
execution of the professional duties applicable to them without instructions. This also applies if
within the scope of their legal obligations, they provide commercial assistance in tax
provide goods and in doing so use personal data of their clients
work.

According to the explanatory memorandum to the law142, this also includes the “booking of ongoing
business transactions", the "ongoing payroll accounting" and the "preparation of the payroll
tax registrations", which are regarded as independent activities
the. The assistance of the tax consultants commissioned with the payroll accounting
Tax consultants and tax consulting firms will close afterwards
In the opinion of the legislature, an independent examination and
application of the legal provisions. tax advisors
Accordingly, consultants or tax consulting companies are involved in the provision
of services according to the StBerG will always be responsible for data protection
literal to look at.

Tax consultants or tax consulting companies,
who perform business-related tasks of external payroll accounting,
according to the new regulation of § 11 StBerG are always as
responsible for data protection.

142 BT-Drs 19/14909, p. 58

 

143

9.10 Retention of Customer Data upon Cancellation

 

a registration process

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

One company worked with a multi-stage registration process
its online platform, in which the e-mail address and password are initially
were asked and then, in three further steps, various additional
che data. Each step was completed with a "Save and continue" button
de. It was pointed out that the entered data was saved
be completed so that the registration can also be completed at a later
can be sen. The complainant had registered in the course of the
Data entry aborted. He later received an e-mail from the platform
shape.

If someone cancels a registration process, the continued storage
of the personal data entered is not readily permissible. That is
there is a legitimate interest of platforms, an interruption and later
to allow further resumption of the registration process. However is
it is not necessary for this to collect the data of all those affected who have passed the registration
abort process to save. Just the fact that a company is about
informed about the storage of personal data does not mean that
 
this is permissible.143

Therefore, an explicit button such as “Cancel
and delete data" are provided so that the request to abort the program
process can be expressed in a simple and unambiguous way.
Likewise, it should have an explicit button such as "Save data to register
to continue later”; the storage period is appropriate in this case
to be determined. If someone just doesn't continue the registration without
to click one of these two buttons, it must be determined from which time
of inactivity a termination is to be assumed. It also depends on
how long it takes to fill out the respective form, including any necessary
compilation of the requested information takes time. additional
is a reasonable period of time to cover, for example, spontaneous disturbances.

143 See also the focus report on address rental in 1 3

 

144

Chapter 9 Economy 9 11 rules of conduct according to Art. 40 DS-GVO - A development report

 

 

 

If a registration process is technically designed in such a way that a storage
Storage of the data on the server only after the registration process has been completed
takes place, the problem of deletion does not arise. The server storage for
later continuation could then be offered as an option.

In registration processes, it should be used both for further storage and
also give appropriate buttons for canceling. A privacy
friendly alternative would be server storage only at the end of the
process.

9.11 Rules of conduct according to Art. 40 GDPR -

 

 

A development report

 

Many companies complain that the regulations of the GDPR are very general
be kept mine. In practice, it is often difficult for them to assess which
specific data processing is permissible and what protective measures are required
are required.

In order to provide companies with assistance, the DS-GVO stipulates that
Associations can develop so-called rules of conduct that the responsible
authority.144 Such rules of conduct can only be
at national level or at EU level with the resulting EU-wide
Validity to be agreed and approved.

The aim of such rules of conduct is to comply with the provisions of the GDPR for individuals
Sectors and their typical case constellations to specify and so the
Simplify GDPR compliance for businesses. The regulators
therefore check in the approval process on the one hand whether the rules of conduct
of the GDPR are in line, but on the other hand also whether they are actually one
Clarification or simplification of the GDPR requirements for companies
Act. Because therein lies the added value of such rules.

144 = Codes of Conduct, see Art 40, 41 GDPR

 

145

We expressly welcome the possibility of such rules of conduct. in the pra
However, xis shows that creating and implementing it is very complex
are. Notable simplifications for those responsible through rules of conduct
will therefore only arise in the medium term. We support the development
rules of conduct but to the best of their ability.

European guidelines
At the beginning of 2019, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB)
tending guidelines that cover both the content and the formal aspects
Define the requirements for the aforementioned rules of conduct in more detail.145 This provides
an important aid for associations in the development.

According to these guidelines, every association must have a so-called monitoring
set up or commission a position. Such monitoring points are in the DS
GMOs are planned.146 In addition to being controlled by the supervisory authorities, they should
ensure that the rules of conduct of the companies concerned also
be respected. The monitoring bodies require accreditation
by a supervisory authority.

Until the guidelines were passed, it was disputed whether the GDPR
mandatory provision of monitoring bodies for rules of conduct. we
share the view with the other German supervisory authorities
represented that the regulations of the DS-GVO also the approval of behavior
permit tensing rules without a monitoring body. However, we are the majority
been overruled by the European supervisory authorities. Therefore behavior
tenancy rules only come into force when a correspondingly accurate
there is a dedicated monitoring body for this. This means a significant
additional expenditure of time and money for the respective associations. However
there is the possibility of complaints from affected persons in the monitoring
to channel the information point.

145 Guidelines 1/2019 on codes of conduct and monitoring bodies according to the

 

 
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (https://edpb europa eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/
smjernice/guidelines-12019-codes-conduct-and-monitoring-bodies-under_de)

146 Art 41 GDPR

 

146

Chapter 9 Economy 9 11 rules of conduct according to Art. 40 DS-GVO - A development report

 

 

 

Accreditation criteria for monitoring bodies
Despite European guidelines, every supervisory authority is legally obliged to
establish and approve criteria for the accreditation of monitoring bodies
publish.147 Before publication, these criteria must be dated
EDSA to be approved. The supervisory authorities in Austria and the United
Kingdom were the first to successfully complete this process
ben.

In Germany, the working group on economics of the DSK has set up a working group
in order to expose such criteria uniformly for all German supervisory authorities
to work. We played a key role in this work. The elaborated
Criteria were decided by the DSK in November 2019 and sent to the EDSA
forwarded for approval. We hope to publish the result soon
be able to.

First procedures
We held intensive consultations with the first associations. middle
At the moment two of these associations have 148 draft codes of conduct in their
respective industry and apply for approval. In doing so,
but shown that it represents a major challenge for the associations that
to design regulations in such a way that they provide concrete action for their members
represent relief. So far we have been able to do both approval procedures
not finish.

 
 

147 Art 57 para 1 lit p 1 old GDPR
148 ADM – Working Group of German Market and Opinion Research Institutes and Federal
tion of European National Collection Associations The latter is about
a European umbrella organization for industry associations of credit management and
Debt Collection Industry The Federal Association of German Debt Collection Companies eV is one
of the member associations

147



s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

10 finances
10.1 Declaration of Consent of the Savings Banks

 
 

The German Savings Banks and Giro Association (DSGV) has a data protection
che declaration of consent drafted by all savings banks in Germany
  
 
was used. This read:
"I would like to be advised individually and as precisely as possible, supported and informed about pro-
be informed about products and campaigns: I therefore agree that the
Sparkasse links the following data about me, jointly evaluates and
turns:
1. Personal data such as name, date of birth, marital status, occupation
2. Contact information, such as address, email and telephone number
3. Data on my creditworthiness, my financial situation, my willingness to take risks

 
 
 

business and my credit risk

 

4. Checking account, debit and credit card details, such as card number, balance, credit
frame, interest, sales (without purpose and recipient) or
comparable data

5. Custody, credit, leasing and deposit data, such as product type, balances, interest

 

rates, security developments, maturities and comparable data

 

6. Data from consultation and service talks, sales activities, documentation
mentations and questionnaires, savings bank financial concepts, product
checks, as well as comparable data

 

7. Statistical data assigned to me using general criteria
can be used, for example for the suitability of certain financial products
by age groups

 

8. Data from transactions brokered for me by the Sparkasse, such as decade
 
Bank depot, various forms of leasing and hire-purchase, building loan
and insurance contracts and similar transactions

9. Data from the network partners about products held by me, such as insurance

 

insurance, home savings contracts and financial services

 

10. Data about my use of digital offers that the savings banks and
Association partners each offer, such as call times of websites, apps or
Newsletters, clicked pages or entries and comparable data"

148

Chapter 10 Finances 10 1 Savings Banks' declaration of consent

 

In addition, the following notice was given:
"If you do not consent or consent at a later date
revoked, this will not affect our business relationship. We can
Then process your data to the extent permitted by law (e.g. for
fulfillment of contract). Also other consents and agreements with
us or third parties are not affected by this."
Several data subjects have asked us to verify the legality of the consent
to check statement. There were also complaints nationwide because individual
Savings banks had submitted pre-ticked forms to those affected and
individual employees had claimed in conversation that
Consent is required due to the Money Laundering Act (GwG) or the
Sparkasse can terminate the business relationship without a corresponding declaration
not maintained.

 

Since the DSGV is based in Berlin, we have the responsible supervisory authority
Negotiations with the association about the wording of the declaration of consent
tion and the manner of data collection. We managed to
to reach a viable compromise. This essentially contained the following
agreements:

 
• The DSGV sensitizes the regional associations and savings banks to
hend that the customers on the voluntariness of the consent
be advised; the employees of the bank
instructed not to change the declarations of consent through pressure or the wrong
to obtain a cal presentation of facts.

 
• The previously used declaration of consent will be carried out as quickly as possible

replaced by a new declaration of consent.

 
• The old declaration of consent lacked transparency for the customer
customers and customers who provide financial advice solely on a legal basis
is based and which can only take place with express consent. the
new declaration of consent is now formulated in such a way that for those affected
it is transparent to what extent the data processing is based on a legal
basis and from when data processing is only based on a single
consent can be supported.

149

• A joint consent to all ten points of the consent
 
agreement waived, those affected will in future be offered a joint
consent to points 1 to 9 is requested, for point 10 a
independent consent is obtained. This corresponds to the specifications
of EG149 43 sentence 2 DS-GVO, which is used in various data processing
requires separate consent. Consent to the evaluation of
individual use of digital offers is different from the other facts
separate because it is a separate issue.

• When analyzing individual internet use, health
 
data (sleep disorders, dyslexia, etc.) can be determined. The new
ligung ensures that no sensitive data is lost without this being expressly stated
be processed at the will of the customer.

The agreement has already been implemented except for the separation of the separate
consent to point 10 of the declaration of consent. This should be done by May 2020.

Our negotiations with the DSGV have led to a significant improvement
the declaration of consent used by the savings banks.

10.2 Mortgage credit only with information about
 

 

family planning?

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Customers of a Hessian Volksbank who are interested in a mortgage
Interested in counter credit must fill out a questionnaire that also
Information on family planning is to be provided. This information is not voluntary
lig, in any case a corresponding reference is missing. The bank justified its
go among other things with the fact that the question of family planning on the recommendation of the
Federal Association of German Volksbanken and Raiffeisenbanken e. V. (BVR)
successes. We took this as an opportunity with the Berlin-based
Association to have a conversation.

 

149 recital

 

150

Chapter 10 Finances 10 2 Mortgage credit only with information about family planning?

 

The Association of Banks submitted that the question of family planning was due to
Section 511 of the Civil Code (BGB), according to which the bank prior to provision
the consulting service u. a. about the "personal situation" of the customer
 
I have to inform customers. in the subsequent lending
the minutes of the consultation will be taken into account. Answering the question
after family planning, however, is neither for the allocation of a concrete
dits still a decisive criterion for its conditions.

There is a legal basis for the question of family planning
not, the bank's actions are therefore unlawful. As part of the free
willing consultation, it depends to a large extent on the customer
which advice you want. The question of family planning is
only permissible if the persons concerned expressly indicate that it is voluntary
be advised of the information. A legal obligation to query the
Family planning does not result from § 511 BGB either. The "personal situation"
includes only those events for the occurrence of which at least concrete
breakpoints are available. Otherwise, other potentially occurring events would also have to
events (e.g. relatives in need of care, illness) can be queried. Since the
Answering the question about family planning neither for awarding a
specific credit nor for its conditions is the data
also not necessary for the execution of the loan agreement.

No agreement was reached with the association. Banks that feature
Inquire about family planning must expect regulatory action.

The question of family planning in the context of a counseling session
lending is - without reference to the voluntary nature of the information - legal
adverse.

151

10.3 How many identity cards does one need

 

Association for opening an account?

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

An association that works for the interests of the Berlin police wanted one
Open a bank account. The first chairman and the treasurer of the association should
authorized to bank, but not the other members of the Management Board.
The association gave the bank copies of the identity cards of the authorized representatives who
tax identification number and the register of associations. The bank was also
informed that legal transactions with other countries were not planned.
The bank informed the association that an account could only be opened
when she receives a copy of the identity card of all board members.
For this purpose, the bank is due to the Money Laundering Act (GwG) and the tax
ordinance (AO) obliges. The club asked us to check whether the bank's statement
is so true.

According to the GwG, banks are obliged when opening an account for a
identify the beneficial owners.150 In the case of non-profit organizations
Associations “the legal representative, business
leading shareholders or partners of the contractual partner”151 – after that had to
the bank also identifies the members of the Board of Management who are not authorized to
adorn.

Due to the excerpt from the register of associations, however, the bank already had this
the name, place of residence and date of birth of the board members. One
General identification of beneficial owners using ID cards
The law does not provide for paperwork. The identification measures have changed
 
according to the open formulation of the risk assessment in the Money Laundering Act152
always be based on the individual case. The appropriateness of the measure determines
first look at the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing
of the business relationship.153 As there is no particular risk in the present case,

150 See section 11 (1) sentence 1 in conjunction with section 3 (2) sentence 5 GwG
151 See section 3 (2) sentence 5 GwG
152 Section 11 (5) sentence 4 GwG
153 Explanatory memorandum to Section 11 (5) GwG (Bundestag printed paper 16/9038, page 38)

 
 
 
 

152

Chapter 10 Finances 10 4 A talkative bank clerk

 

 

lay - this was also not presented by the bank - after the money
laundry law, the submission of the register of associations. To the same interest
one comes into consideration when applying the regulations of the AO.

The bank was therefore not authorized to
to demand copies of ID cards from members of the stand. The bank promised us
to proceed in accordance with our legal opinion in the future.

When opening an account through an association, banks are usually allowed to
not the identity card copies of the non-authorized account managers
request members.

10.4 A talkative bank employee

 

A bank employee recommended to his customer, who had just become a widow,
to sell her property and gave her the name of a broker he knew. the
However, the customer was not interested in contact. Nevertheless, he informed
bank clerk told the broker, who was apparently a friend of his, that in a
a house owner had died on a certain street and the widow with him
almost certainly have to sell the house. The agent managed to
this information to identify the widow and make her an offer.
They then complained to us.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Since the broker was able to use the information received to inform the person concerned
easy to determine is the note from the bank employee
to transfer personal data of the persons concerned. This took place
without any legal basis154 and was therefore unlawful. The bank has
cleared and reported the incident155 as well as taking labor action against her
employees initiated. We have issued a warning to the bank
spoke.

154 See Art 6 Para 1 GDPR
155 See Art 33 GDPR

 
 

153

Banks are only allowed to contact brokers with the will of those affected
or create brokers.

10.5 Proof of carer status
 

 

opposite a bank

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

A bank asked for a support office, which does banking for a
wanted to carry out, in addition to the supervisor ID also the
judicial decision with the justification for the arrangement of supervision.156

Caregivers have related to the care
to third parties, such as authorities, doctors, banks, etc. to be legitimate
in order to be able to represent the interests of those affected. To this end
the guardianship courts issue ID cards. Such ID cards contain in addition to the
Supervisor status also information on the scope of duties of the supervisor
of the supervisor. In the specific case, the supervisor for the asset care was
constant.

While the care card does not contain any information about the reasons for the
contains the regulation of supervision is described in detail in the supervision resolution
indicates which physical and/or mental illnesses require care
make necessary. The bank requires this additional information
but not to check whether the caregiver is the person concerned
person can represent in the care of assets. The requirement of this
lay was therefore unlawful. The bank admitted the mistake and agreed to
to only have childcare cards presented in the future.

The supervisor legitimizes himself/herself towards third parties
finally by presenting the care card.

156 See § 1896 BGB

 

154

Chapter 10 Finances 11 1 Südkreuz remains a test laboratory for "intelligent" video surveillance
 

 

 

 
 

11 video surveillance
11.1 Südkreuz remains a test laboratory for
 
"intelligent" video surveillance

After the S-Bahn passengers had already been tested in 2018 by the Federal
despolizei as guinea pigs when it comes to “intelligent” video surveillance
had to serve,157 the Deutsche Bahn now also uses the station as a
search laboratory. Since June 18, 2019, Deutsche Bahn has been testing at the train station in
lin-Südkreuz so-called “intelligent” video analysis systems from three different ones
providers.

 

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The aim of Deutsche Bahn is in this second test series, with the new
Video technology to improve the reliability and punctuality of rail operations
improvements and impairments at the expense of rail customers
to reduce. To carry out test scenarios in the station area played until
At the end of 2019, volunteers created around 1,600 scenes based on a set script. There-
It should be checked whether the image analysis software used is able to
unequivocally recognize situations that affect the quality, reliability and safety
could impair the safety of rail operations.

 

 

The following scenes were selected for the test: People lying on the
Platform, unauthorized access to defined areas (e.g. track bed), gathering
movement of people (e.g. in front of escalators), movement of groups of people, people
sun count and stored objects. When choosing the test scenarios
Deutsche Bahn has oriented itself to typical situations that have occurred in the past
have led to disruptions in rail operations. Does the technology recognize such
Scenes, the respective camera image switches to the for
monitors set up for the test. As far as an event-related activation
not done, the images captured by the respective camera will be permanently stored in
changing random sequence. The test areas in the train station are over

157 JB 2018, 4 4

 

155

marked in blue and are managed by those responsible on site
cared for.

As the responsible supervisory authority for DB Station&Service AG, we have
responsible for video surveillance at Deutsche Bahn stations, which
This project was already closely monitored during the preparations in the planning phase
and pointed out the considerable risks involved in a possible survey
and processing of biometric data.158

Deutsche Bahn has promised us that in this test run
The video technology used does not contain any biometric characteristics of the persons concerned
would be collected to assess the test scenarios. For data collection and
processing and to be able to evaluate, we have the German
Bahn requested to send us a list of those characteristics that are
providers should be processed. It was evident from this list that some
of the characteristics used should only serve to determine whether it is
is a person or e.g. larger objects, shadows or animals.
Under these conditions, however, it should not lead to an identification
of right natural persons.

 

Because the test was conducted with volunteers, it was privacy-sensitive
basically harmless. For the assessment of whether such an application after
After the test can be switched to regular operation, it is very important
to what extent the application can contribute to safety at the station and to what extent
the intensity of the encroachment on the personal rights of the passengers.

Even while the test operation was being carried out, Deutsche Bahn was
is obliged to comply with data protection principles. On the one hand, this meant
Ensuring a process that is transparent for those affected and the timely
appropriate deletion of generated recordings. In addition,
provide technical and organizational measures for video technology
to reduce data protection risks. Deutsche Bahn had to
Control the implementation of these requirements as the client.

158 JB 2018, 4 4

 

156

Chapter 11 Video surveillance 11 2 Biometric access control at a large publishing house

 

During the entire test phase, Deutsche Bahn had to ensure
that no biometric data to uniquely identify natural
Individuals are collected and processed because this is carried out for
testing was not required. Already when carrying out the tests had to
the providers commissioned with the implementation are checked. The German
sche Bahn had to ensure that the commissioned companies
comply with data protection principles and check whether they have agreed technical
and organizational measures to reduce data protection risks
implement those affected. These requirements would certainly
general operation apply. Based on the test results, we will
decide whether data protection-compliant regular operation is possible. At a
possible tender, the protection of data protection should be part of the
selection criteria for providers.

11.2 Biometric access control at a

 

big publishing house

A large publishing house has been testing a biometric access con-
trolls (face recognition) as part of a pilot project. This should
employees of the company have easier access to the building. In
In this context, biometric characteristics of such persons
detected who enter a marked part of the entrance area. People that
have previously given their consent are recognized by the control system as
authorized to enter, and access is granted.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

In principle, consent in the employment relationship is only possible under very narrow conditions
conditions permissible because it is re-
according to the voluntariness of a consent is missing. This question is urgent
downright, if a biometric access control nationwide for everyone
employees should be introduced. In the present case, the employees
initially had the opportunity to register voluntarily for the pilot project.
the. Access to the workplace without biometric control is the employees
still possible without restrictions. Thus, at least during the
Test phase of the pilot project will be accepted as voluntary.

157

The processing of biometric data of those persons who do not have consent
authorization is inadmissible.159 The biometric characters
However, the system initially evaluates these people on the basis of
shear sensors, which also generates biometric features for them
160 These persons are then identified as not having access authorization.
Although the images are automatically pixelated after this process, the biometric
However, technical data of the persons concerned will be used for the purpose of data reconciliation.
still collected and processed.

In order to carry out the test in a permissible manner, it must therefore be guaranteed
that only data of those persons who are effectively included in the
have consented to the processing of biometric data. This can e.g.
be enough that the camera can only be opened by an authorized person at the push of a button
person is involved.161 In the present case, the company had certain
Edge areas of the camera image pixelated. Nevertheless, it could not
be concluded that persons who happen to enter the marked area
pass through, are also recorded biometrically. Upon our notice,
the additional partitions around the area of the face-recognizing cameras
set up to prevent accidental capture of bystanders.

 

 

We asked the company to contact us after the trial was complete
to inform the results. If regular operation is then sought
be made, it would have to be ensured in particular that participation in
of biometric access control through the possibility of an alternative
Access control remains voluntary so that corresponding consents are effective
sam can be granted.

159 See Art 9 GDPR
160 For the details and components of biometric registration, see also the position

 
 

tion paper on the biometric analysis of the DSK from April 3, 2019 (esp. S 11 f )

161 EDPB, Guidelines 3/2019 on processing of personal data through video devices,

 

sion for public consultation, adopted on 10 July 2019

158

Chapter 11 Video Surveillance 11 3 Permissibility of Dash Cams
 

 

11.3 Permissibility of Dash Cams
 

 

A Berlin-based company that offers its services to private
offers national transport, intends to expand its vehicle fleet with so-called
equip dash cams. In the present case, the cameras should be inside the
windshield behind the interior mirror to avoid
traffic in front of the vehicle and thus extensive public road
country to watch. On the one hand, the recordings should contribute to the preservation of evidence
Accidents serve, on the other hand act preventively by the vehicle drivers
are encouraged to drive with foresight and caution. To what extent
The latter can be achieved, however, is very doubtful.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The use of dash cams in vehicles that require continuous recording without cause
enable, is generally not permitted in road traffic.162 The Federal
Court of Justice (BGH) has already indicated that a data protection-compliant
set of dashcams may be possible in individual cases if due to a technical
System automatically deletes the recordings periodically after a short period of time
and is implemented on a case-by-case basis.163

Against this background, the supervisory authorities discussed under which
The prerequisites for the use of dashcams are permissible under data protection law
could be.

Ultimately, the data recorded with a dashcam must always be
telbar be overwritten and storage always with a specific
be connected to the reason for recording. Recognize (accident) sensors such as a
acceleration sensor, a collision or severe deceleration of the vehicle
tool, then a backup of the last recording interval is required
allowed. The storage over a period of 30 seconds before and
30 seconds after a recognized cause is sufficient to determine the course of an accident

 

162 DSK position paper of 21 January 2019; BGH, judgment of May 15, 2018 - VI ZR

 

233/17

163 See BGH, judgment of May 15, 2018 – VI ZR 233/17

 

159

to document. After a total video length of 60 seconds, Dash
delete cam recordings automatically.

A problem that has not yet been solved is compliance with the transparency obligation
when operating a dash cam. In the event that it is due to an accident too
longer-term storage of personal data, the
Those involved in the accident are informed of this. This also applies in principle
pull on people who are only fleetingly recorded.

The collection and storage of image data when using dashcams in the
Road traffic is only permitted if this is exclusively necessary and
occurs for a short period of no more than 60 seconds; a permanent
Liable collection and storage without cause is not permitted. the
Transparency of data processing must be guaranteed.

160

Chapter 11 Video surveillance 12 1 N26 Bank GmbH

 

12 sanctions

 

After the new data protection regulations of the EU came into force,
 
we now worked the vast majority of cases in our sanctions practice
according to the new fine regulations. The cases regularly concerned the unlawful
moderate processing of personal data.

We have imposed 56 fines totaling €14,808,400. 16
Penalty payment notices were issued by us. In four cases we have one
lawsuit filed.

When deciding on the imposition of fines and their amount
In each individual case, we use the discretionary criteria of Art. 83 Para. 2 DS-
GMO checked. In particular, the specific circumstances regarding the type, severity and
duration of the respective infringement. In addition, among other things, the
Consequences of the respective violation and the measures taken by those responsible
measures have been taken to avert or avert the consequences of the violation
mitigate, considered. Helpful orientation is provided by the conference of the
independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK)
adopted fine concept164.

 

12.1 N26 Bank Ltd

 

The online bank of N26 Bank GmbH illegally ran a so-called "black
list" of former customers, which is why we have to pay a fine of
have imposed 50,000 euros.

For the purpose of preventing money laundering, the young company had
and surnames of former customers on a "black list"
set, regardless of whether they were actually suspected of money laundering
As a result, those affected were unable to open new accounts at the bank.

164 See 1 4

 

161

N26 Bank GmbH accepted the fine and vis-à-vis our authorities
announced a series of measures to address previous organizational shortcomings
to eliminate and thereby protect the data of their customers
to enhance. In particular, the company promised in this regard
to extensively increase and train its staff in the area of data protection.

When implementing legal requirements for data
processing, e.g. in this case to prevent money laundering, strictly on their
range and may only process data to the permitted extent
make. Otherwise there is a risk of heavy fines.

 

12.2 Delivery Hero Germany GmbH

 

The data of customers of the delivery service of Delivery Hero Ger-
many GmbH were stored for many years, even if they were for years
had not ordered anything. This violated the GDPR and was punished with a fine
fined.

The fines were imposed in two notices. In a fine notice
we have 18 fines for violating the GDPR totaling
including 120,000 euros imposed. In another decision against the delivery service
we have ten fines according to the old data protection regulations in
A total of 58,000 euros. Including the fees
the fines totaled 195,307 euros. The fines were issued in two
because some of the violations were still effective after the GDPR came into effect
data protection law was to be assessed. Decisive for the question of whether a
The time of the offense is to be assessed according to the old or new legal situation.

 

With the fines, we have various data protection violations of the
company. The majority of cases concerned non-compliance with the
Rights of data subjects such as the right to information about the processing of their own
data, the right to delete the data and the right to object. To
According to our findings, Delivery Hero Germany GmbH had
accounts of former customers are not deleted, although the affected
have not been on the delivery service platform for a long time – in one case since 2008

162

Chapter 12 Sanctions 12 2 Delivery Hero Germany GmbH

 

of the company had been active. Former users also had each other
complained about unsolicited commercial emails from the company. In further
cases, the company granted to the complainants
did not provide the requested self-disclosures or only after we as supervisory
had intervened.

Delivery Hero Germany GmbH informed us of some of the violations
technical errors or employee mistakes. Due to the high
number of repeated violations, however, we assumed fundamental structural
tural organizational problems. Although we give the company multiples
hints they had given were not sufficient for a long period of time
Measures have been implemented that ensure the due fulfillment of the rights of
Affected could ensure. We have the measures taken by the company
company have been taken to avert the consequences of the violation or
mitigated, taken into account accordingly in our fine notices.

The Delivery Hero brands Lieferheld, Pizza.de and foodora were launched on April 1st
Taken over by the Dutch group Takeway.com in 2019. the dem
The violations underlying the procedure were all prior to this acquisition
committed. The new owner accepted the fine notices and none
appealed.

Anyone who works with personal data as a digital company needs
a functioning data protection management system. data from customers
Customers should only be stored for as long as they use the online
bot also regularly avail. That not only helps fines too
avoid, but also strengthens the trust and satisfaction of customers
shaft.

163

12.3 Deutsche Wohnen SE

 

The administrative offenses165 committed by Deutsche Wohnen SE were
sanctioned by our authorities with fines in the millions.

The imposition of fines of this amount for the violations in the period between
May 2018 and March 2019 was mandatory because the GDPR obliges the
Supervisors to ensure that fines in each individual case not only
proportionate but also effective and dissuasive.

The starting point for the assessment of the fines was, among other things, the
targeted the company's previous year's sales. For the specific determination of
We then calculated the amount of the fine, taking into account all debit and credit
the legal criteria166 are used for the aspects:

 

The fact that Deutsche Wohnen SE had the objectionable
dete archive structure had deliberately created and the data concerned via a
have been processed in an unlawful manner for a long period of time.

To mitigate the fine, however, we took into account that the company
quite the first measures with the aim of cleaning up the unlawful access
seized the position and formally worked well with us. Also that dem
Companies do not abusive access to the inadmissibly stored
Data could be proven, we took into account reducing the fine.

In addition to sanctioning the structural violation, we imposed on the
Deutsche Wohnen SE fines due to the inadmissible storage of personal
data obtained from tenants in 15 specific individual cases.

The fine decision has not yet become final, as Deutsche Wohnen
SE has lodged an objection to the fine notice.

165 See also 9 1
166 Article 83 (2) GDPR

 
 

164

Chapter 12 Sanctions 12 4 NPD Regional Association Berlin

 

Data cemeteries are not only inadmissible and subject to fines, but also increase
also the risk of improper access. Therefore, companies should
urgently check their data archiving for compatibility with the GDPR.

12.4 NPD State Association Berlin

 

We have fined the Berlin state association of the NPD in the amount of
6,000 euros for unlawful publication of personal data
fixed.

The state association already published in February 2018 on its website
seite a map of facilities for asylum seekers created with Google Maps
in Berlin with the title: "An overview of the focal points of foreign infiltration in our
our city". Each location had names, phone and cell numbers as well
E-mail addresses of people working there are attached.

An accompanying text explained that everyone can now find out about
"what interesting uninvited guests are in your neighborhood,
who is responsible for the foreign infestation of our homeland, who is financially responsible for the
Hundreds of Thousands of Migrants Profited and Who to Contact
if you want to make a complaint directly on site". All data came from
from public sources. Responsible for the Google Maps map service
Company Google indicated that the card due to violations of their own
having policies locked. However, it was still easily possible to
read out the code and thus the personal data stored in the card
continue to be visible. As a result, the illegal condition continued.

The collection, processing and use of personal data is only permitted
sig, insofar as this is permitted by law or the persons concerned have consented.
There was no consent from the persons concerned. The usage
was also not permitted by law.167 According to this, the processing of data would only be
then lawful, provided that the responsible body has legitimate interests

167 See Art 6 Para 1 Sentence 1 lit f GDPR

 

165

sen pursued and a weighing of interests would show that no protection worthy
The interests of the data subjects prevail. Persons in the field of
However, those who are active in refugee aid have a considerable interest in that
not publish their data on a website with xenophobic content
(“uninvited guests”, “foreign invasion of our homeland”). The data of
affected persons were specifically assigned to anti-refugee
summarized and made visible. The legitimate concerns of the affected
here clearly outweigh any interests of the NPD
in the publication of this data.

The Berlin state association of the NPD has lodged an objection to our decision
laid, so that the competent court can now make the final decision on this
will meet.

The term "processing" within the meaning of the GDPR includes any use
processing of personal data, including collecting and summarizing
and publishing publicly available data.

166

Chapter 12 Sanctions 13 1 23 Broadcasting Amendment State Treaty

 

 

13 Telecommunications and
 

 

media

13.1 From the one-off data transfer
 

 

 

for regular data synchronization –
 
23. Broadcasting Amendment State Treaty

 

 

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

With the 23rd Broadcasting Amendment State Treaty, the originally
2022 all scheduled transmission of complete population register data reconciliation
be carried out for four years. In addition, restrictions on the rights of
data subjects on information168 and information169 provided.

The first complete comparison of the reporting
register data with the data of the broadcasting fee payers was considerable
data protection concerns.170 The Conference of Independent
Data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) had their
At that time, they only thought partially and only because they were only
a one-off comparison of registration data should be carried out in order to
Adjustment of the fee model to an apartment-related broadcasting fee
facilitate. Even at this point, however, there were doubts about the
assurance of the legislature that this is a one-off process
would delve. These doubts were already confirmed in 2015, when the law
lender decided to carry out a new “one-off” comparison of registration data.171

 
 
 

168 See Art 13 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
169 See Art 15 GDPR
170 See the resolution of the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
Federal and state authorities (DSK) of October 11, 2010 (https://www datenschutz-berlin
de/fleadmin/user_upload/pdf/publikationen/DSK/2010/2010-DSK-Systemwechsel_
Radio fnancing pdf) and JB 2010, 13 4

171 JB 2015, 15 4

 

167

The draft for the 23rd Amendment to the Interstate Treaty on Broadcasting that has now been presented
even a regular repetition of the full reporting data comparison in
a four-year cycle. This project represents a disproportionate
Intervention in the informational self-determination and is in conflict with the
principles of data minimization and necessity.172

In the case of a complete comparison of reporting data, personal
son-related data of persons transmitted to the broadcasters who
are not liable to pay contributions at all because they either live in an apartment,
for which a license fee has already been paid by other people, or because
they are exempt from the obligation to contribute. In addition, data from all those
gene residents collected and processed, who are already at the
State broadcasting corporation are registered and regularly pay their contributions.
It is particularly relevant in these cases that the planned reporting date
comparison requests even more personal data than the contribution number
must notify the broadcaster when registering
(e.g. doctoral degree and marital status).173
related data are transmitted to the broadcasters that contribute to the
collection are not necessary at all.

 

The broadcasters justify the need for regular reporting
data comparison with the fact that without this regular measure, there will be a
"erosion" of the stock of contributors would come. Especially when
from a jointly used apartment, the person who
pays the radio fee for this apartment, moves out or dies and the rest
Residents of the apartment not as prescribed at the
register with the relevant broadcasting company, contributions were made for these apartments
away.

The broadcasters themselves assume that a complete reporting
comparison ultimately leads to an additional,

172 Art 5 para 1 lit a and c, Art 6 para 1 GDPR
173 See Section 8 (4) of the Interstate Broadcasting Agreement (RBStV) for the list of required

 
 

common login data

168

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 1 23 Broadcasting Amendment State Treaty

 

 

permanent registration of contributors.174 In the case of a regular
complete comparison of registration data would thus be disproportionately
the informational self-determination right of the persons concerned
grabbed. This is also not inconsistent with the fact that the state broadcasting corporations
own information through the second complete comparison of registration data in the year
2018 additional premium income in the upper double-digit million
have made rich.

It is true that the reports presented by the state broadcasters
cases actually resulted in the loss of income under certain circumstances
men can come. However, this problem should be specific to these cases
tailored measures are countered (which in principle also include the
creation of new information and processing powers) instead
simply a transmission of the complete database of the residents' registration
offices in relation to all adult citizens to the state
to consolidate broadcasting corporations.

The planned regulations also take into account the standards of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) insufficient: Due to
the priority of application of European regulations, national data
protection regulations can be based on an opening clause of the GDPR.
The media privilege from Art. 85 Para. 2 DS-GVO is out of the question here, since the
Data processing for the purpose of collecting broadcast contributions is not included in the
scope of this standard falls.

 

In the case of regulations based on the opening clause according to Art. 6 Para. 2 and Para. 3 i. V. m.
Art. 6 (1) lit. e GDPR are supported, among other things, the principles of data
minimization and necessity to be considered. After that, member states may
Regulations for the performance of duties are introduced in the public
It is of interest if they specify the GDPR, but not its limits
exceed. Regulations that refer to this opening clause must
consequently stay within the framework specified by the GDPR. In the proposed
In this respect, there are considerable concerns with regard to the current regulation
the principles of data minimization and necessity. The DSK has

174 Evaluation report of the federal states pursuant to Section 14 (9a) RBStV of March 20, 2019

 

169

asked the legislature in a decision to
not to introduce a complete comparison of registration data.175

The chairman of the DSK 2019 also acknowledged the concerns of the supervisory authorities in
the non-public oral hearing of the Broadcasting Commission of the
the one presented.

Regardless of this, the heads of government of the
At their conference on June 6, 2019, countries presented a draft of the 23rd broadcast amendment
interstate treaty, in which the complete regular reporting
ten adjustment is still included. However, a regulation was added
according to the "to maintain the proportionality between contribution justice
and the protection of personal data" a comparison of registration data should not take place,
if the commission to determine the financial needs of broadcasters
(KEF) states that "the database is sufficiently up-to-date". This assessment
the KEF should be “taking into account the development of the contribution
mens and other factors”. With this, the above mentioned constitutional and
However, data protection concerns are not sufficiently taken into account.
Rather, the supplement creates an additional constitutional problem,
by making the decision to carry out a complete registration data
comparison is delegated to the KEF without any criteria –
see the development of the contribution revenue - for this decision
to hand over. Such significant decisions in relation to the
processing of personal data of all adult residents
residents of Germany, however, must be made by the legislature itself (legislative
keep).

At the same time, the aforementioned draft also sees restrictions in other areas
of the rights of data subjects under the GDPR. In particular,
the information rights of the persons concerned176 are restricted. Instead of
as before, generally obliged to provide information with individually defined exceptions

 

175 DSK resolution of April 26, 2019: “Planned introduction of a regular
Complete registration data comparison for the purpose of collecting the broadcasting fee
stop" (https://www datenschutz-berlin de/fleadmin/user_upload/pdf/publikatio-
nen/DSK/2019/2019-DSK-Decision-Meldedatenabgleich_Broadcast contribution pdf)

176 See Art 15 GDPR

 

170

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 1 23 Broadcasting Amendment State Treaty

 

 

to be, the rule-exception relationship should be reversed in the future and the
State broadcasting corporations according to the new regulations only with regard to certain
correct and finally listed in the draft data177 information
have to share. This planned restriction of the right to information is compatible with the
Provisions of the DS-GVO not compatible: Art. 23 Para. 1 DS-GVO contains a
final list of the reasons for which the national legislature concerned
entitlements beyond the extent provided for in the GDPR itself
can know. This also includes the “protection of other important goals of the general
public interest of the Union or a member state, in particular one
important economic or financial interest of the Union or of a member
member state, for example in the areas of currency, budget and taxation as well as in the area
of public health and social security”.178 On this exception
the legislator wants to support the intended restrictions. The official
Justification for the draft noted: "The regulations made
ensure that the information obligations of the state broadcasting corporations achieve the goal
of data processing or the fulfillment of the public interest pursued with it
teresses.”179 If this were a realistic danger, they would have to
corresponding empirical values from the application of the currently existing ones
The state broadcasters are obliged to provide information. However, this is
not the case - there are no indications that this obligation to provide information
ten the protection of other important objectives of general public interest
of the Union or a member state would have endangered, as is a prerequisite for
is a restriction according to Art. 23 Para. 1 lit. e GDPR. In this respect, there are
doubts that the proposed restriction "removes the essence of the basic
respects rights and fundamental freedoms and in a democratic society
constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure”, as stated in Art. 23 para. 1
DS-GVO is required, and thus in the compatibility of the intended
Restriction of the right to information of the persons concerned with European law.

 

177 These are from the contributors themselves to the
data reported by state broadcasters, information on any exemption
from the obligation to contribute or to reduce the broadcasting fee, as well as the
Bank details and the body that transmitted the respective data

178 Art 23 Para 1 lit e GDPR
179 Official justification for No. 6 of the draft, p. 7

 
 

171

In addition, data “the
are only stored because they are due to legal or statutory
ger storage regulations may not be deleted or exclusively
serve the purposes of data backup or data protection control". The mountain
liner Data Protection Act (BlnDSG) contains a similar provision180; already theirs
Compatibility with the provisions of the GDPR is doubtful. However is
the regulation there is linked to further requirements: According to this, the
granting the future also require a disproportionate effort and
processing of the data in question by means of suitable technical and organizational
Satorial measures must be excluded. Such additional prerequisites
The draft of the 23rd Amendment to the Interstate Treaty on Broadcasting does not contain any regulations.
Through the regulation now provided there, the information rights of the
affected persons via the otherwise for public bodies of the state of Berlin
further restricted beyond the applicable level without there being a need for this
is visible. This regulation of the draft should therefore be deleted without replacement
the. As a provision contrary to European law, it would not be applicable anyway.

It should be positively emphasized that the previous "landlord information" for rented
ments181 deleted and the purchase of address data from private individuals in
Address trading is to be expressly excluded in the future. This authorization
From the point of view of data protection, information and their
Deletion is to be welcomed. However, it must not be overlooked that
the planned regular complete comparison of registration data, a far
comprehensive instrument of data collection, which is very dubious in terms of data protection
exercise is to be created that satisfies the practical need for a landlord
information and the purchase of private addresses can be omitted anyway.

The legislature should refrain from requiring a regular full reporting
to introduce data comparison, since the planned regulations are fundamentally
there are additional constitutional concerns and the standards of the DS-
GMOs are not sufficiently taken into account. Restrictions on the Rights of
affected persons, such as the right to information and access, may only

180 See Section 24 (1) sentence 3 BlnDSG
181 See Section 9(2) and (3) RBStV

 
 

172

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 2 Decision of the European Court of Justice on "Planet 49"

 

take place within the framework provided for in Art. 23 DS-GVO. The planned EU
Restriction of the right to information that violates rape law should therefore be removed from the
Draft of the state broadcasting contribution agreement to be deleted.

13.2 Decision of the European

 

Court of Justice on "Planet 49"

For several years, courts have been hearing about a lawsuit brought by the Federal
Association of Consumer Centers and Consumer Associations (vzbv) against the
Sweepstakes provider "Planet 49". This had in a sweepstakes offer in
integrated a consent box for tracking cookies, which
was already ticked. He also settled into the terms of use for the
Sweepstakes compulsorily the right to pass on data of affected persons
to a large number of third-party companies. The European
Court of Justice (ECJ) has now ruled that this practice violates applicable data
breaches data protection law.182

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

The ECJ first made it clear that both under the conditions of data
Electronic Communications Protection Directive (e-Privacy Directive for short)183
 
as well as according to the DS-GVO an effective consent to data processing
does not exist if the consent has been given by a preset check box
it is explained that the users will opt out of refusing their consent
(so-called opt-out).

The legal requirements for setting cookies and similar technologies
gies184 apply regardless of whether the data stored in the end device
information retrieved from it is personal data
or not.

 
 
 

182 CJEU, decision of 1 October 2019 – C-673/17
183 Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council
184 Art 5 para 3, Art 2 sentence 2 lit f of Directive 2002/58/EC in conjunction with Art 2 lit h of the
never 95/46/EG of the European Parliament and of the Council or with Art 6 Para. 1 lit a,
Art 4 No. 11 of the GDPR

173

Finally, the court finds that Article 5(3) of Directive 2002/58/EC
is to be construed as relating to the information provided by a service provider
has to give the user of a website, also information on the functional duration
of the cookies and the indication of which recipients or categories of
Recipients get access to the cookies.

The decision of the ECJ is of great importance beyond the individual case: So
In its decision, the court also specifies the requirements that must be met by a
consent are to be provided and makes it clear that any consent is an active
of the users presupposes that without any doubt a
mood is signaled and is voluntary. This is (finally) supreme court
determined that the frequently encountered design of offers on the Internet
net, according to which the mere continued use of the offer constitutes consent in
in terms of data protection law, is unlawful.

The configurations that are also widespread are therefore also unlawful
in Internet offers where consent has already been given in advance
crossed boxes are to be obtained.

With the decision of the ECJ, there could also be movement in the already since 2009
by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWi).
Implementation of the provisions of Art. 5 Para. 3 of the previously applicable E-Principle
vacy guideline185: A press spokesman for the ministry already said so
after the publication of the Opinion of the Advocate General in the
ren before the ECJ in September announced that one after the decision
of the ECJ also wanted to "clearly clarify" the legal situation in Germany
and that corresponding changes to the Telemedia Act (TMG)

 

185 An EU directive must be transposed into national law; an EU regulation
applies directly without national implementation Therefore, the regulations of the previous
gene E-Privacy Directive to be implemented by a national law which is currently
The new E-Privacy Regulation currently being negotiated at European level would
against, if passed, will apply immediately in all EU member states

174

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 2 Decision of the European Court of Justice on "Planet 49"

 

be in preparation. A draft law is to be presented in autumn 2019
be laid.186 To the best of our knowledge, this has not yet happened.

The intention of the BMWi is to be welcomed. The DSK had already in April 2018 in
their position on the applicability of the TMG for non-public bodies
from May 25, 2018 (effective date of the DS-GVO) pointed out that
there is an urgent need for amendment with regard to the TMG and the
succeeded the 4th section of the TMG after the entry into force of the DS-GVO
are applicable.187

The setting and retrieval of cookies or other information contained in a
end device of a data subject are stored, is in many cases a
approval required. The Wi-
the appeals process is not sufficient. A data protection consent
requires active behavior on the part of the user, which without
the doubt signals consent and must actually be voluntary.
Pre-filled checkboxes or a pure further use of an offer
do not represent consent. Regarding the mandatory information, the website
driving about in their privacy policy must also include the
How long cookies last and whether third parties have access to these cookies
can get. Persons responsible for Internet offers in Berlin are called
fen to implement these requirements in their offers immediately, insofar as
this has not already happened.

 

 

186 See report by netzpolitik org eV of September 11, 2019: “Economic
rium wants to propose new rules for online tracking in autumn”, https://netzpolitik
org/2019/Ministry-of-Economy-wants-new-rules-for-online-trading-in-autumn-
cking-suggest/

 

 

187 Position determination of the DSK of April 26, 2018 "On the applicability of the TMG for
non-public bodies from May 25, 2018 (https://www datenschutz-berlin de/f-
leadmin/user_upload/pdf/publikationen/DSK/2018/2018-DSK-position determination_
TMG pdf); cf. also the guidance provided by the supervisory authorities for providers of tele-
media from March 2019 (https://www datenschutz-berlin de/fleadmin/user_upload/
pdf/orientation aids/2019-OH-Provider_Telemedia pdf)

 

175

13.3 Regulatory Guidance
 

 

for telemedia offers

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Which third-party content is included on websites under which conditions
may be, which range measurement and tracking measures and when
are permissible has been difficult to assess in practice. To be specific
the positioning of the DSK from April 2018188 for the processing of personal
data obtained by telemedia providers after the GDPR came into force
 
In March 2019, the DSK published a detailed orientation guide for telemedia
bids (restricted to non-public bodies) passed.189

After consultation with affected trade associations and companies,
The enclosed guidance initially makes it clear that with the entry into force of the
DS-GVO the data protection regulations of the TMG in the non-public
Area no longer applicable due to the application priority of the GDPR
the.
 

It also contains extensive detailed explanations
Lawfulness of the processing of personal usage data according to the
DS-GVO by providers of telemedia. Because these process
ten usage data for a large number of
purposes190, including to make the offer user-friendly and
to display additional individual functionalities (e.g. the shopping cart function)
to provide content from third-party providers (e.g. a video or
a map service), for IT security measures, for range measurement and

 

 

 

 
 
 

188 See footnote 187 and JB 2018, 12 3
189 See footnote 187
190 As far as the processing of usage data for the fulfillment of the respective (user
ment) contract is mandatory, it is in accordance with Art. 6 para. lit b DS-GVO
admissible This permission was granted with regard to the discussions on
European level on the question of the applicability of Art 6 Para 1 lit b DS-GVO im
 
Related to the Provision of Online Services in the Guidance
 
However, not discussed meanwhile, the European Data Protection Board
guidelines adopted for this purpose, which can be found at https://edpb europa eu/our-work-tools/
our-documents/smernice/guidelines-22019-processing-personal-data-under-ar-
ticle-61b_en can be retrieved

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

176

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 3 Guidance from the supervisory authorities for telemedia offerings

 

statistical analyses, for advertising purposes and much more m. Depending on the purpose and
the technical design are partly personal
data passed on to third parties. For each of these processing operations, the
Provider ensure that there is a legal basis for this
exists.

In the orientation guide, the requirements of the practically relevant
Permissible facts of the balancing of interests191 and the consent192
referenced:

Many providers base the processing of usage data on their legitimate interests
Interest according to Art. 6 Para. 1 lit. f GDPR. However, it should be noted that the
Regulation in addition to a legitimate interest of the provider
requires that "not the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms
of the data subject (i.e. the user, author’s note) who
protection of personal data prevail”.

 

The orientation guide therefore contains information for the design of this interface
essential consideration, i.e. which interests of those responsible as legitimate
interests i. s.d. provision are to be considered, such as the necessity of data processing
processing is checked to protect legitimate interests and what is involved in the
Weighing against the interests, fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms of those affected
persons must be taken into account in the specific individual case.

Insofar as this balancing of interests for a specific usage data processing
fails in favor of the users concerned, the offer must
terin or the provider of the telemedia offer regularly before processing
a self-determined and informed consent193 from the respective user
obtain it or refrain from processing the relevant usage data.

Also the requirements for self-determined and informed consent
 
are explained in more detail in the orientation guide:

191 Art 6 Para 1 lit f GDPR
192 Art 6 Para 1 lit a GDPR
193 See Art 7, Art 4 No. 11 GDPR

 
 
 

177

A self-determined and informed consent requires, in particular,
that users have a real choice whether to give consent on the basis of
position of comprehensible and transparent information about the intended
consent to the data processing or not. In addition, the consent of
be explained to them by a clear affirmative action. silent
genes, pre-ticked boxes or inactivity (and continued use) are sufficient here-
for not.194 Many so-called cookie banners that can be found on the Internet give
pretends to represent consent. They often meet the requirements
Unfortunately, the GDPR does not.

If a required consent is not properly granted, the respective
regular data processing does not take place. Consent is then required, for example
lich if the behavior of the website visitors in detail
is understood and recorded, such as when keyboard inputs, mouse or
Swipe movements are recorded and analyzed. Classified as admissible
on the other hand, it can happen if a website operator uses a range
recording and the number of visitors per
Page that collects device types and language settings.

We keep receiving complaints and information from affected people
to the inadmissible usage data processing by Berlin providers
and providers of telemedia. We are examining these and have already
gene responsible initiated.

In particular: integration of third-party content
Many providers of telemedia bind internal
maintained by third parties for various purposes. These include, to name just a few
to name particularly prominent examples:
• advertising networks,
 
• fonts,
 
• videos,
 
• map services,
 

194 See EG 32 on the GDPR and 13 2

 

178

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 3 Guidance from the supervisory authorities for telemedia offerings

 

 
 
• Social plugins such as the Facebook “Like” button and similar

Buttons of other companies as well

 
• News services such as Twitter.

 

 

This integration of third-party content is regularly associated with the transmission of personal
related usage data of the users to these third parties. Also
a legal basis is required for this. In many cases, the providers go into their
Privacy statements assume that this transfer readily available
the provisions of Article 6 (1) (f) GDPR can be supported.

In many cases it can be assumed that those responsible
a legitimate interest - including commercial interests - in the
transfer of the personal data of the data subjects.
However, those responsible for telemedia should be aware that
this is only the first part of the legality check and the result of the
if required balancing of interests in the transmission of usage
data to third parties will in many cases turn out to be to their detriment, so that
for the corresponding data processing, as a rule, the consent of the
met is required. With regard to their accountability,195 employees should
bidders therefore only integrate third-party content into their website
if they have checked and documented in advance that through the integration
triggered data processing is completely lawful.

Operators of Internet offerings that contain inadmissible third-party content
not only have to reckon with orders under data protection law,
they should also take into account that the GDPR applies high standards for such violations
threatened with fines.

Providers of telemedia should change their usage data
check work immediately. Anyone who uses functions that require consent
require, must either obtain this consent in accordance with the law or the
remove the respective function. The illegal transmission of usage data
t to third parties may, among other things, result in the imposition of a fine.

 

195 See Art 5 Para 2 GDPR

 

179

13.4 Use of Google Analytics & Co. for

 

 
 
range measurement

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Many website operators use tools to
width measurement on. Among the particularly popular applications for the rich
The “Google Analytics” tool counts for distance measurement. This tool can
but only with the consent of the users concerned
be used in accordance with the law. The granting of a right of objection
is no longer sufficient for legally compliant use.

The use of Google Analytics has the supervisory authorities for data protection
already employed in the past.196 He was among those then given
Conditions in many cases possible without consent, in particular because
because he refers to the regulations for order data processing from the then
Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) could be supported and thus for the
No legal basis was required for the transfer of the data to Google Inc.

However, order processing is ruled out if the contractor
or the contractor also uses the data for its own purposes.

 

However, this is exactly the case with the terms of use now used by Google Inc.
ments the case: It is made clear there that Google Inc. also uses the data for its own
purposes.197 According to Art. 28 Para. 10 DS-GVO, this is the
The provider of Google Analytics is therefore not (any longer) about a processor,
even if this continues to refer to the contract as order processing.

Under these changed conditions, the integration of Google Analytics
by the website operator in terms of data protection law, a transmission
communication to the operator of Google Analytics, which requires a legal basis.
According to the provisions of the GDPR and their interpretation by the DSK in the

 
 

196 See JB 2011, 12 2, p 170 ff
197 Terms of Use for Google Analytics (https://marketingplatform google com/
about/analytics/terms/de/, as of June 17, 2019, number 6) in conjunction with Google data protection
clarification (https://policies google com/privacy, as of October 15, 2019, item "Measurement
performance")

180

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and media 13 4 Use of Google Analytics & Co for range measurement
 

 

 

Guidance for providers of telemedia198 comes for this transmission
of usage data, only the consent of the persons concerned is taken into account.

As already mentioned in another context199, consent is independent
always dependent on the involvement of processors or third parties
also necessary if the behavior of the website visitors
-Visitors are traced and recorded in detail during a range measurement-
can be drawn, for example when keyboard inputs, mouse or swipe movements
gene are recorded.

On the other hand, it can be regarded as permissible without consent if
a website operator carries out a range measurement and for this the
Number of visitors per page, the devices and the language
positions, even if a processor takes care of this.

The consent must be given in a way that the affected
fene person clearly indicates that they consent to the processing of them
relevant personal data agrees. So she has to
voluntarily and unequivocally as a declaration of intent in the form of a declaration
tion or any other unequivocal confirmatory action and
although for the specific case and in an informed manner.200 In addition to this
the GDPR makes it clear that silence, boxes that have already been ticked or omissions
activity of the data subject are not consent.201 This clear evaluation of the
legislator, the ECJ also expressly stated in the "Planet49" dispute
confirmed.202

In particular, the use of Google Analytics can no longer be based on the
by the then Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
 
(BlnBDI) in March 2013 published “Notes for website operators with
Based in Berlin, who use Google Analytics”. On this

198 See 13 3
199 See 13 3
200 Art 4 No. 11 GDPR
201 EC 32 GDPR
202 See 13 2

 
 
 
 
 

181

We already announced the situation in November 2019 in a press release.
assigned.203

Nevertheless, we always ask when checking Internet offers
states that Google Analytics and other services are used there without
the necessary consent of the user is obtained. we love
Accordingly, there are also a large number of complaints from those affected and from
Information about the inadmissible integration of Google Analytics and similar
services.

Operators of websites that use Google Analytics and similar
services should immediately check their offers to see whether the
legal requirements for legally compliant use are met. who
uses functions that require consent, either consent must
obtain or remove the function.

For the legally compliant use of Google Analytics, the consent of
Website visitors required. operators and
Operators of websites that continue to use Google Analytics without being legally compliant
use consent, expose themselves to the risk of regulatory measures
measures, which may include the imposition of fines.

 

13.5 "Facebook Custom Audience" list relationship
 
drive – no use without consent!

The so-called "list procedure" for "Facebook Custom Audience" enables companies
companies (mainly operators of online shops), their
To allow customers to advertise on Facebook in a targeted manner, insofar as these
use Facebook at the same time.

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

203 BlnBDI press release of November 14, 2019 (https://www datenschutz-ber-

 

lin de/fleadmin/user_upload/pdf/pressemitteilungen/2019/20191114-PM-Analysis_
tracking tools pdf)

182

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and media 13 5 "Facebook Custom Audience" list procedure - No use without consent!

 

 

 

 

For this purpose, the advertising company creates a list of data from its customers
and customers, such as email address and/or phone number. This
Data is "hashed" (i.e. one-way encrypted, using the
function on a specific date or series of dates always the same
results) and then transferred to the company's Facebook account.
gen. There the data is processed by Facebook with the data that has also been hashed
compared to his own customers. Similar results at
the application of the function then show that the respective person is both customer
din or customer of the "registering" company as well as Facebook.
On this basis, the registering company can then
advertisers and customers on Facebook for its products or services
gene or its existing customers from advertising campaigns
for its products or services on Facebook. This
may be for very specific audiences based on the
filtered out on Facebook via the characteristics known to each person
can become.

According to the provisions of the DS-GVO, the use of the list procedure is only
possible on the basis of an effective consent of the persons concerned.

The Bavarian
Higher Administrative Court.204 The court confirms this decision
a decision of the Administrative Court of Bayreuth205, in which, among other things, the following
Findings on the data protection-compliant use of the “Facebook Custom
Audience” list procedure meets:

 

• “Hashed” email addresses are personal data because “hashing”
 

does not represent anonymization.

• Passing on the "hashed" e-mail addresses to Facebook for the "Face
 
book Custom Audience" listing process is a transfer to third parties and
no order data processing.

204 VGH Munich, decision of September 26, 2018 - 5 CS 18 1157
205 VG Bayreuth, decision of May 8, 2018 - B 1 S 18 105

 
 

183

• A balancing of interests206 can also prevent the transmission of the "hashed"
 
E-mail addresses do not justify. The legitimate interest of the responsible
literal part of the transmission of "hashed" e-mail address data
also be maintained without disproportionate effort, if in individual cases
consent of the persons concerned, e.g. B. as part of an order process
is fetched. The interest in the transmission of the data for advertising purposes
the prevailing personal rights of the persons concerned that are worthy of protection
opposite.

The explanations of the two courts refer to the legal situation
Entry into force of the GDPR. However, the basics of the above decisions
also be transferred to the legal situation in the following period.

As a result, the use of the "Facebook Custom Audience" list
procedure only with the prior effective consent of the persons concerned
allowed.

We have received complaints from data subjects against various companies
that used the "Facebook Custom Audience" list method in the past
have used without the consent of the persons concerned or even this
keep doing. We are in the process of investigating these individual cases. be there
we also initiate regulatory actions including the
Consider imposing fines, particularly if the affected
fenen company after reference to the legal situation the use of the "Facebook
Custom Audience" list procedure without the consent of the data subjects
continue.

The use of the "Facebook Custom Audience" list method is only
sis of a prior legally effective consent of the persons concerned
allowed. Granting a right to object is not sufficient. offering
providers who use the "Facebook Custom Audience" list procedure
without the required consent must be approved by supervisory authorities
cal measures.

206 See Section 28 Paragraph 1 Sentence 1 No. 2 BDSG old version

 

184

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 6 Facebook Fan Pages: Trials and Developments

 

13.6 Facebook fan pages: exams and
 

 

developments

Anyone who operates a Facebook fan page processes personal data in
joint responsibility with Facebook207 In order to check whether the resulting
compliance with legal obligations, we had various at the end of 2018
Testing procedures initiated against fan page operators. In the meantime it has
Federal Administrative Court (BVerwG) decided that a supervisory authority
may prohibit the operation of a Facebook fan page, in particular without
to take action against Facebook as soon as possible.208 The ECJ also has its case law
evolved into shared responsibility. It is now supreme
confirms that even when using social plug-ins such as Facebook's Like button
there is joint responsibility.209

 

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

As a result of the ECJ judgment on the joint responsibility of Facebook
and Facebook fan page operators, we have a number of test procedures
towards offices of the state administration, political parties and companies
and organizations initiated, in which we are first concerned with the determination of the
The situation went.210 The DSK confirmed its position on responsibility
and accountability for Facebook fan pages and regulatory
chen jurisdiction211 our concerns.

Three of the political parties we wrote to refused to provide information
with reference to our alleged lack of jurisdiction: you would have with Facebook
agreed that the Irish Data Protection Authority will be the lead
authority and thus the sole contact for fan page requests.
driving. However, this view is already wrong at the outset, because the GDPR

 
 

207 ECJ, judgment of June 5, 2018 − C-210/16 (Wirtschaftsakademie Schleswig-Holstein)
208 BVerwG, judgment of September 11, 2019 - 6 C 15 18 (Business Academy Schleswig-
 
Holstein) The decision was made on the old legal situation under the Data Protection
line (Directive 95/46/EG), but essential statements are based on the new legal
position transferrable

209 CJEU, judgment of 29 July 2019 − C-40/17 (Fashion ID)
210 JB 2018, 1 7
211 https://www data protection conference online de/media/dskb/20190405_positioning_

 
 
 

facebook_fanpages pdf

185

concept of the lead supervisory authority only if the main
Establishment of a controller decision-making and enforcement authority
vis-à-vis the other branches with regard to the processing of personal
of personal data.212 The notion of the lead supervisory authority
means that there is a contact person on the part of the agencies involved
There are supervisory authorities – namely the lead supervisory authority – that are responsible for everyone
supervisory authorities is binding. It also includes, however, that there are pages
of those responsible there is only one contact person - namely the main office
approval – which is the decision of the supervisory authorities in all branches
can implement. This 1:1 ratio, which is mandatory by law,
is not in the case of Facebook fan pages.

 

The Article 29 Working Party, i.e. the independent European working
group, which before the entry into force of the DS-GVO at European level with the
protection of privacy and personal data
consider that under certain conditions could be shared
 
Those responsible also contractually define the lead supervisory authority.213
We consider the wording there to be misleading and rely on European
technical level in the now newly established European Data Protection Board
(EDSA) for a correction.

For our testing procedures in matters of Facebook fan pages, this question is
However, not decisive, because the established conditions for a determination
tion of a lead supervisory authority by jointly responsible persons
are not present in any case. This would require that the
as a head office within the meaning of the regulations on the lead
branch of a jointly responsible authority applicable to the supervisory authority (here:
Facebook) would have the authority for all joint controllers (all)
to make and implement decisions about data processing. Facebook
however, is not entitled to decide whether the fan page operators use their
run the fan page at all, nor whether they (after recent changes)
changes by Facebook only minor) configuration options
or use the so-called page insights statistics, which provide more detailed statistical information

212 See Art 55, Art 56 Para 1, Art 4 No 16 lit b, Art 60 Para 10 GDPR
213 Article 29 Working Party, Working Paper 244, p. 8 f

 
 

186

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 6 Facebook Fan Pages: Trials and Developments

 

provide information about the visitors of the fan page, and on which ones
Legal basis they base their actions on. Likewise, Facebook cannot be unilateral
decide on the scope of processing in joint responsibility
the. All of the fan page operators we contact remain in each
Case obliges the lawfulness of the processing of personal data
and to ensure that we, as the competent supervisory authority, also
assign.214

However, we are in a constructive relationship with most fan page operators
active dialogue. True, they could meet their legal obligations
ultimately consistently fail to comply and, in particular, the legality
not be able to prove the processing, mainly because the data provided by Facebook
provided agreement on joint responsibility is not sufficient
was. However, at the end of October 2019, Facebook had a significantly revised one
Version of the "Page Insights Supplement regarding the person responsible"215
provided. This addresses a large number of the points of criticism that the DSK and we
have expressed, so that some of our questions have been settled. In
However, this addition remains insufficient in relation to the most crucial points:
special are the data processing under joint responsibility
not exhaustive, but only described as an example. So that fan page
examine the lawfulness of the processing and their accountability
However, it is imperative that they understand the scope
conclusively know of the processing and it is ensured that there are no them
unknown processing in joint responsibility. In addition
there are doubts as to whether the agreement actually includes all processing in common
mer accountability, and there are other deficiencies in the area of information
information of the persons concerned. The latter should, however, without further
fix difficulties.

Considerable reservations about data processing in the context of
ment of Facebook fan pages, including doubts as to whether the von
Agreement provided to Facebook all processing steps in common

 
214 Art 5 Para 2 GDPR
 
215

Information from Facebook on page insights (https://de-de facebook com/legal/
terms/page_controller_addendum)

187

mer responsibility covers. In addition, it is conceivable that fan page
driving also subject to sanctions for a possible data protection violation
Facebook are jointly responsible. It can be assumed that these questions
will be busy for a while and for further tests and measures
can lead to

At present, fan page operators can fulfill their legal obligations to
we do not comply with the lawfulness of the processing. A legal one
Operating a Facebook fan page is currently hardly possible. fanpa
ge operators who do not accept the associated legal risks
want to take should ask Facebook to remedy the defects.

13.7 Social Plugins and Shared

 

 
responsibility

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

With a judgment of July 29, 2019, the ECJ determined that even when using
Social plug-ins such as Facebook's Like button share responsibility
of website operators and social media services.216 Basically
legendary ECJ ruling on Facebook fan pages217 was the fact that fan
page operators through the operation of their Facebook fan page processing
of data from fan page visitors in the first place, only one of
several justifications for Facebook's joint responsibility
and fan page operators. With the ruling on the Like button, the ECJ has now
unequivocally stated that it is for joint responsibility
It is sufficient if website operators integrate third-party content such as social plug-ins into their
Integrate the website and thereby the processing of personal data
made possible by these third parties.

In addition to the li-
ke button from Facebook almost any type of foreign content that is on a web
page can be integrated. Examples include scripts, fonts,

216 CJEU, judgment of 29 July 2019 − C-40/17; in particular Rn 75f (Fashion ID)
217 ECJ, judgment of 5 June 2018 − C-210/16 (Wirtschaftsakademie Schleswig-Holstein)

 
 

 

188

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 7 Social Plugins and Shared Accountability

 

 

Videos, city maps, audience measurement and advertising. Main exception is
the existence of order processing - but such is not to be assumed
men if the third parties also use the supposed order data for their own purposes
may process, as is the case with Google Analytics.218

In this case, the joint controllers must not only have a
26 DS-GVO, but also need one each
Legal basis for processing the data. As the legal basis for the
Disclosure of the personal data of visitors to the
Website towards third parties usually only a consent in terms of
costume.219

In practice, website operators in many cases impermissibly bind third parties
comply, especially with tracking services and advertising networks. often
but also thoughtlessly used standard functions that are inadmissible and also
usually unnecessarily integrate third-party content without the user necessarily doing so
is aware. However, those responsible must verify the legality of their data processing
work.220 This requires precise knowledge of which
data is processed for what purpose and the examination of the lawful
speed of processing. Again and again we find that website operators
cannot provide any information as to which data is generated through the use of third-party
hold for what purpose are processed. It is to be clearly pointed out that
that ignorance does not protect against responsibility.221

We have received a large number of complaints about inadmissible third-party content,
In some cases we examine this ex officio. The procedures are because of
often very expensive due to the large number of third-party content. Against the background of
associated gross violations of the personal rights of the visitors
In this area, users and visitors of the websites are sure to be fined.
expected to drive.

218 See 13 4
219 See 13 3 and 13 4
220 Art 5 Para 2 GDPR
221 ECJ, judgment of 5 June 2018 − C-210/16 (Wirtschaftsakademie Schleswig-Holstein)

 
 
 
 

40

189

Anyone who integrates third-party content on their own website processes in most
ten cases personal data in joint responsibility
the provider of this third-party content and must communicate with it
or conclude an agreement with them in accordance with Art. 26 GDPR. Besides that
is consent for the integration of third-party content in most cases
of the visitors of the websites is required. website description
in Berlin should integrate their websites with suitable tools.
review the third-party content. Third party content must either be removed or
be made legally compliant.

13.8 Berlin.de - service portal with problems

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

The city portal Berlin.de is operated as a public-private partnership between the
State of Berlin and a private provider; the advertisements are
outsourced to another provider. The responsibilities are intrans-
parent. However, the visitors of the are all the more transparent
Website: Berlin.de integrates third-party content on a large scale, which
dig the transmission of personal data to the providers of the third-party content
connected is. In any case, the intensive tracking did not go through to the content
the country responsible sides means that also sensitive data of themselves
people who inform about the Berlin offers to various third parties
are given.

Even just accessing the Berlin.de home page is automatically linked to a
enormous number of third parties reported: Our tests showed that over 400 elements of
up to 149 different servers were loaded. Even if our exam
not yet complete, it appears that most of these will be services
to act that create usage profiles for advertising purposes. For inclusion
Such services require the consent of the website visitor
required, such as the DSK in the orientation guide for providers of telemedia
worked out in detail.222 In addition, according to case law,
ment of the ECJ a joint responsibility of website operators

 

222 See 13 3

 

190

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 8 Berlin de – Service portal with problems

 

the and advertising companies, which among other things have an agreement according to Art. 26 DS-GVO
requires.223

 

On the pages for which the State of Berlin is responsible for content, it looks better
because there is no advertising involved. But even those who use a search
maschine the direct route to the service portal of the state (service.berlin.de)
has found must not feel safe from surveillance: There is also here
Usage tracking - and because of the non-transparent linking of those responsible
areas of land and private providers, it can quickly happen that the
"public" part of the offer is left unnoticed.

For example, if you search the state’s service portal in the “Security and emergency
lay" after the term "AIDS test", there are no results, although there are various
Information from the state on this topic is available - but not in the service
valley. Instead, it is offered to expand the search to Berlin.de as a whole -
 
which anyone who needs an AIDS test will certainly be happy to do. Without reference to the
Consequences for data protection, the further search then takes place in private
area of responsibility. The search term – sensitive information that
falls under the special legal protection of the DS-GVO224 - is used without consent
of the searchers passed on to a large number of third parties (in our test: 73
third party server). This is partly done in a very targeted manner, partly through technical means
Layout. This is without express and on the specifically sensitive data
related consent of the website visitor inadmissible.

We are conducting an ex officio review procedure for Berlin.de. Further lie
us various notices and complaints about impermissible tracking and impermissible
significant integration of third-party content. The exam will be canceled due to the large
wands still need some time for such tests. However, it is
already noticed that the topic of data protection at Berlin.de is neglected
terically and cannot even be found out internally at our request
the was which personal usage data by whom and to which
purposes are processed. The case law of the ECJ on the question
My responsibility seems despite all information from us or

223 See 13 7
224 See Art 9 GDPR

 
 

191

the various press releases on the subject to those responsible
to have attended. Although we are the Senate in this case about our
have informed you of interim findings, the situation has not yet
bar improved.

The Berlin.de case should be a warning example for website operators and
 
Reason for critically reviewing their websites. Who Third-Party Content
on your own website usually requires the consent of the
website visitor. Third-party content is particularly critical if the third party
Find out inputs such as search terms for the website operators
may contain uncontrollably sensitive data within the meaning of Art. 9 DS-GVO,
or if from the contents of the website on sensitive information about
Health or political settings can be closed. In the
explicit and specific consent is required in such cases
can hardly be obtained in practice. Third party content must be removed either
or made legally compliant.

13.9 Customer Account Deletion Routine

 

A citizen complained about an e-mail from a contact exchange in which he
was shared that his profile had been viewed by someone else.
The complainant had initially joined the platform six years previously
Register for free and create a profile. Shortly afterwards he also had a
applies for compulsory membership, which allows him to make contact with others
allowed members. However, he ended it shortly thereafter. There-
after the complainant was no longer active on the platform. his customer
However, denkonto and his profile remained saved. The complainant re-
only realized this when, six years later, he received an email saying
someone looked at his profile.

The storage of personal data in free customer accounts that
not be used for a long period of time is not permitted indefinitely.

Businesses are committed to data minimization. You may
only process gene data to the extent that this is appropriate for the purpose and to the necessary

192

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Chapter 13 Telecommunications and Media 13 9 Deletion routine for customer accounts

 

agile measure is limited. As soon as the processing is no longer necessary,
personal data must also be processed without the request of the person concerned
then be deleted. For this, companies need personal data
process, provide appropriate internal regulations and measures. she
must check at regular intervals which personal data
are no longer necessary and must be deleted. For this it is necessary
necessary to create a deletion concept, which data will be deleted after which period
and when the deadline calculation begins - information that, by the way, too
to be specified in the privacy statement.225

How long data in inactive customer accounts may still be stored,
cannot be answered in general. This depends on many factors of
on a case-by-case basis, e.g. what purpose the customer account serves, how sensitive the
Data is whether third parties have access to it and much more. m. Here every company must
first make an assessment and regulation for yourself, which we then
can be checked.

 

In our case, highly sensitive data was stored in the profile, e.g. photos
and information about sexual orientation and preferences. Besides, that was
Profile also visible to other members of the platform. So the data became
made accessible to a wide range of people. This represents a special
invasion of the complainant's privacy.

 

After six years in which the complainant did not use his customer account
in any case, the company could no longer easily get away with it
assume that he still has an interest in the storage and disclosure of
good information about him. The company would have at least
least need to regularly ensure that a maintenance of the profile
is still desired.

Companies that offer their customers (free of charge) the installation of a
offer customer accounts must be regularly checked, particularly in the case of inactive
frequently check whether the customers are still interested in the
have the right to maintain those accounts and otherwise delete those accounts.

225 See Art 13 Para 2 lit a or Art 14 Para 2 lit a GDPR

 

193

14 Europe
14.1 Adaptation of the Berlin state law

 
 

the General Data Protection Regulation
 

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is like any other EU regulation
directly applicable, so that in principle there is no implementation act
the Berlin legislature needed. Nevertheless, the GDPR contains in certain
ten parts of exceptional areas in which the state legislature authorizes and
is obliged to issue supplementary regulations. This concerns in particular
the creation of a legal basis for data processing by public authorities
len. Under certain conditions, the legislature can also
restrict rights. Actually, these adjustments would have the state law
to the GDPR by May 25, 2018 at the latest. The current
The timetable provides for the legislative project to be completed by mid-2020
is completed.

Almost two years after the deadline, the legislator is finally on target
cycle The Senate has drafted an article law that contains the necessary
summarize the changes in the Berlin state law and send them to the
netenhaus of Berlin is to be submitted for resolution. in charge
The Senate Administration is responsible for preparing a draft bill
for home and sport. The respective senate administrations responsible for content
work for the Senate Department for the Interior and Sport.

The draft bill provides that a total of approx. 80 Berlin laws and regulations
regulations are changed. Our authority was involved in the drafting of the
involved at least to some extent in the draft and has both the Senate administration
for interior affairs and sport as well as other individual Senate administrations for specific
cal questions.

In our statements, we particularly complained that the referee
design has overshot the mark at various points and the
Administration grants more processing powers than for task fulfillment

194

Chapter 14 Europe 14 1 Adaptation of the Berlin state law to the General Data Protection Regulation
 

 

 

 

would be required.226 In addition, we have opposed restrictions on the
citizens' rights, which also only in very
narrow limits are permissible, some of which have been exceeded.227 Unfortunately,
in the draft bill, not all of our proposals
considers. This is not only a data protection policy problem, but
also goes against higher-ranking European law, since the opening clauses of the DS-
GMOs are inadmissibly overstretched. This also applies in a special way
in relation to sensitive data, the processing of which is particularly important under the GDPR
demands because it involves a particularly deep intervention in the personality
human right to privacy.228
 

On the other hand, it is positive that the draft law includes a right to be heard
rer authority before the House of Representatives is provided again, which in the first
legislative processes after the GDPR came into effect. All-
However, this only applies in our capacity as data protection officer. in the
In the area of freedom of information, such a right is lacking, as is e.g.
right of appeal229. Here should also the support obligation of the public
bodies are standardized accordingly. Without these authorizations, an appropriate
proper fulfillment of the tasks under the Freedom of Information Act not possible
lich.

 

Another important area that is completely covered in the current legislative project
lig left out is the area of police and justice. area specific
Technical regulations for the implementation of the so-called JI guideline230 are missing. This also
Reich-specific regulations - in particular the general security and
Regulatory Law (ASOG) - urgently need to be integrated into the European legal framework
be adjusted.

 
 
 
 
 

226 See Art 6 Para 1 lit c, e Para 2, Para 3 GDPR
227 See Art 23 GDPR
228 Art 9 GDPR
229 See Section 13 (2) sentences 1-3 BlnDSG
230 Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April
2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
by the competent authorities for the purpose of prevention, investigation, detection
or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of sentences as well as for free data transfer
and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA

195

The Senate of Berlin has launched a bill. we will
which we continue to use in the legislative process to ensure that data
protection rights of citizens also in data processing
maintained by the public administration of the State of Berlin. It's closed
hope that the draft will be revised accordingly and then as soon as possible
is passed because it contains important regulations for the adjustment of the Berliner
State law on the DS-GVO contains. This also applies to the police sector
and justice and freedom of information.

14.2 How does a guideline of the European

 

data protection board?
 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

With the entry into force of the GDPR, the so-called European data protection
Committee (EDSA) started its work. In this committee are data
safety supervisory authorities of all European member states as well as the European
nical data protection officers.231 An important task is to
to issue general guidelines for the interpretation of the GDPR. With that
Clarity regarding the uniform interpretation of vague legal terms
created in the data protection laws of the EU member states. One
Such a guideline, which our authority has been responsible for, is the guideline for
video surveillance.

Anyone who travels a lot in Europe and pays attention to it quickly realizes that - although we
With the DS-GVO there is now a directly applicable uniform data protection law
have - video surveillance is handled very differently in many places.
In some places, cameras seem to be following our every move and
in other EU member states you can move around freely and unobserved
move. The measures, such as video surveillance made transparent
power seem to vary widely.

This is less due to the cost of such cameras, which are now everywhere
are cheap to get, but rather because data protection laws are very

231 See 14 3

 

196

Chapter 14 Europe 14 2 How is a European Data Protection Board policy created?
 

 

 

be interpreted differently. First of all, it should be noted that the GDPR
does not contain any special rules on video surveillance. Rather, the video
monitoring are measured against the general clause of Article 6 (1) (f) GDPR
the. This provision provides for a balance between the interests of the
responsible for monitoring and the interests and fundamental rights of the
respected. This balancing of interests is carried out by the responsible
carried out differently by supervisory authorities. For uniform handling
in the field of video surveillance, the EDPB has decided to launch a
to issue guidelines in this regard.

Since we have the freedom to be able to move around in public without being observed
s, for a particularly high and worthy of protection good, has our
was announced as the main rapporteur on this matter. Our
The aim was to achieve the highest possible level of data protection for those affected
reach or maintain and at the same time provide clear guidelines for the companies
so that they can adapt better to the new legal situation.

As the main rapporteur, we initially had the task of developing a concept
wrap and present in a working group of the committee. have after that
together with the co-rapporteurs from France, Sweden, Czech
Chien, Poland and the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
created a first draft, which was shared with the rest of Europe
data protection supervisory authorities was discussed in said working group. To
The working group has gone through many meetings and tedious negotiations
finally agreed on a draft that was presented on 9 July 2019 in the EDPB plenary session
was accepted.

During the entire process we were supported again and again by
supervisory authorities in other federal states. The integration of the other Germans
Supervisory authorities is not only important for reasons of division of labour. Since the
German supervisory authorities in the EDPB - like all other member states - only
have a voice, a corresponding opinion-forming process must be carried out in advance on national
take place at the onal level. In this case it was helpful to have one of your own
Working group on questions of video surveillance at the level of the conference
Federal and state data protection supervisory authorities (DSK). In this way
interim results were repeatedly presented to the working group, so that the ex-

197

certise of the members from the federal and state governments could be called up optimally
and close feedback between the European and national levels
was easily possible.

After the adoption by the EDPB, the process of creating the guideline was over
for video surveillance but not yet finished. Subsequently, a so-called
Public consultation carried out. With this form of public participation
have representatives from business, politics and civil society
society, but also interested private individuals the opportunity to express their views
issues and concerns in writing and to make suggestions for changes. to
We received about 100 comments on this guideline. Most came
from companies and business associations from all over Europe, but also from
Asia. We share these opinions with the co-rapporteurs
evaluated and the results submitted to the other European supervisory authorities
presented and discussed by the EDPB working group. At the end of this laborious
gene process is the approval of the proposed changes by the EDPB and
the final approval of the guidelines, which took place shortly after the end of the
period end of January 2020.

The development of guidelines at European level is in each individual case
a long and tedious process that requires a lot of coordination and coordination
national and EU level. Nevertheless, there is no alternative, since the DS-GVO
contains many general clauses that require interpretation. The Berlin representative
for data protection and freedom of information is actively committed to a high level
Level of data protection for citizens and at the same time for clear
and manageable rules for operators of video cameras
speed up

198

Chapter 14 Europe 14 3 Overview of the work of the European Data Protection Board

 

 

 

 

14.3 News from Europe - Overview of the
work of the European data protection
 
committee

 

At the latest since the GDPR came into effect, data protection law has become a
European joint project by all EU member states. That requires
a greater willingness to communicate and cooperate about the application
of the data protection regulations under the German supervisory authorities.
on the one hand and among the European supervisory authorities on the other.

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

Particular importance is attached to the diverse coordination requirements
ties to the EDPB, which is an independent European institution and its
based in Brussels. The EDPB ensures the uniform application of the GDPR
of the European Union and promotes the cooperation of the European
data protection supervisory authorities among themselves. It consists of the European
data protection officers and the heads of the EU supervisory
authorities or their representatives. The German data protection
according to the will of the German legislator in the EDSA, only one voting
authorized representative and a deputy
Deputy, although in Germany it is due to our federal system
there are several data protection supervisory authorities.232 Voting representative in the
EDSA is the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
A state data protection officer is entitled to act as a representative
to bring the country's perspective directly to the European level
be able. This is of particular importance because the
between federal and state governments are clearly separated and just the area
the economy, which makes up a large part of the cases advised by the EDPB, countries
the thing is. Unfortunately, the Federal Council also more than two years after the entry into force
no person from the ranks of the state data
nominated by data protection authorities. The Hamburg Da-
data protection officer continues to perform this function.

232 Section 17 of the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG)

 

199



One of the tasks of the EDPB is to provide general instructions in the sense of
measures, guidelines, recommendations or even specific handouts such as
e.g. on so-called "best practices"233, in which data protection
terms are clarified. The EDPB also advises the European Com-
mission in all matters related to the protection of personal data and the
change in data protection regulations. Further promote
the EDPB encourages cooperation and the effective exchange of information
information and experiences on best practices between supervisors
hear. Also in disputes between the European supervisory authorities
the EDPB to take action and issue a binding decision. In cases in
where a matter of general application is at stake, he can
publish statement. The EDPB reports every year in an annual report
about his activities.

The committee has several sub-working groups in which women
and employees of the supervisory authorities of the EU member states and the Euro
European data protection officers in Brussels to meet
develop the same guidelines and other documents. In the working groups too
Topics such as enforcement proceedings, cooperation, technology
logy, social media or fine proceedings, the work on the content takes place on the
based on problem cases and key questions. In these working groups
discussed in a compromise-oriented manner and argued productively in order to
concrete and application-oriented questions in connection with the implementation
tion of data protection in the EU. The results of the expert consultations
are then discussed and approved in the plenary session of the EDPB.

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information represents the
supervisory authorities of the countries in a number of EU working groups and has
thus contributed to numerous guidelines. However, since our authority is not in all
Working groups can be represented, we work closely with the supervisory authorities
other federal states and the federal government together. This means that we
these positions via the respective representatives in the working
bring in groups if we are not represented there ourselves.

233 Engl "Best practice" The term describes proven, optimal or exemplary

 

Methods, practices or procedures

200

Chapter 14 Europe 14 3 Overview of the work of the European Data Protection Board

 

 

 

The most important guidelines, which were developed in working groups of the EDPB and
plenary, one guideline deals with treaties
online services.234 In addition, a guideline on so-called behavioral
rules (codes of conduct) and monitoring bodies in accordance with the regulation
2016/679, which provides practical guidance on interpretation
and in the application of Art. 40 and 41 GDPR.235 This guideline aims
aims to establish procedures and rules for submission, approval and publication
clarification of codes of conduct for specific economic sectors at national and
explained at European level. Already accepted – but still subject
public participation – are the guidelines for video surveillance236
Data protection through technology design and through data protection-friendly pre-
and the "right to be forgotten" in connection with in-
internet search engines.237

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information acts on the
Guidelines, recommendations and other documents of the European data
protection committee. Through our participation in many of the working groups
of the committee, we are committed to a high level of data protection throughout the EU.

234 Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the

 

context of the provision of online services to data subjects of 8 October 2019

235 Guidelines 1/2009 on codes of conduct and monitoring bodies in accordance with the

 

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of 4 June 2019, p. 6

 

236 See 14 2 Note: This guideline was updated after completion of public
at the EDPB immediately after the end of the reporting period on 29 January 2020
adopted

 

237 All guidelines can be found at: https://edpb europa eu/our-work-tools/ge-
neral-guidance/gdpr-guidelines-recommendations-best-practices_de and - as far as in
German language available - also at https://www datenschutz-berlin de/info-
library-and-service/publications/guidelines/

   

 

201

14.4 General Data Protection Regulation vs.

 

Berlin Constitution

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

With the entry into force of the GDPR, the complete
Independence of the data protection supervisory authorities established. The Constitution
von Berlin (VvB) has not yet understood this development.

Art. 47 Para. 1 of the Constitution of Berlin (VvB) currently reads as follows:

"In order to protect the right of informational self-determination, the
a data protection officer. He is appointed by the President of the
appointed by the House of Representatives and is subject to its supervision.”

In contrast, Art. 52 Para. 1 DS-GVO regulates that every supervisory authority at the
fully independent in the performance of their duties and in the exercise of their powers
acts gigantic. This is governed by Art. 52 Para. 2 GDPR, which stipulates freedom from instructions
expressly and comprehensively constituted, concretized.

The requirement for the independence of the data protection authorities from Art. 52 Para. 1
DS-GVO is anchored in primary law238 in the contract on employment
wise of the European Union (TFEU)239 and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the
European Union (GRCh)240, which provide that compliance with data protection
is to be monitored by independent authorities or bodies.

In its judgment against Germany241 the ECJ specified the requirements
to "complete independence" by making it clear that the decision-making
walt of the data protection supervisory authorities of any external influence
it must be withdrawn, directly or indirectly, “by the questioned
could be that the control bodies mentioned are doing their job of protecting the
Right to privacy and free movement of personal data

238 Primary law is the highest-ranking law in the EU
239 Article 16 (2) sentence 2 TFEU
240 Art 8 para 3 GRCh
241 ECJ, judgment of 9 March 2010 – C-518/07

 
 
 
 

202

Chapter 14 Europe 14 4 General Data Protection Regulation vs Berlin Constitution

 

 

To bring balance, to fulfill”.242 State supervision “no matter what
Art" allows such influence. Even if the supervision of a
In practice, the higher authority regularly does not issue specific instructions
the supervisory authorities, the mere danger of exerting political influence is enough
to impair their independent performance of duties.243
 

The official supervision of Berliners, which is still regulated in the Berlin constitution
Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information by the President of the
House of Representatives violates Art. 52 Para. 1 and 2 GDPR. Another
 
The decision of the ECJ in its judgment against Austria244 leaves room for interpretation
not to.

In this he evaluated the civil service supervision of the business
leading member of the Austrian Data Protection Commission despite the
strongly secured freedom from instructions and functional independence
Commission as a violation of Art. 28 para. 1 subpara. 2 Data Protection Directive
(old)245. In this respect, it is sufficient to point out that it cannot be ruled out that
that the assessment of the executive member of the data protection commission
sion by the superior, with the official advancement of this official
should be promoted, in this to a form of "anticipatory obedience"
could lead.246 The Data Protection Commission was so due to the ties of its
res executive member to the political entity under their control
Organ not above any suspicion of partisanship.247 Against this background
For this reason, the majority of the literature also assumes that supervisory supervision

 

 

242 ECJ, judgment of 9 March 2010 – C-518/07, paragraph 30
243 CJEU, judgment of 9 March 2010 – C-518/07, paragraphs 32-36
244 CJEU, judgment of 16 October 2012 – C-614/10
245 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October

 
 
 
 

1995 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
ten and to free data traffic, out of effect since the beginning of the GDPR

246 ECJ, judgment of 16 October 2012 – C-614/10, paragraph 51
247 ECJ, judgment of 16 October 2012 – C-614/10, para. 52, ZD 2012, 563

 
 

203

about members of the supervisory authority not with the requirement "complete independence
pendency” from Art. 52 Para. 1 DS-GVO is to be agreed.248
 

The opinion of the Commission in the
breach of contract proceedings against Germany (No. 2003/4820).249 Accordingly
the supervision existing in the administrations to the requirement of a "complete
gene independence" in contradiction, since not with certainty bordering on certainty
possibility can be ruled out that the respective employer on this way
could attempt to unduly influence the decisions of the control body
gain weight. The German legislature made similar considerations in its
Explanatory memorandum to the second amendment to the then Federal Data Protection Act
starting with which of a service supervision for the Federal Commissioner or
the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
would see. A waiver of the supervision is therefore necessary, "to the
formal appearance of an indirect influence on the official performance of
to prevent from the outset", even if a supervision neither the possibility
bility opened, direct influence on decisions of the data protection authority
exercise, nor the possibility to overrule or enforce these decisions
set.250 Something else can therefore not for the data protection officer
apply at state level.

Art. 52 DS-GVO only opens up limited leeway for the member states
ten. In particular, paragraphs 1 to 3 are directly applicable at the national level.
Bares EU law251 and thus national law takes precedence.252 In the case of
Violations of the member states against Art. 52 DS-GVO can prevent the supervisory
Authorities directly refer to the GDPR and judicial legal protection

248 Gola DS-GVO/Nguyen, 2 Auf 2018, DS-GVO Art 52, para. 12, 13; Ehmann/Selmayr/

 

Selmayr, 2 Auf 2018, DS-GVO Art 52, para. 17; Kühling/Buchner/Boehm, 2 on 2018,
DS-GVO Art 52, para. 25; Taeger/Gabel/Grittmann, 3 Auf 2019, DS-GVO Art 52, Rn 15;
Paal/Pauly/Körffer, 2 Auf 2018, DS-GVO Art 52, para. 3; Simitis/Hornung/Spiecker
gen Döhmann, data protection law, DS-GVO Art 52, para. 8

249 Opinion COM infringement proceedings against Germany No. 2003/4820, p. 5
 
250 Draft law for the second law amending the Federal Data Protection Act -

 
 

 

Strengthening the independence of data protection supervision in the federal government through establishment
a supreme federal authority, BT-Drs 18/2848, p. 13

251 Paal/Pauly/Körffer, 2 Auf 2018, DS-GVO Art 52, para. 2; BeckOK data protection R/

 

Schneider, 29 Ed 1 August 2019, DS-GVO Art 52, para. 1

252 ECJ judgment of 15 July 1964, Rs 6/64, Costa/ENEL

 

204

Chapter 14 Europe 14 4 General Data Protection Regulation vs Berlin Constitution

 

 

search.253 If Art. 47 VvB does not meet the data protection requirements
be changed accordingly, a renewed breach of contract
threaten proceedings against Germany.

A wording of Art. 47 Para. 1 VvB that conforms to European law could look something like this
are as follows:

"To protect the right to informational self-determination, the
liner House of Representatives a data protection officer or a data
applied. She or he will be appointed by the President of the
appointed house. The Berlin representative for data protection and
Freedom of information acts in the performance of her or his duties or at
completely independent of the exercise of his or her powers and not subject to instructions."

Art. 47 Para. 1 VvB is contrary to European law and should be changed.

253 BeckOK data protection R/Schneider, 29 Ed 1 August 2019, DS-GVO Art 52 marginal number 1

 

205

15 information obligation
 

 

data breaches

15.1 General Developments

 

 
Last year we talked about the new requirements for data
General Protection Regulation (GDPR) with regard to reporting and information obligations
of those responsible for data breaches254 reported.255 Were there in 2018
a total of 357 reports, which is already a sharp increase compared to
Last year meant 256, so the reporting period was another sharp increase
 
of the reports on 1017.257

We are often asked by those responsible who have reported a data breach and
met (possibly as a precautionary measure) whether they were informed as a result of the report
could expect a sanction. In accordance with Section 43 (4) of the Federal Data Protection Act
(BDSG) may report a data breach in a procedure under the law
about administrative offenses against the reporting person or notification
the or his relatives only with the consent of the person required to report or
information.258 This provision in the BDSG serves to
safeguarding the principle that no one may be forced to

254 See Art 33, 34 GDPR
255 JB 2018, 1 3
256 It should be noted that the figures will not be available until the end of May when the GDPR takes effect

 
 
 

 

 

increased

257,874 reports in the non-public area, 143 reports in the public area

 

(Status: 31 December 2019)

 

258 According to the explanatory memorandum to § 43 Para. 4 BDSG (BT-Drs 18/11325, S 109).
the regulation is based on the opening clause of Art. 83 Para. 8 DS-GVO, where
according to which appropriate procedural guarantees must be created

206

Chapter 15 Duty to provide information in the event of data breaches 15 2 individual cases

 

in criminal or administrative offense proceedings.259 That's how it should be
Tensions in which those responsible are located are resolved,
because they are either due to a data protection violation that is subject to sanctions
accuse yourself or - to avoid this - against the reporting and notification
breach the obligation to correct, which in turn can be sanctioned.260 The
means that based on the information in the report alone, no fine will be imposed
 
may be imposed.261

 

However, it is questionable whether this also applies if the supervisory authority is still
finds out about the data breach in another way, e.g. through a complaint
affected person. The decisive factor here is whether the complaint as a direct di-
Direct reaction to the notification of those affected by the person responsible
done. However, even in these cases, a warning262 due to
the substantive data protection breach underlying the breakdown,
to be pronounced.

 

15.2 Individual Cases

 

Several day care centers have reported to us that digital cameras take photos
stolen from excursions with children and educators. All responsible
both the affected employees (as a precaution) and the
affected parents either with an information letter or by posting it in
informed the day care center about the incident - rightly so, because the risk that the child

 
259

"Nemo tenetur se ipsum accusare"; This principle is one of the recognized ones
Principles of a rule of law procedure and is by Art 2 Para 1 in conjunction with Art 1
Paragraph 1 of the Basic Law (GG) constitutionally guaranteed ("freedom from self-incrimination
obligation", see BVerfG, decision of April 27, 2010 - 2 BvL 13/07) The basic
Incidentally, the sentence is an expression of the fair trial principle in Article 6 of the European
shen rights convention (right to a fair trial)

 
 

260 Art 83 para 4 lit a GDPR
261 According to another view, the ban on use in Section 43 (4) BDSG is
contrary because there is no "reasonable" procedural guarantee in the sense of the opening clause of the
Art 83 Para. 8 DS-GVO, but beyond those procedural guarantees
emanates, which are required under European law Sun Kühling/Buchner/Bergt, 2 Auf 2018,
 
Section 43, margin no. 13; similar to the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Ba-
den-Württemberg, 33 activity report, p. 17

262 Art 58 Para 2 lit b GDPR

 

207

Sharing photos through shady channels on the internet is sadly a thing these days
high.

The State Office for Health and Social Affairs (LaGeSo) reported to us that it
Apparently a total of 18 dictation machines at three district offices, a district court and
a tax office have submitted the personal dictations via public health officers
included investigations. After the LaGeSo had identified the error,
immediately asked the administrations to delete the dictations without reading them.
Nevertheless, we have demanded from LaGesSo that all dictation machines be
returned to the LaGeSo and they were examined by a person with IT expertise
and the official data protection officer to check whether
all dictations are completely and irretrievably deleted. The LaGeSo followed
our demand.

We received a message from the company that organizes the annual Berlin Mara
organized. There was a technical error in the database in one
time window of approx. 15 hours meant that marathon participants
could look at the emergency contact details of other runners,
whereby they are assigned the emergency contacts to the respective runners
runners was not possible. The total number of emergency
case contacts (each with name, date of birth and telephone number) amounted to
to 5,242 and affected people from across Europe. That's why it was
a "cross-border processing".263 As the lead in Europe, we have
competent supervisory authority is processing the case. The person responsible has affected all
Do not inform your emergency contacts directly if you do not have an e-mail or postal address
but has a notification letter for the runners
ben with a request to inform their emergency contacts.

A decrease in reports of data breaches is still not to be expected,
currently the numbers are still rising and it is about to level off
start at a high level.

263 See Art 4 No. 23 lit b GDPR

 

208

Chapter 15 Duty to provide information in the event of data breaches 16 1 Brexit – Consequences of a (no)deal

 

 

16 International Development
developments in data protection

16.1 Brexit – consequences of a (no) deal

 

The withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (UK).
of the European Union, commonly known as Brexit, was originally intended for
Scheduled for March 29, 2019. At their special summit on April 10, 2019, the
EU states have been granted a Brexit delay until October 31, 2019 at the latest.
it's correct. Just before that deadline they have another UK application
to extend the deadline by January 31, 2020 at the latest.264

The conference of the independent federal data protection supervisory authorities
and the countries (DSK) has companies, authorities and other institutions
in Germany information regarding the legal situation regarding the data
ten protection after Brexit.265 In the process, between a
exit regulated on the basis of the exit agreement ("Deal-Brexit") and a
a no-deal Brexit. In the first case applies
EU law, including the GDPR, for a transitional period that is unique
can be extended by a maximum of two years until the end of 2020. While
this time, personal data could enter the UK under the same conditions
regulations are transmitted as before. In the second case, the UK becomes one
Third country within the meaning of the GDPR. Persons responsible for the personal data
If you want to transfer jobs in the UK, you would then have to include the data transfers
secure the special measures according to Chapter 5 of the GDPR.266 As long as it
no determination as to the adequacy of the level of data protection in the UK,

264 European Council Decision of 28 October 2019 – EUCO XT 20024/2/19, REV 2
265 DSK resolution of March 8, 2019, available at www data protection conference

 
 

 

online de/beschluesse-dsk html

 

266 See EDPB information of 12 February 2019 on data transfers in the framework
of the GDPR in the event of a no-deal Brexit (available as a German working translation
at https://www bfdi bund de/SharedDocs/Publikationen/DocumentsArt29Group_
EDSA/Other papers/EDSA_Info_NoDealBrexit_Arbeits%C3%BCbersetzung htm-
l?nn=5217120)

 

209

would there be data transfer instruments such as the standard data protection clauses or
binding corporate data protection regulations. Also
a code of conduct267 or a certification mechanism268 could be appropriate
provide these guarantees for the transfer of personal data to the UK.
What are the requirements for these new instruments according to the GDPR
are, will result from the guidelines that the European data protection
schuss (EDSA) intends to say goodbye in the coming year.

 

 

All bodies that want to transfer personal data to the UK are
well advised to take all necessary precautions for lawful data flows
meeting.

16.2 Report from the Berlin Group

 

In 2019, the international working group on data protection met in the
Telecommunications (IWGDPT) as chaired twice for many years
the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information.

16.2.1 Spring Meeting

 

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

At the spring conference on April 9th and 10th in Bled, Slovenia, protection stood
of children at the center of the deliberations. Two working papers were agreed
be divorced: On the one hand, on data protection for online services that (also)
aimed at children and on the other hand at smart devices with which they play
or learn.

Children are particularly at risk when using online services. you ver-
spend considerable time with online services: with websites and those there
content provided, with social networks and similar services
people, with apps on their smartphones that many have been using since they were
sit, with communication services running on these smartphones

267 Art 46 Para 2 lit e GDPR
268 Art 46 Para 2 lit f GDPR

 
 

210

Chapter 16 International developments in data protection 16 2 Report from the Berlin Group

 

Play on smartphones, PCs and game consoles and with voice-controlled assistants
assistance systems. Also, their ability is only emerging, informed about the
decide to disclose data that affects them or those around them. Of the
Intentions of the companies providing the Services or those involved in them
involved in provision, as well as many risks associated with the use
they are not yet aware of. The Consequences of Unintentional Revelation
and use of data concerning them can range from minor annoyances to
far more serious impairments, up to and including sexual exploitation
by other users of the services they visit.

The paper published by the working group focuses on the risk
ken of the improper processing of data about children by the
Operators of the services and the service providers integrated by them.
It identifies the existing risks and makes recommendations, on the one hand
for authorities and for the regulation of the services by laws and other
on the other hand for the companies that provide the services. This recommendation
genes relate to the obtaining of valid consent by the legal guardians;
sufficient transparency about the planned data processing
Information both for the parents and - in a way adapted to the target audience -
appropriate language and form – for the children themselves; Data protection through technology
design and privacy-friendly defaults built into the Services
should be grated; the deletion of data necessary for the provision of the services
are no longer relevant and the granting of the right to information and the
Right to transfer of the data stored in a service to another
their, possibly more privacy-friendly.

Smart devices intended for children include electronically controlled and possibly
Internet-connected toys, "smart" electronic watches and
such as baby monitors and other child monitoring devices. These devices
use the connection to the Internet to determine their location (and thus the
to determine the whereabouts of the children), to transmit data with which the
Children's behavior can be monitored by parents, and linguistic
to enable communication. They record the names of the children and the
Sons in their environment, image data, data on whereabouts and behavior
and possibly even health data of the children. Unfortunately, international
national experience has shown that some manufacturers of such toys or

211

advises on the rights of consumers and the protection of their
have paid far too little attention to data. Some toys had to
withdrawn from the market by order of regulatory authorities.

Here, too, the working group analyzed the associated use of such devices and
Toys associated risks and formulated recommendations. The determined
The greatest risks extend to opaque and excessive data collection
and processing, excessive storage of the collected data and their
unauthorized secondary use, insufficient security of the devices and the
Communication with the service providers with whom they connect, as well as
otherwise unlawful processing operations.

Often manufacturers use highly vague general business terms
terms and privacy policy. From such deficient documents
it is regularly not clear to which other companies and institutions the
data recorded with the devices for which purposes are passed on
the. Storage periods are also not specified. As a rule, the
Manufacturers also reserve the right to change the provisions at any time. Due to the-
Art of defective information, informed consent is not possible and the
frequently carried out data processing that goes beyond the mere provision of the
go beyond the service associated with the devices remain without legal
basis. Devices and toys that provide a way to control the processing
instructions, make them misleading and misleading in the instructions
the parents and their children to adopt privacy-unfriendly practices that
they specify by default to accept. Often grant serious
and easy-to-exploit vulnerabilities give unauthorized third parties control
via data and recording devices (often microphones, sometimes also cameras). if
Update functions are not provided or updates are not provided
den, these gaps cannot be closed either.

The paper follows up on this analysis with a series of recommendations that
primarily to the manufacturers, but also to the parents and other custodial
to schools and teaching staff as well as to the data protection supervisory authorities
judge yourself.

212

Chapter 16 International developments in data protection 16 2 Report from the Berlin Group

 

16.2.2 Autumn Conference

 

The second meeting of the year focused on working on a paper
Tracking and profiling of people when using web offers,
which is to be completed and approved in the coming year. More the
were sensor networks and assistance systems that were activated by speech or gestures.
be controlled.

The working group also used this meeting to evaluate its activities
and the new work regulations that she had given herself two years ago. There
the range of topics worked on in the working group has spread over the years
tert, it was also decided to change the name. The new name is “In-
International Working Group on Data Protection in Technology”.

The Berlin Group enjoys great international recognition. The through her
adopted papers have the inestimable advantage that they are international
nal are coordinated on a broad basis and therefore as well as due to the in them
concrete recommendations for action that are usually contained, a technically reliable one
Offer orientation in difficult data protection issues.

213


17 Freedom of Information
17.1
 

International Developments

 
From March 10th to 13th, 2019 the International Conference of Information
commissioned (ICIC) in Johannesburg/Republic of South Africa. There was
lution decided to act as a permanent network in the future, and the so-called
ICIC Johannesburg Charter agreed as a first set of rules.269 The
conference a regulatory framework in favor of a more constant organization
received. Guidelines and regulations for admission and participation
ment formulated by members.

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI) has
took part in the conference and meanwhile the accreditation procedure
successfully completed. As a member of the ICIC270, she is entitled to attend the closed
attend meetings of the annual meetings.

For this conference, the BlnBDI together with the Federal Commissioner for
Data protection and freedom of information from the Conference of Information
Commissioner for Freedom in Germany (IFK) adopted positions last year
tion paper on the issue of administrative transparency when using algorithms
rithmen271 introduced in a slightly abbreviated version to this important
Topic to achieve an international positioning. The paper is
is circulating and is intended to be revised in this way and approved by the ICIC
be decided.

269 www information commissioners org
270 www information commissioners org/berlin
271 See JB 2018, 13 1

 
 
 

214

Chapter 17 Freedom of Information 17 2 Developments in Germany

 

17.2 Developments in Germany

 

17.2.1 Freedom of Information Cooperation

 

commissioned

This year, the IFK took place under the chairmanship of the independent data protection
in the center of Saarland. With the position paper "Information
Easier access to information in the authorities through 'freedom of information by design'"
the conference called on the legislature to change the legal basis and
to create framework conditions so that the public administration
ments to freedom of information from the outset in the design of their
IT systems and organizational processes.272

In addition, the freedom of information officers have agreed in a resolution
sion for more transparency in political decision-making processes
chen.273 The legislator was asked to introduce a mandatory lobby register
 
to introduce, in which the interest groups at least stating their
must enter their job and activity in the respective decision-making process.
Such lobby registers already exist in other countries.274

17.2.2 New federal law

 

In April, the Law on the Protection of Trade Secrets (GeschGehG) came into force
entered into force.275 The European “Directive on the Protection of
confidential know-how and confidential business information (business

272 IFK position paper of June 12, 2019, available at www datenschutz-berlin

 

de/infothek-und-service/publications/decisions-freedom-of-information/

 

273 Resolution of the IFK of June 12, 2019: Transparency in the context of political
divorce processes – introduce mandatory lobby register, available at www
data protection-berlin de/infothek-und-service/publications/decisions-information-
freedom of mation/

274 For example in Denmark, France, Ireland, Lithuania, Slovenia, Canada and the USA
275 See Federal Law Gazette I 2019, p. 466 et seq

 
 

215

secrets) from illegal acquisition and illegal use and disclosure
lege”.276 In the new law, the term trade secret
 
defined differently than previously by the case law of the Federal Constitutional
concretized by the court. According to this case law, operating and
trade secret all facts, circumstances and
understood processes that are not obvious, but only to a limited person
sons are accessible and to their non-disclosure of the legal entity
has a legitimate interest.277 According to the legal definition in the new law, it comes
now also on the economic value of the information and on
 
appropriate confidentiality measures.278

This means that the hurdle for justifying a protection requirement for business
secrets higher than defined by the Federal Constitutional Court for years
predetermined. Because the rightful owner of the secret must
according to appropriate confidentiality measures" with regard to non-
known information. If such measures are missing, there is no
business secret and therefore no special need for protection
to the undesired use of the information.

Whether the legal definition of the new law will affect the
has trade and business secrets to be checked under the Freedom of Information Act,
is discussed, but against the background of the clear wording of the
Law and justification questionable: The GeschGehG expressly stipulates that
that public law regulations on secrecy, acquisition, use
or disclosure of trade secrets;279 beyond that
after the justification of the law, the application of the law, etc. for information
tion claims against government agencies are excluded.280 Accordingly
the Berlin Administrative Court (at least so far) also assumes that the

276 Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June

 

2016, OJ L 157 of 15 June 2016, p. 1

277 BVerfG, decision of March 14, 2006 – 1 BvR 2087/03, 1 BvR 2111/03
278 § 2 No. 1 a), b) GeschGehG
279 Section 1 (2) GeschGehG
280 BT-Drs 19/4724, p. 23

 
 
 
 

216

Chapter 17 Freedom of Information 17 3 Developments in Berlin

 

Regulations of the GeschGehG in the area of freedom of information are not applicable
are.281

17.2.3 New State Laws

 

After the states of Bremen, Hamburg and Rhineland-Palatinate, Thü-
wrestle about a transparency law and thus about a more modern information
right to freedom, which grants people free access to state information
information via a transparency portal on the Internet. Still there
But there are three federal states that have neither a freedom of information nor a
have a transparency law: Bavaria, Lower Saxony and Saxony.

17.3 Developments in Berlin

 

Fortunately, the first steps towards transparency have also been taken in Berlin.
set recognizable. For example, the FDP parliamentary group has drafted a Berlin transparency
brought into the House of Representatives.282 A hearing of
Experts in the lead committee for communication technology and data
ten protection instead.283
 

Beside it has an alliance of 40 civil society organizations around
the Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e. V. and Mehr Demokratie e. V
initiated a “People’s Decree on Transparency Berlin”.284 It includes
its own draft law for a Berlin transparency law. In December
the more than 30,000 signatures were handed over to the Senate. heart
of both initiatives is the obligation of the State of Berlin to actively publish
of information on the Internet.

281 VG Berlin, judgment of June 26, 2019 - VG 2 K 179 18
282 Abghs -Drs 18/1595 of 16 January 2019
283 KTDat, meeting of 25 November 2019
284 https://volksentscheid-transparenz de/

 
 
 
 

217

Towards the end of the reporting period, the Senate Department for the Interior and
Sport, as the lead administration, drafted an initial key issues paper for a transparency
formulated. The fulfillment of the coalition agreement of 2016 is moving in
a little closer to that point.285

285 See already JB 2018, 13 2 1

 

218

Chapter 17 Freedom of Information 18 1 Developments

 

18 From the office
18.1 Developments

 
 

Over the past year we have detailed about our first experiences
as the supervisory authority for data protection after the data protection
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on May 25, 2018.286 As a result
we had to realize that the workload in the entire authority through
the immensely increased number of petitions, complaints and requests for advice
could hardly be managed. The development observed at that time has changed
continued dynamically in the reporting period.

 

When data breaches are reported by companies and other
verbatim, all of which were researched and provided solutions within tight deadlines
have to be supplied, there has been a seventeenfold increase in the processes
ben.

The number of complaints from citizens relating to their
Rights under the GDPR is consistently high. On average, mo-
Of course, we received almost 400 submissions from affected citizens. There-
with , citizen petitions have tripled permanently since May 2018.287 Through
the large number of processes was the service center for citizen submissions, in which the first
processing of complaints (e.g. examination of factual and local
quality, completeness of the documents, etc.) is carried out centrally, so overloaded that
that the timely processing of the cases could only take place to a limited extent.

 

All incoming complaints - but also all cases in which the Berlin
commissioned for data protection and freedom of information (BlnBDI) ex officio
is active, as well as the data breaches reported by those responsible - must
after the GDPR has come into effect, it can now also be checked whether
there is cross-border data processing. To use this for us as a

286 JB 2018, 14 1
287 See 18 2 1

 
 

219

supervisory authority to be able to cope with a new task was already in the previous year
Service center for European affairs set up.288 The labour-intensive processing
processing of cross-border cases is carried out there by specialized service
forces under the highest legal and technical requirements, in addition
under great time pressure and largely in English. The required
Coordination with the other national and European supervisory authorities
takes place via the Electronic Internal Market Information System (IMI). So far
were around 760 cases across Europe to determine the lead and the
concerned supervisory authorities in the IMI system. In over 360 cases
it was determined that the BlnBDI was affected, so that we can deal with the content
had to deal with the reported facts. A total of 35 cases were reported in
IMI processed under our leadership.

The sanction procedures to punish established data protection law
Sanctions are imposed centrally in our authority in the service center.
works.289 The vast majority of cases are now reported after the new
Fine regulations processed, which in several proceedings on fines in re-
levant height according to the new assessment criteria. To the one with the
Effective date of the new GDPR regulations, in particular for prosecution
of administrative offenses to be able to apply effectively and efficiently
the area of sanctions was reorganized and staffed during the reporting period
structured.

Our offers for teaching data protection and media competence in particular
In the period under review, we expanded our special focus on children.290 The very high
Demand in connection with the project days that we have on the subject of data
protection and media competence in schools shows the immense
allowed in this area. This can be done with the resources available to us
and resources are not nearly covered, which is why we are too
are increasingly looking for cooperation partnerships and networks. We have ours
Children's website www.data-kids.de fundamentally revised and redesigned.
The nomination of this site for the German children's software award TOMMI and

288 See 1 5
289 See 12 1 to 12 4
290 See 5 6

 
 
 

220

Chapter 18 From the office 18 1 Developments

 

Reaching the finals in this year's competition shows us that we can
are on the right track.

Due to the implementation of the regulations of the DS-GVO, the agency is in all areas
are exposed to extremely high loads. That the tasks at least
rudimentary could be done is not least on the remarkable
commitment of the highly motivated employees.
Backlogs in processing could only be achieved through the performance of a large number
in overtime and partly in weekend work. This permanent
However, excessive workload on the part of the staff has also led to sick leave
falls and is not sustainable as a permanent condition.

Fortunately, the budget legislator has reacted to these abuses
and for the years 2020/2021 a noticeable improvement in staffing levels
decided by the BlnBDI. While this will not result in an immediate change in the
described situation, as the posts (spread over two years) initially
written and staffed, and so will the new employees
have to be incorporated first. With the provision of the new personnel
However, there is now a tangible prospect that the tense
situation will noticeably improve over the next two years.

The new European regulations of the GDPR have led to a permanent
multiplication of the tasks of the BlnBDI. It's very gratifying that
the Berlin legislature reacted to this and by strengthening the per-
for our authority in the budget 2020/2021 a strong sign for
set the importance of data protection in Berlin.

221

18.2 From the Citizens' Submissions Service

 

18.2.1 Submission development, statistics, content
 

 

Trends, conceptual approaches

 

s
i
x
a
right
P
 
right
e
i.e
s
and
A

 

Even after the GDPR has taken effect, the processing of entries
gave one of our most important tasks. The service center for citizen submissions is
 
the first point of contact for incoming citizen submissions such as complaints,291
general information or requests for advice.

 

All receipts are first sighted in the service point, with a first
assessment is made. Both the factual and the local
consistency checked. In addition, it is checked whether the entries are complete and
all necessary documents are available.

A complaint can only be processed by us if there is a violation
against data protection laws when processing personal data
is excluded. Some of the general inquiries can be
tests can already be answered in full at the service point. the
remaining inquiries and the (completed) complaints will be
then forwarded to the relevant specialist departments for processing
ben. Should citizens contact us with concerns, where
we cannot help you further due to a lack of responsibility,
we send these to the responsible authorities such as the supervisory authorities of others
Federal states, the Federal Network Agency, to consumer protection organizations or
also to the law enforcement authorities.

 

After the emergence of complaints with the entry into force of the GDPR
initially quadrupled, the number of submissions has been at a high level ever since
remained constant. On average, almost 400 citizen petitions have been submitted every month since then
what is a tripling compared to the input figures from the time before
GDPR means.

291 Art 77 GDPR

 

222

Chapter 18 From the Office 18 2 From the Citizens' Submissions Service Office

 

A large number of the complaints are complaints regarding
data information that was not or not fully provided or because it was not provided
Deletion of personal data. Very often it is also about the receipt of
unsolicited emails and newsletters.

A large part of the incoming citizen petitions concern companies from the
rich economy such as online shops, delivery services or social networks. There-
In addition, there are also subject areas such as the housing industry, health, finance
nancial services and employee data protection are strongly represented.

 

On the one hand, we consider the increase in the number of complaints to be a
ches sign, because it shows that the citizens their
Know your rights and make use of them. However, the number of
Unfortunately, at the same time, complaints that the data protection laws
The rights of citizens are too often disregarded by companies
will.

The number of complaints is also in the second year of the effectiveness of the DS
GMOs remained consistently high. This shows that the GDPR has been in place from the start
and has had a lasting effect on those affected changing their data protection
Know your rights and assert them.

18.2.2 My Perfect Complaint - Notes on

 

Complaints Procedure

Complaints from citizens about violations of
rights are the main source for proceedings conducted by us. To those affected
To make your input easier, we offer an electronic
cal complaint form.

In order to be able to act as a service point for citizen submissions of the BlnBDI for the person concerned
In order to be able to take action, we need in particular information about the data
responsible for data processing. Due to the complexity of the data
property right is an abstract evaluation of the process without specifying the
responsible body usually not possible. The service center also requires

223

 

A
and
s
i.e
e
right
 
P
right
a
x
i
s

 

citizen submissions for the processing of the respective complaint, a precise description
Description of the facts relevant to data protection law and, of course, address
stated what the violation of data protection rights actually consisted of.

 

The submission of suitable evidence (e.g. e-mail or correspondence
with the responsible body or other documents that prove the violation
may) be helpful. This saves the person concerned from having to ask our
and thus also serves to process the complaint more quickly. Generally
should the supervisory authority be informed of measures that
have seized themselves.

The aim of most complaints procedures is to enforce an existing,
but not granted claim from the so-called data subject rights292; this against
about the person responsible for data processing
first of all the data subjects themselves. Data subjects can, for example, write to
Liable to contact authorities or private bodies and for information about the
ask them stored data. There is also the possibility of processing
to object to their data or to have the data corrected or deleted
request if the relevant conditions are met. Unless one
such concerns of the data subject on the part of the body addressed
is not met or not met in a timely manner, it has the right to contact a
to complain to the data protection supervisory authority.

The submission of documents that support the facts described can
for better assessment of the process and faster completion of the
contribute to the procedure. Especially if a violation of data protection regulations
writings due to conflicting statements from the person concerned and responsible
literal passage cannot be determined beyond doubt, the template may be more suitable
Evidence for examining the alleged data protection violation very much
be helpful and contribute to clarifying the facts and a ascertained
th infringement then, if necessary, to be punished.

292
 

Specifically, the rights to self-disclosure (Article 15 GDPR), rectification (Article 16
DS-GVO) or deletion of your own data (Art. 17 DS-GVO); also the rights to
Restriction of processing (Article 18 GDPR) or objection to it (Article 21
DS-GVO) and the right to data portability (Article 20 DS-GVO)

224

Chapter 18 From Office 18 3 Cooperation with the Berlin House of Representatives
 

 

 

Our complaint form293 lists exactly what information the
Service center for citizen submissions from the person concerned and, if necessary, other
share needed. These details can either be sent by post or also
can be sent digitally directly to the Citizens' Entries service point. a
coding also ensures data protection-compliant transmission in the latter case.
lung.

As soon as the Citizens' Entries Service Center has all the required information and
there is local jurisdiction on our part, the complaint will be
assigned to the relevant department. The specialist departments process the complaint
closing under their own responsibility, provide regular information on the status
of the procedure and grant after the end or discontinuation of the procedure
a closing message.

Thanks to the many submissions from citizens, numerous
rich data protection violations uncovered and those responsible for accounting
to be pulled. These inputs are an important tool to
ensure long-term compliance with data protection laws and
to prevent data protection violations.

18.3 Cooperation with the
 

 

 
 
Berlin House of Representatives

The Committee for Communication Technology and Data Protection (KTDat) met
in 10 meetings in which the BlnBDI comment on various topics
and could make recommendations. Subject of consideration in committee
were a Berlin transparency law,294 Jelbi – the so-called mobility app of the
BVG,295 the malware infestation at the Berlin Court of Appeal296 and the so-called
Digital Pact Schools297.

 

293 https://kontakt datenschutz-berlin de/
294 See 17 3
295 See 4 1
296 See 2 4
297 See 5 4

 
 
 
 
 

225

On the occasion of the one-year anniversary of the GDPR, the BlnBDI invited MPs
of all parties represented in parliament in the Berlin House of Representatives
24 May to a parliamentary breakfast at your office. the goal was
it to present the working methods of the authority to the parliamentarians and in particular
or the procedures changed by the new European regulations
to illustrate. In a lecture, employees presented
the individual work steps for data protection complaints with cross-border
future reference, which is carried out in close cooperation with other European supervisory
authorities are processed. In another keynote speech, the
worked on and supplemented the media-pedagogical offer of our authority, www.
data-kids.de. Afterwards there was time for the participating MPs
neten, with the data protection officer and their employees
to come and ask more questions. As the format proved to be successful
proved, further events of this kind are planned.

18.4 Cooperation with other entities

 

The 2019 conference of the independent data protection
Federal and state supervisory authorities (DSK) met on 3./4. April on the
Hambach Castle and on 6./7. November in Trier and made numerous
closures and resolutions on current issues of data protection.298 Three
Intermediate conferences took place on March 22 in Berlin and on June 25 and
October in Mainz. The after the GDPR came into effect proved its worth
revised rules of procedure of the DSK in several cases and proved to be
constructive and purposeful.

 

 

The Conference of the Freedom of Information Officers in Germany (IFK) met
on June 12 in Saarbrucken. She passed a resolution introducing a
mandatory lobby register for more transparency in the context of political

298 All resolutions and resolutions of the DSK can be found on the DSK website.

 

available: https://www datenschutzkonferenz-online de/entschlussen html https://
www datenschutzkonferenz-online de/beschluesse-dsk html

226

Chapter 18 From the office 18 5 Press work
 

 

decision-making processes and a position paper on easier information
passed in the authorities through "freedom of information by design".299
 

The Berlin Group (IWGDPT) met under our chairmanship on 9./10. April in Bled
(Slovenia) and on 10./11. October in Brussels (Belgium).300

18.5 Public Relations
 

 

The media interest in the work of our authority is also in the year 2019
increased again compared to the previous year. This year we answered
a total of 245 press inquiries. While in 2018 the general theme was the DS
GMOs and their implementation in business and administration were in the foreground,
the public was particularly interested in the specific ones this year
Effects of the GDPR. The question always came up as to whether
and to what extent we have already made use of our possibilities,
to impose sanctions under the GDPR. Three known fines
divorces301 resulted in a particularly large number of enquiries, including from the European
ic abroad.

Other topics that were of great interest to the media public
were test procedures carried out by us against the bike-sharing provider
Mobike and the video app TikTok. Also safety deficiencies in connection with the
Information systems of the Berlin police and their misuse
kept our press office busy. Our press team was
nalists and journalists are available on these and many other topics,
thus the sometimes difficult legal and data protection issues
Questions in media reporting are presented in a comprehensible and correct way
could.

299 Both documents are available on our website: https://www datenschutz-ber-

 

lin de/infothek-und-service/publications/decisions-freedom-of-information/

300 For the results see 16 2
301 See 12 1 to 12 3

 
 

227

On the occasion of the one-year anniversary of the GDPR, the BlnBDI invited journalists
journalists to a press breakfast at their office on May 23
a. In two short presentations we presented our work in the areas of
European cooperation and media education and offered the participants
This gives an insight into the tasks and working methods of our authority. At a
subsequent discussion round there was time with the data protection officer
and their employees to start a conversation and be open
to clarify questions. Since the format proved to be successful, further events
events of this kind are planned.

 

With a total of 16 press releases, the BlnBDI addressed its own
men to the public. So we made problematic legislative
plan, e.g. to introduce uniform cross-administrative personnel
identification code or the Data Protection Adaptation Act302, carefully and
informed the public about our media-pedagogical offer as well as
New releases from the Berlin Group303 on topics such as smart devices, online
Services for children and artificial intelligence.

We published the following press releases this year:
• Threatening letters from police circles - complete clarification demanded (February 6th
 
 

2019)
 

• Invitation to the Press Conference – Annual Report 2018 (March 22, 2019)
 
• Annual Report 2018 (March 28, 2019)
 
 
• Berlin data protection officer at the re:publica Netzfest (2 May 2019)
 
• Berlin Group publishes working paper on data protection and artificial intelligence
 

intelligence (May 9, 2019)
 

• Berlin Group publishes working paper on large-scale location tracking
 

(May 10, 2019)
 

• Maja Smoltczyk: Europe is the way - go vote! (May 23, 2019)
 
 
• Data Protection Adaptation Act – alleged reduction in bureaucracy is one
 
 

Milkmaid Bill (June 27, 2019)
 

302 See 14 1
303 For the results see 16 2

 
 

228

Chapter 18 From the Office 18 6 Public Relations

 

 
 
• Data protection for elementary schools - revised and expanded offer

(July 30, 2019)
 

 

• ECJ ruling on social media plugins – website operators have a duty
 
 

(July 31, 2019)

 

 

 

• Citizen-friendly administrative digitization is also possible without personal
 

sign (September 13, 2019)

• Media-pedagogical offer of the BlnBDI for the software price TOMMI no-
 

mined (September 16, 2019)

• Delivery service and online bank – Berlin data protection officer imposed
 
 

sensitive fines (September 19, 2019)

• Berlin Group publishes working paper on smart devices for children and
 
 

children's privacy in online services (October 8, 2019)

• Berlin data protection officer imposes a fine on real estate companies
 

(November 5, 2019)

 
• Data protection officer: Google Analytics and similar services only with

Permission usable (November 14, 2019)

All press releases are available on our website.304 By email to
the address presse@datenschutz-berlin.de is an entry in our press
distributor possible.

18.6 Public Relations

 

On January 28, at the invitation of the DSK, on the occasion of the 13th European Da-
tenschutztag a central event in the representation of the state of North
Rhine-Westphalia at the federal government in Berlin. The theme was “European
Data protection: opportunity or risk? Eight months DS-GVO - balance sheet and look after
front".

For the second time, on May 4th and 5th, our authority took part in the Internet
netkonferenz re:publica in Park am Gleisdreieck. In the program part “Politics
& Society” of the digital folk festival, three employees of the authority presented their

304 https://www datenschutz-berlin de/infothek-und-service/pressemitteilungen/

 

229

work on. In addition to the long-running GDPR, this year the subject of
A special focus is dedicated to service pedagogy, e.g. as part of a
Workshops entitled “Digital Natives – Digital Professionals? Privacy for children
the and youth”. At the information stand, the employees answered
and employees of our authority numerous questions from citizens
gladly, accepted suggestions and distributed information material about
data protection and freedom of information.

 

On September 7th we were again with an information stand at the day of the
open door in the House of Representatives. This year the responsibility
event in connection with the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Wall in November 1989.
As in previous years, we took this opportunity to
Citizens to get into conversation, to answer questions and
to accept suggestions. In addition to the current annual report and the
most important legal texts, visitors to the information
onsstands guide to data protection in social networks, in image, sound and
Video recordings in the day care center or to protect privacy as tenants
and take tenants with you. The big and small visitors of the
Stands could also test their knowledge of data protection in the data protection quiz
and insights into our new media education offer www.data-kids.de
take.

The conversion process of the fully overhauled
The BlnBDI children's website www.data-kids.de is now designed
closed. However, the content should also be continuously supplemented
will. The children's website offers comprehensive media-educational information
information that can be used in many ways. elementary school
der, teachers and parents will find here in addition to a child-friendly glossary of terms
also games, explanatory videos, workbooks, handicraft templates and other materials,
to help you find your way around the world of data protection. as
In addition to the children's website, we offer project
days for schools to test the materials and sensitivity to the topic
Develop data protection.305

305 See 5 6

 

230

Chapter 18 From the Office 18 6 Public Relations

 

We receive a large number of requests for advice from both public and non-public bodies
Place. Numerous general inquiries from citizens,
companies, authorities, freelancers, clubs, associations etc.
on various topics come to us. Most of them are in
related to the implementation of the GDPR. Many of these individual
Unfortunately, we had to make inquiries again this year for capacity reasons
decline.

 

Nevertheless, both the BlnBDI and its employees
more than 40 lectures this year as part of training courses, work
shops, symposiums and lectures. However, the need was and is much greater.
For example, despite numerous inquiries, only a few seminars and
Training events for data protection officers or data protection lawyers
lawyers are offered. Also the Administrative Academy Berlin,
the urgent lecturers on various topics in the field of
If you are looking for training and further education, we unfortunately had to cancel it.

 

The GDPR was at the top of the list of topics for the lectures this year
Job. Just on the subject of "One year of the General Data Protection Regulation - experience
10 lectures were held:
volumes, non-profit organizations, independent sponsors, at congresses, in specialist
shots and as part of a lecture series at the Technical University of Berlin. But there was also
numerous specialist lectures on specific questions regarding the application of the regulations of the
DS-GVO and the resulting consequences or problems:
 
• Basic principles of the GDPR
 
• GDPR “perfect complaint” requirements
• Rules of conduct according to Art. 40 GDPR
 
• Role of the works council in the context of the GDPR
 
• The GDPR in practice and from the point of view of the BlnBDI
 
• Problems of the Berlin economy with the implementation and application of the DS
 

GMOs; Suggestions for improvement and instructions for action

• European General Data Protection Regulation in child and youth welfare
 

For the 16th time, the University of Applied Sciences Berlin took place
(HTW) from November 2nd to 23rd the lecture series of the Children's University Lichtenberg

231

(KUL) - an annual offer for all inquisitive girls and boys
from the age of eight years. On Saturdays there is always the same time
Events for parents on questions of upbringing, family life and
School. We also regularly offer lectures there. On November 23, one
Information and discussion round on dealing with social media will take place, which will be great
has aroused interest. Lectures on the subject of "Data protection in social networks
ken", "Tips on data protection on the Internet" and "Check: WhatsApp - Possibility
opportunities, dangers, alternatives” are also distributed throughout the year in the
offered to interested schools as part of the KUL underway306.

Lectures and training courses on other
various data protection issues and the work of our authority. Here some
Examples:
• Data protection and information security in the work of courts and state
 

advocacy

 
• Consents in the context of employment
 
• Questions about employee data protection
• Data protection in the transport sector
 
• Structures, working methods and data protection regulations in
 
Genamt and in the Berlin Police – Opportunities and Limits of Cooperation
rations

• Current issues in data protection supervision
 
• Practice report – updates from the regulator
 
• Main features of the work, tasks and organization of the BlnBDI
 
• The enforcement practice of the supervisory authority – current affairs and prospects
 

We will continue our activities in the field of public relations and our me-
continue to expand the service-pedagogical offer in the coming years in order to
urgent need for data protection education, training and advice
to be able to comply.

 

306 KUL on the way is the children's university, which comes to the school - with lectures,
shops and ideas for excursions The free offer is aimed at various
which class or age groups and all schools in Lichtenberg and Treptow-Köpenick,
in Wuhletal and Berlin-Buch

232

Chapter 18 From the Glossary Service

2 factor
 
authentication

Proof of an individual's identity via two of the three
the following features:
1. Possession of a device exclusively for this

2. Knowledge of a secret (e.g. a password),

 

 
person has
 
that only she knows

Anonymous/Pseudonymous

3. Biometric characteristics of the person like theirs
fingerprint

Anonymous data can no longer be assigned to a person
be assigned. In the case of pseudonymous data, this is one
certain third party possible under pre-determined
laid down conditions.

apartment

Application program for mobile phones

Article-29-
 
privacy group

Chief Information
 
Security Officer (CISO)

Group according to Art. 29 European Data Protection Directive,
made up of representatives from all European
ic data protection authorities. She has
advisory function; primarily against the euro
European Commission, but also towards others
data processors within the European Union.

Responsible for the development of security
guidelines for alignment, planning and coordination
tion of measures to ensure safety
of information processed by an organization
as well as for the evaluation of the implementation of these measures
taken and the remaining risks

233

Glossary Cookie

Cookie Banner

CRO

dashcam

Double opt-in procedure

GDPR

A cookie is a text file that is used to communicate with a
Website related information on the computer
to save the users locally and
to transmit back to the website server on request
tell This means that users can
recognized and visited websites as well as time
points of the visit are assigned.

Banners are graphic or animation files that are included in the
are integrated into the website and either appear at the edge
appear or lay across the webpage. in the
gel contain this advertisement. Cookie banner included
usually notes on the use of cookies and are
usually provided with a simple "OK" button.

CRO stands for Clinical Research Organization
tragsforschungsinstitut). This is a
Service companies for the medicines and
Medical device manufacturing industry, which the
Research and development of drugs or
medical products in the course of planning and implementation
supported by clinical studies.

A dashcam is a video camera that is
dashboard or on the wind
protective window of a vehicle is attached.

Double opt-in procedure refers to a process in which
the user after entering their contact data
th in a distributor this in a separate second
have to confirm the step again. Mostly this becomes
an email message asking for confirmation
sent the given contact details. There-
In addition, a confirmation can also be sent by SMS or
be done by phone.

European General Data Protection Regulation − The data
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a regulation
tion of the European Union, with which the rules for
Processing of personal data by private
companies and public bodies across the EU

234

glossary. On the one hand, this is intended to protect
personal data within the European
Union ensured, on the other hand the free data transfer
traffic within the European single market
be achieved. The regulation replaces the
1995 Directive 95/46/EC on protection
natural persons in the processing of personal
related data and free data traffic. she is
already came into force on May 24, 2016, but was
due to a two-year transition period only on 25.
Effective May 2018. Since then it has been available in all member states
of the European Union directly applicable.

The data protection conference (DSK) consists of the
dependent federal data protection authorities and
the countries. It has the task of data protection
to uphold and protect fundamental rights, a unity
common application of the European and national
to achieve data protection law and together for
to enter into its further development. This happens after
mentally through resolutions, resolutions,
planning aids, standardization, statements,
Press Releases and Determinations.

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is a
independent European body that contributes to
common application of the data protection regulations in the
whole European Union contributes and the cooperation
work between the EU data protection authorities
that. The EDPB consists of representatives of the national
data protection authorities and the European Data
Protection Officer (EDPS).

Recitals are statements by the legislature
to the actual legal text, which this regular
to be attached to European legislation.

"Electronic Identity" - This is a
NEN electronic proof of identity (with chip), with
whose help electronic processes are carried out
can.

235

DSK

EDSA

EC / Recital

oath

Glossary end-to-end
 
encryption

fan page

firmware

common
 
federal committee

The content of a data transmission is encrypted
rare that only the receiver specified by the sender
decrypt the data d. H. make readable again
can. intermediate stations such as B. E-mail provider se-
only encrypted data.

Facebook fan page: A Facebook fan page is the
sence of brands, companies, organizations and
Public figures in the social
Network Facebook, which serves the company
or the brand etc. in the network using the dated
network provided communication
means to market, e.g. B. by changing the side of Face-
book users recommended or
shared in the "circle of friends" of the users
becomes. The fan page is also a public profile and
can be accessed by people outside the network
will; it will appear in the relevant search engines
NEN indexed, i. H. listed in the result list. in the
In contrast to the profile page, which is created by private
is used, it is not about "befriending" but
therefore, with the help of the page z. B. directly with customers in the
to communicate in the network or to collect "fans".
 

A device's firmware is software stored in electronic
niche devices is embedded to their basic
to ensure function. It is by user/
inside not or only with special means or radio
functions interchangeable. Firmware is functionally fixed with
connected to the hardware; one is without the other
not usable.

The Federal Joint Committee (GBA) is
the four major self-governing organizations, the
National Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians, the Kassenzahn-
medical association, the German health
hausgesellschaft and the central association Bund der
formed health insurance companies. He is the supreme decision-
body of joint self-government in Germany
schen health system and determined in the form of
Guidelines for quality assurance measures for
xen and hospitals.

236

Glossary geodata

GovData

Digital geological data, e.g. in navigation systems
be processed.

Data portal for Germany, which has a central and
Uniform content-related access to administrative data
from the federal, state and local governments that provide these
accessible in their respective open data portals
have power.

GPS / GPS transmitter

global positioning system; German: Global Posi-
on determination system

hash function

hash value

It is a cryptographic hash function
is a mathematical calculation rule,
from any output data such as
a document or even just a word or a
Phone number a unique check value with fixed
length calculated. This calculation is not inverse
bar – the output data can be derived from the test values
cannot be calculated back. In case of repeated
calculation with the same initial data results in
but always the same test value.

The hash value is the result (the check value) of the
use of a [above] cryptographic hash function.
This is a mathematical
arithmetic rule, which from any starting data
such as a document or just a
a unique word or telephone number
Fixed-length hash value calculated.

Informed consent "Informed consent" refers to an
declaration of consent, in which the users
detailed, complete information about the planned
processing of your data, its type, scope and purpose
have then clearly consented to the processing of these.

integrity

Understands the preservation of the integrity of data
to protect them from accidental loss or
unintentional falsification or the correct function
tion of systems.

237

Glossary IP address

IT architecture

coherence method

LABO

LaGeSo

link

Market place principle

Internet protocol address = the address of a computer
ters on the internet

Determining the composition of information technology
nical systems from different components and
their interaction

If no consensus can be reached in the one-stop-shop procedure between
found by the supervisory authorities involved
can be, the European data protection
shot within the framework of the coherence procedure
che resolutions. In addition, in the coherence
proceed with the aim of uniform application
of the DS-GVO also opinions of the European
Data Protection Committee − for example to determine
Standard data protection clauses - coordinated.

 

The State Office for Citizens and Regulatory Affairs
unite is one of the Senate Department for the Interior and
Sports Subordinate Authority. It's for citizens
and citizens, companies and authorities on the
offer reparation, civil status
and population and motor vehicle affairs
employed.

The State Office for Health and Social Affairs is one of the
Senate Department for Integration, Labor and Social Affairs
subordinate authority. It is in the task
chen health, social and supply.

Link or jump to an electronic document
ment

The GDPR is applicable as soon as a company
Goods and services for people in the euro
European Union offers or the behavior of citizens
observed by the public and in this
menhang personal data processed. Of the
The scope of the GDPR also covers this
non-European companies operating on the European
ic market, even if they are not
authorized in the European Union. By the

238

Glossary messenger service

metadata

microblogging

Neural Networks

One stop shop

Market location principle should be uniform
ments are created for all companies that
goods and services on the European market
offer gene.

Telecommunications service involving two or more
Participant text messages (possibly also audio or
video messages and other files) so exchange
ensure that the news is as immediate as possible
reach the recipients.

The data generated during data transmission and
is divided into content data – for example the text
an e-mail - and all other so-called metadata that the
relate to communication circumstances, d. H. Time,
Sender, recipient, locations for mobile devices
ten as well as technical addresses/identification numbers of the
devices used for communication.

Microblogging uses short SMS-like texts
created in a blog or short message service
to be set. It doesn't work with microblogging
about going thematically in-depth, but
within a short time and without great effort
set up to produce all kinds.

Artificial neural networks are usually attached to the
organizational principles and the learning processes of
human brain oriented computer models.

The one-stop shop principle means that both
every citizen and every company
can contact the local supervisory authority.
This also applies in particular if personal
Genetic data are processed across borders, e.g.
B. through social networks or other international
operating companies. The supervisory authority at which a
complaint has been filed, the
guide about the status and the result of the
procedure. For companies with offices in
different Member States is the supervisory authority

239

Glossary at the headquarters of the central contact
partner. All these supervisory authorities are on
involved in regulatory procedures and respect
together ensure that the rights of citizens
citizens are preserved.

Databases that are available to citizens
as the economy without restriction to free circulation
be made freely accessible for further use.

open data

Open government

Opening of the state and administration to the citizens
citizens and the economy

Opt-in / Opt-out

opt-out model

pixel

PNR data

Pre-recording function

Opt-in means that data processing is only permitted
is when the data subject expressly consents to it
has decided, i.e. usually given their consent
gave. In the case of an opt-out procedure, on the other hand,
the data subject to expressly take action in order to
prevent data processing.

"Opt-Out Model" means a procedure that
consent if not within a
objected to within a predetermined period of time.

Small graphics on websites, which are usually only 1×1 Pi-
xel measure and when calling up a website from a
servers are loaded. The download will be regis-
and can be used for evaluations in the field of online
line marketing can be used.

PNR stands for Passenger Name Record. These are flight
guest records, which include contact, travel, and
Payment information also information on nutrition
ing habits and the state of health of the
travelers can count.

Denotes the recording and storage of a
pre-allocated time range in an endless loop, i.
i.e. it is a recording function
which is already a few seconds before pressing the recording
drawing button, the data is saved.

240

Glossary Privacy by Default

Privacy by design

profiling

test value

pseudonymize

public consultation

Products are made with the most privacy-friendly
delivered with presets.

The manufacturers already take data protection into account
in the manufacture and development of products.

Profiling includes any type of automated evaluation
certain personal aspects of a natural
chen person to understand. About these aspects
such as work performance, the economic situation, the
Health, personal preferences, the interests that
reliability, conduct, whereabouts or
possible changes of location of a person belong. target of
profiling is to carry out an analysis in this regard
men or to make a prediction. profiling is coming
e.g. B. in the field of advertising and in the initiation of contracts
used, but the police are also increasingly using
based on corresponding prediction methods.

The test value is determined using an irreversible cryptic
tographic hash function from the phone number
calculates.

Pseudonymizing is replacing identifying
Information such as name, address, date of birth or other
re clear identifiers or characteristics by a
other designation (e.g. a consecutive number) of
art that an inference to the person without knowledge
the assignment rule or only with disproportionate
is possible with moderate effort.

dt. public consultation - before the adoption
of guidelines, the European data protection
schuss (EDSA) through public consultations in order to
views and concerns of all stakeholders,
Stakeholders, citizens to be heard.
Usually, guidelines are made prior to their final
Adoption published on the EDPB website
public. Then there is usually for six to eight
weeks the opportunity to comment on the guideline.

241

Glossary source code

ring memory

score value

sensitive data

Social Plugins

Mainly business associations and
take advantage of this opportunity. The ESDA
but also receives feedback from civil society
groups and citizens. After expiration
During the consultation phase, the EDPB decides which
Change requests are taken into account.

The program code (technical basis) of a software
were

A ring memory stores data continuously in a
a certain period of time and overwrites them
expiry of a specified time again in order to
to free up some space for new data.

Numerical value representing the credit worthiness of a
person describes. The score value is
and credit bureaus using a mathematical
table-statistical method and serves as
Basis for contract decisions.

Special Types of Personal Data. for this purpose
hear information about the racial and ethnic origin
origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical
physical beliefs, union membership,
health or sex life.

Social plugins or social media plugins connect
the websites or apps with social networks.
Operators add a program
code into the source code of your website or app, the
automatically data on the operator of the social network
factory sends and retrieves data from this. The operator
About the social network learns what the
Visitors to the website are interested
and can create personality profiles by means of profiling
create and personalize ads. The operator
can indicate, for example, that acquaintances of the web
site visitor or the website visitor
Liked the website. Through social

242

Glossary Social Sphere

telematics tariff

tracking

Plugins can cause network effects in particular
Significant visits to websites and in the
As a result, significant sales are regularly generated.

The social sphere is the area in which man
is in exchange with other people.
This is both private and professional
area includes.

Insurance tariff, the contribution of which depends on the
Vehicle usage is calculated. Be included
e.g. B. the number of night trips, trips in risky
Areas or on accident-prone roads and the
Compliance with maximum speeds and the
acceleration behavior. For this purpose, an intensive
electronic monitoring of vehicle activities
and transmission of the data to the insurance company. This
Tariffs are also referred to as “pay as you drive” tariffs
draws.

is

tracking
in understanding of the data protection
supervisory authorities the logging and evaluation of the
behavior of visitors
Websites or apps for generally website-wide
sweeping follow-up. The areas of application
range from a pure range measurement
statistical evaluation according to browser, operating
system, language settings and country of residence
and website usability tests
for detailed observation and recording of all
physical mouse movements and inputs as well as for web
cross-site and cross-device creation of user
Development and personality profiles for advertising purposes.

Tracking / cookie walls

Preventing the use of a website if you do not
accept cookies

behaviour rules

english Code of conduct - This is an in-
instrument of self-regulation. According to Art. 41 GDPR
Associations and other associations can behave
develop tens rules with which the application of the

243

Glossary Traffic Data

wearable

WIFI base stations

WiFi tracking

DS-GVO is specified. task of the supervisory authorities
is to authorize the elaboration of such codes of conduct
promote and approve.

Technical information when using a
Telecommunications service incurred, such as a
Phone call calling and called phone number
mer, start and end of the connection and for telephone
also the location in the mobile network. Also as
called connection data.

Wearable computers, or wearables for short, are
computers that are so small that they don't have a room
still need a desk, but
e.g. B. worn as a bracelet and glasses or in clothing
can be incorporated. During the application
Are they attached to the user's body and often-
connected directly to the internet. So e.g. B.
a blood pressure monitor, which is permanent or over
worn on the arm for a longer period of time,
out as a device from the field of wearable computing
be designated.

device for wireless data transmission; will mostly
used for wired internet access
mobile devices nearby using the internet
allow without having to connect cables.

A technique with which the movement of people
can be tracked using location data that
using the smartphone of these people
are recorded.

244

Glossary Index

A
Query reason | 64
MPs | 73
House of Representatives | 226, 230
Subscription Agreement | 82
Voting procedure | 44
Address Book | 19
Address data | 130
Address Rental | 31
Accreditation Criteria | 147
Algorithms | 25, 29
anti-virus software | 59
Archive system | 126
Article 29 Working Party | 186
Medical practices | 104
Asset deal | 137
retention period | 103, 122, 126
Termination Agreement | 120
Regulatory Authority | 41, 197, 200, 204
Order processing | 142, 180
Information requests | 65
Right to information | 119, 124, 170
Blocking information | 72
B
Consultation Requests | 231
Berlin.de | 190
Berlin Data Protection Act | 172
Berlin state law | 194
Berlin Constitution | 203
Berlin Group | 213

Berlin PC | 55
employment relationship | 123
Complaint | 222, 224
Complaint Form | 225
Complaints Office | 112
Complaints Procedure | 139
Caregiver property | 154
Rights of data subjects | 20,
162, 165, 171, 195
Transaction Data | 80, 83
Application documents | 122
Internal Market Information System | 41
biometric data | 158
Credit Check | 80
Brexit | 209
Federal Data Protection Act | 31
fine concept | 35
fine framework | 39
fine proceedings | 67, 161, 164
Fine assessment | 36
C
Cloud Services | 100
co-working | 128
D
Dash Cam Recordings | 160
data breach | 206
Data Protection Officer | 59
Privacy Policy | 33
Data Protection Impact Assessment | 101

245

index

   

General Data Protection Regulation | 29,
48, 88, 107, 145, 169
Privacy Conference |
26, 167, 209, 226
Privacy Policy | 173
Data breach | 43
Deutsche Bahn | 156
Deutsche Wohnen SE | 126, 164
Supervision | 203
digital key board | 52
Digital Supply Act | 99
direct mail | 140
Third Party Content | 179, 189, 192
Threatening letters | 61
E
E-Government Law | 58
Consent | 33, 75, 89, 96,
109, 135, 177, 184
Declaration of Consent | 89, 113, 149
Email Promotion | 86
decision system | 30
ECJ decision | 174, 188
European guidelines | 146, 197, 201
European data protection
committee | 35, 197
f
Facebook Fan Pages | 185
Specialist procedure ISBJ | 90
family planning | 151
Refugee Management | 113
assignment of claims | 138
Research | 95, 108
Photographs | 89, 128

G
trade secret | 216
Health App | 99
Health Data | 105, 109
health card | 117
Sweepstakes Offer | 173
Google Analytics | 180
size classes | 37
HI
Hambach Declaration | 26
Action Guide | 90
shadowing | 73
Identity Verification | 117
ICT basic service | 49
Imprint | 140
Freedom of Information | 215
Duty to inform | 110
Information Security | 100
Information System | 62
debt collection company | 130
Balancing interests | 76, 137, 177
International Conference | 214
Internet offer | 174
IT service center | 53
J
Annual sales | 38
Jelbi App | 79
youth welfare office | 91
Youth Welfare Files | 96
K
Association of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians | 105
Children's website | 97, 230

246

Index Class Chat | 18
coherence method | 45
Communication Patterns | 18
Contact details | 77
Account opening | 152
Cooperation Procedures | 44
Obligation to bear costs | 108
hospital | 102
Lending | 151
catalog of criteria | 39
Customer Data | 32, 136
Customer Accounts | 192
Customer Satisfaction Surveys | 86
Artificial Intelligence | 24
L
Like button | 188
list procedure | 183
Lobby Register | 215
Deletion Concept | 193
Moratorium on deletion | 63
Obligation to delete | 127
M
media literacy | 97, 220
Reporting data reconciliation | 168
Reporting obligation | 206
Register of residents | 68, 71
Residential Register Query | 69
Population register data | 167
Messenger Application | 21
Messenger Services | 17, 22
tenancy | 126
Membership Recruitment | 76
Mobike App | 83

mobile service devices | 58
Mobility Partners | 80
N
Solidarity Night | 114
local transport companies | 82
Netfest | 229
Newsletter dispatch | 85
Usage Data | 176
O
public key | 51
Opening clauses | 169, 195
One stop shop principle | 41
Online Services | 133, 163, 210
Online Access Act | 47
opt-out model | 138
Orientation Guide | 177
P
parliamentary breakfast | 226
Patient Record | 107
Patient Data | 102
Identity card copy | 152
Personal Identification | 69
mistaken identity | 69, 131
Pilot Projects | 157
Police Databases | 61
Press Inquiries | 227
Press Breakfast | 228
Press Releases | 228
private key | 51
Profiling | 213
logging | 65
Check scheme | 55

247

Index U
Monitoring sites | 147
unsolicited advertising | 33
Company concept | 37
V
Events | 229
Consumer Information Act | 132
Rules of Conduct | 145
Traffic Data | 19
Encryption | 50
Confidentiality Agreement | 73
Confidentiality | 50
Administrative Digitization | 48
Management Portals | 47
video surveillance | 156, 197
Lecture Series | 231
Board Members | 152
W
Promotional Letter | 31
WhatsApp | 18
whatsapp group | 123
Windows 10 | 54
basic economic value | 38
Z
access control | 157
access control | 64
Purpose | 111
earmarking | 27, 120

Q/R
Quality Assurance | 106
Registration Process | 144
reach measurement | 180
Broadcasting Amendment State Treaty | 168
Broadcasters | 168
S
sanction practice | 161
sanction procedure | 220
Malware Emotet | 56
School Data Regulation | 94
student ticket | 82
Severely Disabled Passport | 116
Service Account Berlin | 49
Citizens' Submissions Service | 219
Service point Europaangele
things | 40, 43, 220
smart devices | 211
smart phone | 22, 210
Social Data | 95
savings banks | 148
Sports Portal | 77
Standard Contractual Clauses | 84
Tax Advice Act | 142
T
Telemedia | 178
Telemedia Act | 174
Telemetry Data | 54
appointment management | 104
Pot Secret | 132
training data | 26
Transparency | 26, 29, 49, 132, 149, 160
Transparency Act | 217

248

index