 

 

Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment 
20 Fenchurch Street  
London  
EC3M 3BY 
 
By email only to: 
 
21 February 2023 
 
Dear 

  

 

Case Reference Number INV/0158/2020 

I write to inform you that the Information Commissioner’s Office (‘ICO’) has now 
completed its investigation into the personal data breach reported by the 
Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment (‘CISI’) on 16 April 2020. 
 
The case has been considered under the General Data Protection Regulation (the 
GDPR) due to the nature of the processing involved. 
 
For more information about our powers under the data protection legislation 
please see the attached leaflet.  
 

• ICO Enforcement Powers Leaflet – GDPR and DPA 2018 

 
Case Summary 

It is my understanding that on 17 February 2020, an unauthorised third party 
exploited a known vulnerability in the Sitefinity software to leverage a bruteforce 
attack to upload a malicious code to CISI’s website checkout page. The code 
captured payment details of an estimated 3,883 UK Data Subjects, as well as 
other personal data including names and email addresses. 

CISI instructed a third party to conduct a forensic investigation which found that 
CISI were running unsupported software which had a number of vulnerabilities, 
one of which was a critical vulnerability for which a security patch had been 
available since 2017. CISI also advised that no penetration tests had been 
conducted prior to the incident, and that 654 Data Subjects had reported 
fraudulent activities on the payment cards affected by the incident.  

It is also my understanding that CISI may have missed opportunities to identify 
the data breach earlier, as a number of individuals had reported card fraud prior 
to a group notification 14 April 2020, at which point CISI conducted a full 
investigation.  

 

 

 

 
 

 
Our consideration of this case 
 
The ICO has investigated whether CISI has complied with the requirements of 
the data protection legislation. 
 
After careful consideration and based on the information obtained during the 
investigation, we intend to issue CISI with a reprimand in accordance with Article 
58 (2) (b) of the GDPR for the reasons set out in this letter. 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that CISI notified affected Data 
Subjects and offered access to credit monitoring. CISI also offered financial 
compensation to Data Subjects who expressed severe detriment, and covered 
expenses for items such as new bank cards or banks not refunding costs 
incurred. 
 
We have also considered and welcome the remedial steps taken by CISI in the 
light of this incident. In particular, CISI: 
 

•  Installed additional security measures in the form of a web application 

firewall 

•  Updating impacted software to the latest version 

The proposed reprimand 
 
We have provisionally decided to issue a reprimand to CISI in respect of the 
following alleged infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 32 (1) which states taking into account the state of the art, the 

costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of 
processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the 
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the processor 
shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk. 
 

•  Article 32 (1) (b) which states that a Data Controller should have the ability 
to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of 
processing systems and services. 
 

•  Article 32 (1) (d) which states that a Data Controller should have a process 
for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical 
and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing. 

 

 

 

 
 

In particular, we have provisionally found that: 

•  CISI did not implement appropriate organisational measures to ensure 

their systems were secure. CISI did not implement timely security 
upgrades to the website, which itself had reached the end of enterprise 
support at the time of the incident. NCSC guidance highlights the 
importance of an effective vulnerability management process.1 
 

•  CISI were not conducting regular security testing prior to the incident. No 

penetration testing or web application scanning had been conducted. NCSC 
guidance sets out the need to conduct regular scanning, and identifies the 
different scans available to businesses.2  

In conclusion, we have provisionally decided to issue a reprimand to CISI in 
relation to the alleged infringements of Article 32 of the UK GDPR. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that the Chartered Institute for Securities & 
Investment should take steps to ensure it is compliant with UK GDPR. The 
information above details the compliance issues relevant to this investigation.  
 
With particular reference to Article 32 of the UK GDPR, the following steps are 
recommended: 
 

•  Implement a testing procedure which sets out the timings and nature of 

testing to be conducted. 

•  Implement a patching policy to ensure that vulnerabilities are identified 

and managed accordingly. 

•  Identify who is responsible for managing the patching policy, ensuring 

responsible staff are aware of their obligations. 

The guidance provided in this reprimand should be closely considered by the 
Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment.  
 
We publish information in accordance with our Communicating Regulatory and 
Enforcement Activity Policy, which is available online at the following link: 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-
theico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico enforcement communications policy.pdf 

1NCSC Vulnerability Management – NCSC.GOV.UK  
2Vulnerability Scanning Tools and Services – NCSC.GOV.UK 

 

 

 

