press release

Freedom of information at the TLfDI is 10 years!

 

 

 

Erfurt, December 21, 2022

 
There is something to celebrate at the TLfDI: The Thuringian State Commissioner for the

Freedom of Information celebrates its 10th anniversary on December 29, 2022

Function. At that time, the Thuringian Freedom of Information Act (ThürIFG) came into force.

by the state government

should with the then ThürIFG

paradigm shift in Thuringia's administration.

What has happened since then?: In the beginning, the ThürIFG was just a small building block

to get official information from Thuringian authorities. It was for that

required that the citizen submit an application. Disclosure requirements for

However, there were only rudimentary public bodies. In the meantime, Hamburg had

and Rhineland-Palatinate showed that authorities proactively process official information,

due to the transparency laws in force there - as an extension of the

Freedom of Information Laws – required by law to provide. Thuringia

followed this legal expansion of the right to freedom of information relatively quickly

and, following a proposal by the TLfDI 2019, brought a Thuringian Transparency Act

(ThürTG), which came into force on January 1st, 2020. With the expansion of

Freedom of information law in Thuringia, Thuringian authorities are proactive in the

Obligation to publish official information, even if there is no request for it

access to information is available. Municipalities should also proactively receive information from

publish in the general interest, but are not obliged to include them in the

Thuringian transparency portal to set up. A model project by the Thuringian

Ministry of Interior and Municipal Affairs, which encourages municipalities to participate in the

should support the transparency portal has not brought any breakthrough for more

Freedom of information, since it was financially completely inadequate and

consequently only one municipality showed interest in the project.

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
In addition, the Thuringian State Commissioner for Freedom of Information

the new ThürTG also has the authority to monitor compliance with the statutory

Provisions for the Thuringian Environmental Information Act (ThürUIG) transferred.

Since the ThürTG is still a relatively young law in Thuringia, this is not the case yet

Arrived everywhere in the consciousness of the Thuringian authorities, and the TLfDI

mainly handles complaints, which the Thuringian authorities unfortunately still have to deal with

show no awareness of transparency and predominantly access to official

Refuse information, although despite legal examination of the TLfDI always

again a legal claim emerges.

Summary of Dr. Lutz Hasse, State Commissioner for Freedom of Information:

"Thuringia is compared to other federal states, such as Bavaria and Lower Saxony,

who do not yet have a Freedom of Information Act/Transparency Act,

well positioned. Nevertheless, the potential of the ThürTG has not yet been fully exploited

as imagined by the Thuringian legislature. This can be increased!

An evaluation report for the ThürTG should be available by the end of 2024, in which the TLfDI

will also contribute his practical experience. In this context

I also refer to my activity reports, which my authority submits every year

ThürTG published. In it I also critically comment on my practical experience, what

not yet running smoothly when applying the ThürTG. Still, I see them positively

future, that the awareness of transparency in Thuringian authorities - also through the

Activities of my authority - continue to grow and the information needs of the

Thuringian citizens will correspond. In cooperation with the Thuringian

The state media authority will try to increase the attractiveness of the fundamental right of the TLfDI

Increase freedom of information by having the perhaps somewhat dry and

confusing legal matter of the ThürTG also understandable in films and videos

will represent, and thus the democratically relevant significance of this basic right

to be shown more clearly.

 

 

 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

