

Bonn/Berlin, December 5th, 2019


Press release 29/2019


  EDSA 2019 - Data Protection for Europe
The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) published first guidelines on the right to be forgotten at its last meeting in 2019. These follow a number of landmark decisions made by the committee this year, for example on issues such as video surveillance, accreditation and certification, or privacy by design and default.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Ulrich Kelber, looks back with satisfaction on his first year at the EDPB:
The decisions and guidelines adopted by the EDPB in 2019 show what we can achieve in the European dialogue to protect the privacy of citizens. We must further expand this cooperation between the European data protection supervisory authorities. Above all, it must be possible to effectively enforce the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) against the large international IT companies. For this reason, the BfDI will also use some of the newly approved positions to further strengthen its European and international committee work.
At the last meeting of this year, the EDPB adopted, among other things, the first part of a joint guideline on the right to be forgotten. This explains how people can enforce their right against search engine operators to be completely or partially deleted from their result lists. The topicality of this subject, which is important in terms of data protection law, is also evidenced, among other things, by two decisions by the Federal Constitutional Court last week.
On the fringes of the FDPB, the BfDI also met again with its Swiss counterpart, the Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner (FDPIC) Adrian Lobsiger, to find out about the current status of developments on the subject of LIBRA. The FDPIC is currently working intensively on Facebook's efforts to enter the banking business and is looking for a close exchange with its European colleagues.
The EDPB will continue to deal with important data protection issues in the coming year. In particular, the first decisions on complaints against Facebook and WhatsApp are expected. An overview of the papers passed by the EDPB can be found at
https://edpb.europa.eu/edpb_de.






contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











