DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

TO: Chelmer Valley High School 

REPRIMAND 

OF: Court Road, Broomfield, Chelmsford, Essex, SM1 7ER 

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to Chelmer Valley High School in accordance with Article 
58(2)(b) of the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in 
respect of certain infringements of the UK GDPR.  

The reprimand 

1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Chelmer Valley 
High School in respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 

• Article 35(1) of the UK GDPR which states a controller shall, prior to

the processing, carry out an assessment of the impact of the
envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal data,
where this processing is likely to result in a high risk to the rights
and freedoms of natural persons.

1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below. 

1.4 The controller, Chelmer Valley High School, are an academy school 
located in Essex providing education for around 1,200 students ages 11 to 
18. This reprimand concerns the processing of biometric personal data for
the purposes of managing their cashless catering system.

1.5 Chelmer Valley High School introduced facial recognition technology in 
March 2023. Prior to this, their cashless catering was managed through 
fingerprint recognition technology, which had been in place since 2016. 
The facial recognition technology was provided to Chelmer Valley High 
School by CRB Cunninghams, which acts as a processor on behalf of 
Chelmer Valley High School. 

1.6 On 29 January 2024 Chelmer Valley High School’s Data Protection 
Officer (DPO) ‘IGS’ contacted the Commissioner and provided a DPIA that 
had been completed in November 2023. IGS considered the processing to 

1 

be high risk, and submitted the DPIA for review. IGS confirmed that no 
DPIA had been completed for the introduction of facial recognition 
technology prior to the processing commencing in March 2023. 
 
1.7  Through further correspondence with IGS it was established that 
from March to November 2023 the controller had been relying on 
assumed consent for facial recognition, except where parents or carers 
had opted children out of the processing. Article 4(11) of the UK GDPR is 
clear that consent requires an affirmative action, and as such consent on 
an opt-out basis would not have been valid or lawful. Further to this, the 
majority of students would have been considered sufficiently competent 
to provide their own consent. The parental opt-out deprived students of 
the ability to exercise their rights and freedoms in relation to the 
processing between March and November 2023.  
 
1.8 The controller also failed to seek advice from their DPO in relation to 
the introduction of the facial recognition technology, nor did they consult 
with parents or students before commencing with the processing. The 
Commissioner believes that had Chelmer Valley High School sought 
advice from their DPO, many of the compliance issues would have been 
identified prior to the processing commencing.   
 
1.9 Under Article 35(4), the Commissioner has published a list of 
processing activities that require a DPIA to be completed prior to the 
processing. The Commissioner’s published list states that the processing 
of biometric data requires a DPIA where this is combined with any of the 
criteria from the European guidelines1. These guidelines include the 
processing of data concerning vulnerable data subjects (such as children), 
and the use of new technological solutions.  
 
2.0 Chelmer Valley High School has therefore failed to complete a DPIA 
where they were legally required to do so. This failing meant that no prior 
assessment was made of the risks to data subjects, no consideration was 
given to lawfully managing consent, and students at the school were then 
left unable to properly exercise their rights and freedoms.  
 
2.1 Chelmer Valley High School were invited to provide representations. 
Chelmer Valley High School failed to provide any representations. 
 

1 JUSTICE AND CONSUMERS ARTICLE 29 - Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) 
(wp248rev.01) (europa.eu) 

 

 

2 

Remedial steps taken by Chelmer Valley High School 
 
2.2 The Commissioner has considered and welcomes some of the 
remedial steps taken by Chelmer Valley High School. In particular, the 
completion of a DPIA in November 2023 and refreshing of consents by 
obtaining explicit opt-in consent from students.  
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
2.3 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to 
Chelmer Valley High School in relation to the infringements of Article 
35(1) of the UK GDPR set out above.  
 
2.4 While several areas of non-compliance are apparent, the 
Commissioner has decided to focus on the controller’s actions prior to the 
processing. The completion of a comprehensive DPIA before the 
processing commenced would have provided Chelmer Valley High School 
with the opportunity to asses the risks of the processing, and avoid the 
subsequent compliance failures.  
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
2.5 The Commissioner has set out below certain recommendations which 
may assist Chelmer Valley High School in rectifying the infringements 
outlined in this reprimand and ensuring Chelmer Valley High School’s 
future compliance with the UK GDPR. Please note that these 
recommendations do not form part of the reprimand and are not legally 
binding directions. As such, any decision by Chelmer Valley High School to 
follow these recommendations is voluntary for Chelmer Valley High 
School. For the avoidance of doubt, Chelmer Valley High School is of 
course required to comply with its obligations under the law.  
 
2.6 If in the future the ICO has grounds to suspect that Chelmer Valley 
High School is not complying with data protection law, any failure by 
Chelmer Valley High School to rectify the infringements set out in this 
reprimand (which could be done by following the Commissioner’s 
recommendations or taking alternative appropriate steps) may be taken 
into account as an aggravating factor in deciding whether to take 
enforcement action - see page 11 of the Regulatory Action Policy  
Regulatory Action Policy (ico.org.uk) and Article 83(2)(i) of the UK GDPR. 

 

3 

 
2.7 The Commissioner recommends that Chelmer Valley High School 
should consider taking certain steps to improve its compliance with UK 
GDPR. With particular reference to Article 35 of the UK GDPR, the 
following steps are recommended: 
 

1.  Prior to new processing operations, or upon changes to the nature, 

scope, context or purposes of processing for activities that pose a 
high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, complete a 
DPIA and integrate outcomes back into the project plans. Types of 
processing that require a DPIA to be completed can be found in our 
website guidance.  

2.  Amend the DPIA to give thorough consideration to the necessity and 

proportionality of cashless catering, and to mitigating specific, 
additional risks such as bias and discrimination. 

3.  Review and follow all ICO guidance for schools considering whether 

to use facial recognition for cashless catering. A case study on North 
Ayrshire Council schools and their use of facial recognition 
technology can be found on our website.  

4.  Amend privacy information given to students so that it provides for 
their information rights under the UK GDPR in an appropriate way. 

5.  Engage more closely and in a timely fashion with their DPO when 
considering new projects or operations processing personal data, 
and document their advice and any changes to the processing that 
are made as a result. 

 
 

 

4 

