1/30

 File No.: PS/00001/2022

IMI Reference: A56ID 172880- Case Register 79805

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) on December 15,
2020 filed a complaint with the Austrian data protection authority. The
The claim is directed against VACACIONES EDREAMS S.L., with NIF B61965778 (in
forward, EDREAMS). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party has requested the deletion of their personal data through the
OPODO service, owned by EDREAMS. In response, you have received emails
automated emails but your personal data has not been removed. The part
Claimant considers this response insufficient.

Along with the claim, provide:

- Screen print of an email dated October 28, 2020, from the
email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which you request the deletion of your personal data and
carry out the steps so that the partners to whom their data has been transferred,
delete them too.

- Screenshot of an automatic email dated October 28, 2020 from
the email address no-reply@contact.opodo.com, in which you will be
Thank you for contacting Opodo, you are told that your request will be processed as soon as possible.
as soon as possible, you are informed that you can manage your reservation electronically and
recommends you visit their Help Center for more information.

- Screen print of an email dated November 9, 2020, from the
email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that he has not yet received a response to his request.

- Screen print of an email to the address of the complaining party, dated 12
November 2020 from the email address customerservice-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which you are given instructions to obtain a refund
of your flight.

- Screen print of an email dated November 13, 2020, from the
email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that it is the third time he has requested the deletion
of your personal data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/30

- Screenshot of an automatic email dated November 13, 2020
from the email address no-reply@contact.opodo.com, in which you will be
Thank you for contacting Opodo, you are told that your request will be processed as soon as possible.
as soon as possible, you are informed that you can manage your reservation electronically and
recommends you visit their Help Center for more information.

- Screen print of an email dated November 24, 2020, from the
email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that it is the fourth time that he has requested the deletion
of your personal data.

- Screenshot of an email dated November 25, 2020 from the
email address no-reply@contact.opodo.com, in which you are told
that to complete your registration process as a premium member you must contact
telephone form.

- Screenshot of an email dated November 27, 2020, from the
email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that it is the fifth time he has requested the deletion
of your personal data.

- Screenshot of an automatic email dated November 27, 2020
from the email address no-reply@contact.opodo.com, in which you will be
Thank you for contacting Opodo, you are told that your request will be processed as soon as possible.
as soon as possible, you are informed that you can manage your reservation electronically and
recommends you visit their Help Center for more information.

SECOND: Through the "Internal Market Information System" (hereinafter
IMI), regulated by Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 25, 2012 (IMI Regulation), whose objective is to promote the
cross-border administrative cooperation, mutual assistance between States
members and the exchange of information, the aforementioned claim was transmitted on the 29th
December 2020 and was given a registration date at the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection (AEPD) that same day. The transfer of this claim to the
AEPD is carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 56 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the
Protection of Natural Persons with regard to Data Processing
Personal Information and the Free Circulation of these Data (hereinafter, GDPR), taking
into account its cross-border nature and that this Agency is competent to act
as the main control authority, given that EDREAMS has its registered office and
unique establishment in Spain.

According to the information incorporated into the IMI System, in accordance with the
established in article 60 of the GDPR, act as a "control authority
data subject”, in addition to the Austrian data protection authority, the data protection authority
data protection of Norway, Belgium, Italy, France, Denmark and the authority
German Berlin, all of them under article 4.22 of the GDPR, since the
Data subjects residing in those Member States are affected or are likely to
that are substantially affected by the treatment object of the present
procedure.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/30

THIRD: On January 25, 2021, in accordance with article 64.3 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

The Data Protection Officer of the EDREAMS group of companies, to whom
belongs to ODIGEO, owner of the website www.opodo.com
 , of which the part
claimant proves to be a customer through his email address ***EMAIL.1, performs the
following manifestations in relation to the processing of the right of cancellation
of data:

 

1. In relation to the detail of the procedure established to exercise the right of
data cancellation:

The rights of cancellation of personal data, as well as those of any other
personal data right, are centralized from the Privacy Form with the
in order to facilitate users the exercise of rights, through this tool of
easy access, linked and explained in a transparent way in the Privacy Policy.

This form allows, in turn, to automate part of the process, in which a
Freshdesk ticket. This ticket is exclusively managed by a team of
agents specialized in the management of said rights, from the internal department of
VIP Comms.

The first action will be to review the request, confirming that all the information is available.
information and guarantees that the identity of the person is sufficiently
accredited.

Subsequently, it connects with "Jira" to communicate with the departments
appropriate, according to the right exercised.

Once the appropriate actions have been carried out by each team in their systems,
We proceed to respond to the interested party following the internal guide. In this case,
the right of cancellation guide applies.

Likewise, clients can exercise their rights by any means they consider
timely. In the case of the complaining party, the request was sent to a generic email from
customer service that is managed by customer service agents.

Customer service agents have an internal policy that
must follow in case the exercise of any data right is requested

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/30

personal information outside the Privacy Form channel, in order to redirect
said customer request.

2. In relation to the reason why the right to cancel the
the complaining party

The case of the complaining party has been investigated and they state that it has not been
resolved by a manual error of the agent, who has not given a correct treatment of the
same.

Being aware of the problem, EDREAMS has assigned this case to a
specialist to treat this exercise of law immediately
carrying out all the internal actions in their systems, the appropriate checks
and facilitating customer response.

When analyzing the case, they have found the following circumstances:

In recent months, since the beginning of the crisis caused by COVID19, the
tourism industry has been dramatically affected. The entity, insofar as it is
travel agency, has seen how airlines canceled their flights in
mass and have had a 300% increase in customer service requests.

Added to this circumstance is the fact that for nine months of 2020 they have been
in a partial ERTE in which the working day was reduced by 60%, working
only 40% of the normal working day. Said ERTE was a direct consequence of the
economic impact of the COVID19 that has come to reduce more than 90% the
income compared to the previous year.

Taking into account these exceptional circumstances - never seen before - they have tried
continue to respond in the best possible way to customer requests.

The complaining party's case was not handled properly. But the risk that
this happens again due to the circumstances described is very remote.

3. In relation to the documentary justification of the effective attention of the request for
deletion of data and confirmation sent to the complaining party

They provide the following documentation:

- Copy of the response sent to the complaining party

- Detail of the internal process through which the communications have been produced
with the teams responsible for the possible processing of customer data and the
requirements of timely action according to the right exercised

- Screen print of the system in which the blocked data of the
claiming party until the end of the legal deadlines related to claims of
consumption and for the purposes of documentary evidence of the transaction that has an impact on the
company accounting and taxation

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/30

4. In relation to whether, in view of this incident, they consider it necessary to adapt or modify
car your procedure for the attention of the right of cancellation of data:

Despite understanding that this incident occurs in exceptional circumstances
mentioned above, have taken advantage of it to carry out the following actions
and/or review them:

1.
A reminder has been sent in the weekly newsletter to all
customer service agents of the importance of managing well any
exercise of rights, reminding them of the internal procedure and the need to
centralize it via the Privacy Form.

Advance data protection training that is done re-

1.
gular to be carried out in the next 3 months.

As there has not been a bad management by the same agent
2.
of a right of the interested party, and given the exceptional circumstances,
They have not proceeded to apply any specific disciplinary action, other than warning
of the incident and how to prevent it from recurring.

3.
They are working to use simple customer service forms.
tea. As soon as they are ready, it will be remembered that the Privacy Form is the
that must be used for the exercise of any right of the interested parties to
personal data protection purposes (since it is managed by a team
specialized and dedicated to that purpose). Until they have said
forms, will be included in the automatic message of correct reception of
any customer service request, a reminder of the Priority Form,
vacancy, as it appears in the Privacy Policy, to give greater visibility to the
interested.

FIFTH: On January 24, 2022, the Director of the AEPD adopted a project
decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings. Following the established process
in article 60 of the GDPR, that same day this
draft decision and the authorities concerned were informed that they had
four weeks from that time to raise pertinent objections and
motivated. Within the term for this purpose, the control authorities concerned shall not
presented pertinent and reasoned objections in this regard, for which reason it is considered
that all authorities agree with said draft decision and are
linked by it, in accordance with the provisions of section 6 of article 60
of the GDPR.

This draft decision, which was notified to EDREAMS in accordance with the rules
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (LPACAP), was collected on the 7th of
February 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

SIXTH: On July 15, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against EDREAMS in order to
issue a warning, in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the
LPACAP, for the alleged violation of Article 12 of the GDPR, typified in Article

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/30

83.5 of the GDPR, in which he was indicated that he had a period of ten days to
submit claims.

This start-up agreement, which was notified to EDREAMS in accordance with the rules
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (LPACAP), was collected on July 18
of 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

SEVENTH: On July 30, 2022, it is received at this Agency, on time and
form, letter from EDREAMS in which it alleges allegations to the start-up agreement in the
which, in summary, stated that:

1.- EXERCISE OF RIGHTS IN EDREAMS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS

EDREAMS alleges that it centralizes the management of the exercise of rights (including the
right of deletion) through its Privacy Form. And that, in this way,
Users are provided with the exercise of said exercises, through this tool of
easy access, linked in its Privacy Notice and managed through a process
defined and by a team trained and dedicated to this purpose.

Indicates that the Privacy Form allows in turn to automate part of the process,
in order to provide a better and faster response.

Explain that, initially, the interested party exercises his right through the
Privacy. Said request is exclusively conditioned to the fact that the agents
specialized in the management of these rights can confirm the information and
have sufficient guarantees that the person claims to be who he is and/or that the
representation of a third party is sufficiently accredited (usually the
confirmation happens because the client, who receives a verification email,
confirm in your personal email registered in your systems that you have
requested the corresponding right).

After said confirmation, it connects with the appropriate departments, to execute
the corresponding actions based on the right exercised. Finally, once the
necessary actions have been carried out, we proceed to respond to the interested party
according to an internal guide (in this case, the right of deletion guide).

You state that this process is carried out in accordance with your Privacy Notice and your
Internal privacy policy (provided as Annex 1 - Index and applicable section of the
Internal privacy policy), as well as internal procedures; specifically the
Internal guide on the exercise of the right of deletion (provides Annex 2 - Internal guide
on the exercise of the right of deletion) and with the data protection regulations:

Article 12 GDPR 1: "The person responsible for the treatment will take the measures
to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in the articles
13 and 14, as well as any communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and
34 regarding the treatment, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily
access, in clear and simple language, in particular any information
directed specifically at a child. The information will be provided in writing or
by other means, including, if applicable, by electronic means.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/30

Article 11.1 LOPDGDD 2: "When personal data is obtained from the
affected, the data controller may comply with the duty of
information established in article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
providing the affected party with the basic information referred to in section
following and indicating an electronic address or other means that allow
easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.”

Article 12.2 LOPDGDD: “2. The controller will be obliged to
inform the affected party about the means at their disposal to exercise the
rights that correspond to you. The means must be easily accessible
for the affected The exercise of the right may not be denied by the sole
reason for the affected person to opt for another means.” In this sense we want to insist
that we do not deny the exercise of the right (which also would have been managed
to be exercised by the Privacy Form by the team and process
dedicated to that end) but rather the exceptional situation and human error
in an agent gave rise to not reiterating once again to the CLIENT, according to
with our Privacy Notice, the availability of the Privacy Form
for the exercise of their rights. We will develop this point in the second
allegation. Likewise, we will establish why and how we have mitigated the risk
for this to happen again.

European Commission - How should we process applications from people
who exercise their rights in terms of data protection?: "When the
personal data is processed by electronic means, you must offer
means for applications to be submitted electronically.”

AEPD - Exercise your rights: "The person in charge is obliged to inform you about
the means to exercise these rights. These means must be accessible and
This right cannot be denied for the sole reason that you opt for another
half".

Furthermore, EDREAMS alleges that it is aware that customers
You can contact them in different ways for different purposes. AND,
For this reason, they train their Customer Service agents and carry out actions of
awareness regarding the exercise of rights. In the same way, they provide a guide
response, in order that they know how to detect the exercise of rights and know
reiterate the information already collected in your Privacy Notice, regarding the Form
Privacy as a means to exercise rights.

2.- EDREAMS MAKES EXTRA EFFORTS IN GENERIC CHANNELS OF
CUSTOMER SERVICE IN ORDER TO GIVE THE BEST SERVICE TO ITS
CUSTOMERS

In the first place, they allege that after the internal investigations they verified that the
complaining party did not exercise their right in accordance with the Privacy Notice,
through the Privacy Form (mentioned in the first allegation and through
which they say that a specialized agent is guaranteed to manage the
corresponding request).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/30

Secondly, they allege that they have analyzed the email inboxes
generic Customer Service and have verified that they received a request from the
complaining party.

They have contacted the Customer Service team who have informed them
that the agent mistakenly closed the ticket without having handled it properly
based on its internal processes that supposedly guarantee the corresponding
management of said request, referring to its Privacy Form (as
have indicated in the internal process of management of data protection rights) or
to escalate the practice of law internally to the specialized department that is
take care of it.

This manual agent error occurred because the agent did not open internal ticket
response upon receiving the communication from the complaining party and therefore does not indicate to
the complaining party exercising the right in the Privacy Form, as
should have done at the time.

In addition, this occurred in a context of an exceptional situation in which
found EDREAMS given the unprecedented saturation of requests in its
Customer Service email inboxes that received the situation
caused by COVID-19.

Despite these devastating circumstances both economically and
organizationally, EDREAMS states that they have tried to continue answering
the best possible way to all the requests of your clients, getting support
from other teams for this management and have tried to get out of these months as
best possible.

Indicates that these Customer Service channels try to answer as soon as possible
but there is no determined fixed term of response, since it depends on the filtering
of issues and their prioritization, which is done manually by the team
Customer Service and that carries risks of incorrect manual categorization to
difference from what happens when they are exercised by the means provided for the
exercise of rights (the Privacy Form).

And he states that it is precisely for this reason that a specific medium was created
(through the Privacy Form), supposedly complying with the regulations
of data protection and in order to be able to offer a mature process and the
guaranteeing and transparent as possible for customers to exercise their rights of
Data Protection.

In addition, this process has been automated with a privacy tool
(***TOOL.1), to reduce risks and improve their responses, and
It is managed with alerts to avoid deadlines and respond to customers as soon as possible.
as soon as possible and within a maximum period of thirty days.

EDREAMS points out that proof of the same is the management of the priority response and
immediate exercise of the right of the complaining party as quickly as possible from
who were aware of it: it was assigned to a senior specialist to give
treatment to this exercise of right immediately, performing all actions

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/30

internal in their systems, the appropriate checks and the complaining party
agreeably answered.

EDREAMS indicates that much to its regret, the claimant's case was not directed
correctly to the appropriate information and to the Privacy Form. and that the
exceptional circumstances and manual error by the agent, as well as the measures
implemented, make the risk of reproducing this case remote.

3.- CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPARENCY REGARDING THE EXERCISE OF
RIGHTS

EDREAMS alleges that they took advantage of this case (produced by not exercising the right
correctly and through the appropriate means as well as by manual error
of the agent who did not follow internal policies and guidelines, in a context in addition to
exceptionality) as an opportunity to analyze all the causes and
circumstances of this case, referred to above in the second allegation, and that
has allowed them to take extra measures to prevent situations from occurring
Similar.

EDREAMS emphasizes that it considers its compliance program
regulations in the field of privacy and data protection is based on the
continuous monitoring and continuous improvement and learning in order to increase the levels
of regulatory compliance.

It points out that, in this context of exercising rights, they also maintain the same
philosophy and take the rights of data subjects very seriously, not only as a
critical compliance action, but because it is the best way to
guarantee the trust of its customers.

They indicate that this is why they have a dedicated and trained team
specifically, as well as an internal process for exercising protection rights
of data, to guarantee the best possible response to its clients, through the
Privacy Form, and internal coordination systems to deal with said
requests in accordance with the regulations.

Likewise, as an extra effort to guarantee and safeguard the exercise of
rights, the Customer Service agents are trained and indicated so that in case of
receive any matter of protection of personal data, they must direct the client to the
Privacy Form so that he can exercise his rights.

It states that, despite understanding that this case occurs in the circumstances
previously mentioned exceptions, and having received several manual errors from
Customer Service agents in generic channels of said service, have
used to implement a Customer Service Form, which customers
access, either via the Customer Service Help Center, or by sending an email
email to the still generic Customer Service email inboxes
customer still available.

Said form has assessed categories, among which is the option of
exercise of rights that redirects to your Privacy Form (as the only means

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/30

that must be used for the exercise of any right of the interested parties for the purposes of
personal data protection; since it is managed by a specialized team and
dedicated to this purpose) (Annex 3 - Customer Service Form and Annex
4 - Help center and frequently asked questions).

In this way, they understand that they guarantee a specialized and guarantee procedure,
while also redirecting their customers to contact them
by other means (such as the general means of contact for Customer Service)
In order to have a system that allows anyone who wants to exercise their rights,
can do it smoothly and mitigating the risks of manual agent errors
of Customer Service.

Likewise, they train annually on a mandatory basis on data protection
and specialized in the exercise of rights, including practical cases such as the
present case, as well as awareness-raising actions by the Attention team
to the client (Annex 5 is provided - Awareness articles on the exercise of
rights), for example, covering topics such as “what is an exercise of rights
of data protection" and "how to accompany clients to exercise them via the
Privacy Form”.

On the other hand, in recent months they have carried out a migration of the
Privacy and rights management form, going from a generic to a
specialized in privacy (such as ***TOOL.1) in which apart from being
managed by a specialized and highly qualified team aware of
data protection, work on process automation to
to be more agile and reduce risks of human errors.

They state that they are sorry for what happened in this exceptional case. At the same time
understand that given the circumstances and measures described above, EDREAMS
complies with data protection regulations as well as with the guidelines of the
AEPD itself (previously referred to in the first allegation) and that the closure of the
disciplinary procedure against EDREAMS with a warning, entails a
disproportionate interpretation of maximum data protection regulations,
in a context of a global pandemic with effects never experienced, especially
by the tourism industry in which said company carries out its activity, as well as by the
efforts made by it, especially when they have mitigated the risk that
cases similar to this occur again, with a Customer Service Form
that guides customers in the event that, without having read or ignoring the Notice of
Privacy, want to exercise their rights, and can be guided accordingly and their
rights managed, through the Privacy Form.

They reiterate the commitment of the EDREAMS team to work tirelessly
regarding learning and continuous improvement of its processes, with the aim of not
only to comply with the regulations, but also to strengthen the trust of their clients in us. AND
In this context, they indicate that they will continue to monitor and continuously improve the
policies, processes, actions and measures referred to herein.

For all these reasons, it requests that the sanctioning procedure be closed without
warning based on the fact that it is an exceptional manual error, caused by
the management of a right of deletion referred to by a generic Customer Service channel

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/30

client, not contemplated in its Privacy Notice as a means for the exercise of
rights, with the Customer Service completely saturated (as never before
in the entire history of the company and in the entire tourism industry, due to the
massive cancellations by the airlines of the reserved flights that
reached more than 90%, together with the travel restrictions imposed by the
governments due to the pandemic for the exercise of data protection rights),
that EDREAMS has acted and acts diligently in the respect, defense and exercise
of the rights of the interested parties and always in collaboration with the AEPD, and
which, furthermore, has been mitigated with a Customer Service Form
in the terms described in his third allegation.

EIGHTH: On October 17, 2022, the investigating body of the procedure
sanctioner formulated a proposal for a resolution, in which he proposes that the Director
AEPD sends a warning to VACACIONES EDREAMS, S.L., with NIF
B61965778, for a violation of Article 12 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5
of the GDPR.

This proposed resolution, which was notified to EDREAMS in accordance with the rules
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (LPACAP), was collected on the 18th of
October 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

NINTH: On October 19, 2022, EDREAMS files a brief through
of which he requests the extension of the term to adduce allegations.

TENTH: On October 21, 2022, the investigating body of the procedure
agrees to the extension of the term requested up to a maximum of three days, in accordance with
the provisions of article 32.1 of the LPACAP.

The aforementioned agreement is notified to EDREAMS on October 24, 2022, as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

ELEVENTH: On November 4, 2022, this Agency received,
in due time and form, a letter from EDREAMS in which it alleges allegations to the proposal
resolution in which, in summary, stated that:

PREVIOUS.- REITERATION OF THE ALLEGATIONS PREVIOUSLY PRESENTED

In the first place, EDREAMS emphasizes the rigorous respect for the rule of law and the
rights of people in the diligence shown by EDREAMS in all its
actions, as well as its efforts and proactivity in ensuring and protecting
the rights of the interested parties.

Having said the foregoing, EDREAMS reiterates its previous allegations and understands that
complies with the regulations in the terms described below, without prejudice to
emphasize in this writing those that he considers most relevant and add those that
considered pertinent, in order to refute the grounds on which the
intends to warn EDREAMS by the AEPD.

1.- ACCUSATIONS AGAINST EDREAMS SATISFACTORIOUSLY RESOLVED

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/30

Preliminarily, EDREAMS emphasizes that the claim filed with the Authority
Austrian data protection law concerned the alleged violation of the GDPR
regarding the precepts related to the transparency of the modalities of exercise
of the rights of the interested party. Specifically, and as is clear from the
Proposed Resolution of Sanctioning Procedure, the complaining party denounced
before the Austrian Data Protection Authority the different communications that
made to generic Customer Service email addresses (including
a no-reply address, “no-reply@contact.opodo.com”) for the suppression of
your personal information.

EDREAMS alleges that it has been proven that it acted diligently in relation to
internal policies and protocols, both in the specialized internal department of
rights management such as training for Customer Service agents as
as described in the pleadings in response to the settlement agreement
disciplinary procedure of this file.

On the other hand, regarding the request to exercise rights made by the party
claimant, it is necessary to point out that an immediate response has been given to the rights
exercised once the claim has been brought to the attention of EDREAMS.

Likewise, and in this line of argument, it indicates that the AEPD has assessed
positively the measures implemented by EDREAMS, to mitigate the risk of
that a case like the one in the present claim could occur again.

For all these reasons, and in conjunction with the following allegation, EDREAMS requests in the
present the file of the disciplinary procedure in writing.

2.- EXERCISE OF RIGHTS IN EDREAMS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS

With regard to the adoption of measures tending to guarantee the correct
management of the exercise of rights, on the one hand, EDREAMS alleges that it has a
official channel, the Privacy Form (Annex 1 - Privacy Form), which is,
in their opinion, transparently informed and made available to those interested in
its Privacy Notice, resulting in easy access for the interested party (Annex 2 - Notice
of Privacy: exercise of rights).

On the other, EDREAMS alleges that it has processes, tools, training materials
and other opportune measures already supposedly accredited in which it is contemplated
that the hypothetical exercise of rights cannot be denied for the simple fact of
that is exercised through other channels that are not the official channel.

In this last direction, EDREAMS indicates that it works tirelessly to improve
continuation of the previously mentioned measures, and that, in his opinion, were accredited
accordingly in the third allegation of its response to the agreement to start
sanctioning procedure dated July 30, 2022 (with registration number
O00007128e22P0006393), so that in all its Customer Service channels
redirect customers to the official and dedicated channel for their management (the
referred to Privacy Form), in the event that they were used for the exercise of
rights.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/30

EDREAMS agrees that an organization must have an official channel that collects a
guarantee procedure in the terms stipulated by the regulations for the protection of
data, as well as appropriate measures to guide the actions of any
employee thereof to inform any interested party on how to exercise their
data protection rights. However, he understands that an interpretation in the
that the same degree of diligence is required that the official channel must have (as long as
when it is transparently informed in the Privacy Notice) to any other
channel of the organization, would lead to an overload and dedication of resources
disproportionate of the organization, without prejudice to the fact that, in addition, it interprets that
would be contrary to the fact that the regulations require an official channel for the
exercise of rights.

The aforementioned interpretation is based, in his opinion, on the fact that the
rule in question (article 12.2 LOPDGDD 2) clearly establishes that the
responsible for the treatment can determine an official channel, as long as it is
easily accessible (as it turns out in the case of EDREAMS).

EDREAMS understands that it seems clear that the standard has wanted to go further and therefore
organizations require greater cooperation to enhance the effectiveness of the
rights and, therefore, it has been stated that organizations cannot hide behind
the fact that the corresponding right had been exercised through another channel of the
official, to directly deny it without further ado, without having internal controls in this regard
(in the aforementioned article 12.2 LOPDGDD).

But, does that mean that an organization must have in any channel a
notification filtering and management system that is not only extremely urgent -due to
said nature of the period of exercise of rights included in the regulations of
data protection - but also be infallible? And, if you don't have it, do you
would proceed with the opening of disciplinary proceedings against the organization despite
have appropriate measures for said channels not specially dedicated to the
exercise of rights, as has happened in the instant case and has been
recognized by the AEPD?

EDREAMS considers disproportionate an interpretation that entails a
positive response to the above questions, so please reconsider
that interpretive position.

The AEPD is requested to take into account that EDREAMS has (and had in the
moment in which the events took place) of an official channel, which is, in its
opinion, transparently informed in the Privacy Notice, and it is easily
accessible in accordance with the regulations, and with technical and organizational measures
implemented, as well as measures to reduce the risk of possible human error
in the manual management of an agent in charge of an unofficial channel. EDREAMS
understands that a conclusion cannot be drawn that, in practice, would result in
that any communication channel of the company could automatically be a
official channel for the exercise of rights.

It alleges that if the law had intended such a conclusion, requiring the same level of
diligence for any channel of the organization, the wording should have included

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/30

the following position: "The person responsible for the treatment will be obliged to
inform the affected party about the fact that in any means of contact of the
organization may exercise the rights that correspond to it, as well as facilitate the list
thereof".

It understands that EDREAMS's position is aligned with recital 59
GDPR, since EDREAMS has created formulas and electronic means that
allow you to request the exercise of the rights of the interested parties free of charge.
Said formulas and means, it alleges, have been informed to all interested parties in a
transparent and loyal in its different forms and web privacy notices, and in the
recruitment process.

Additionally, it insists that customer service channels, such as the employee
by the complaining party, are intended for consumer purposes, and therefore do not
You can have a privacy channel expectation due to its nature, and require
the same level of extreme diligence that supports a channel dedicated to the exercise of
rights.

Even so, in order to try to guarantee that the interested party has the
Privacy at your disposal despite possible exceptional human error by an agent
Customer Service, EDREAMS has implemented a note at the bottom of the emails
generic customer service emails, through which customers are informed
clients, once again, of the existence of the Privacy Form for a management
easy exercise of rights and allows correct verification of identity
of the interested parties (Annex 3 - Note at the foot of the emails from Customer Service
customer).

For all these reasons, EDREAMS considers that the precept in question requires a duty of
reasonable diligence, but not maximalist. And, in this logic, without prejudice to the position
previously recognized regarding the interpretation of the precept in question,
EDREAMS insists that what happened in this case is exceptional, and
reiterates the commitment to continue working tirelessly to improve
of its processes, tools, and training in all its channels of
Customer service so that, in the event that they are used for the exercise of
rights, customers are directed to the special and dedicated channel for the management of
themselves (the aforementioned Privacy Form).

Additionally, it is the intention of EDREAMS to record and demonstrate that the
measures in force at the time of the alleged infringement complied with the most
rigorous norms, guidelines, standards and recommendations to be able to deal with
the risks and that they were adequate and suitable taking into account the state of the
technique, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment, as well as risks of variable probability and severity for the rights
and freedoms of natural persons. Likewise, EDREAMS transfers to the AEPD, within
of the scrupulous respect of this entity to the data protection regulations and its
willingness to collaborate with the AEPD, the acceptance of any type of proposal for
improvement or recommendation by this AEPD in relation to compliance with the
normative.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/30

For all these reasons, it requests that an archive decision be issued in this procedure.
disciplinary action and that the AEPD take into account in its resolution: (i) the nature
exceptional case, because the complaining party has not exercised their rights
through the channel designated and described in the Privacy Notice (Privacy Form),
but through generic Customer Service channels at a time of
unprecedented saturation of requests in the email inboxes of
Customer service they received for the devastating situation caused by the
COVID-19; (ii) that, in relation to channels intended for consumer issues, the
response expectation of exercise of rights cannot be the same as that of the
channels for the exercise of rights offered by EDREAMS; (iii) that has been
given a satisfactory response to the exercise of the rights presented by the party
claimant; and (iv) that EDREAMS has acted and acts diligently in respect,
defense and exercise of the rights of the interested parties and always in a collaborative way
with the AEPD, and that all this is not diminished by this exceptional case.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: - On October 28, 2020 at 12:00 hrs an email was sent
from the email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which you request the deletion of your personal data and
carry out the steps so that the partners to whom their data has been transferred,
delete them too.

SECOND: On October 28, 2020 at 12:02 p.m. an email was sent
automatic from the email address no-reply@contact.opodo.com, in
which you are thanked for contacting Opodo, you are told that your
request as soon as possible, you are informed that you can manage your reservation
email and you are advised to visit their Help Center for more information.

THIRD: On November 9, 2020 at 10:43 a.m. an email was sent
from the email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that he has not yet received a response to his request.

FOURTH: On November 12, 2020 at 3:59 p.m., an email was sent to
the complaining party from the email address customerservice-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which you are given instructions to obtain a refund
of your flight.

FIFTH: On November 13, 2020 at 4:23 p.m. an email was sent
from the email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that it is the third time he has requested the deletion
of your personal data.

SIXTH: On November 13, 2020 at 4:25 p.m. an email was sent
to the complaining party from the email address not-
reply@contact.opodo.com, thanking you for contacting Opodo, you will be

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/30

says that your application will be processed as soon as possible, you are informed that you can
manage your reservation electronically and you are recommended to visit your Contact Center
Help for more information.

SEVENTH: On November 24, 2020 at 7:04 p.m. an email was sent
from the email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that it is the fourth time that he has requested the deletion
of your personal data.

EIGHTH: On November 25, 2020 at 08:57, an email was sent to
 No-
the complaining party from
reply@contact.opodo.com, in which it is indicated that to complete its process of
registration as a premium member must contact by phone.

the email address

NINTH: On November 27, 2020 at 08:47, an email was sent
from the email address of the complaining party to customer service-
de@contact.opodo.com, in which he indicates that it is the fifth time he has requested the deletion
of your personal data.

TENTH: On November 27, 2020 at 08:49 a.m. an email was sent
to the complaining party from the email address not-
reply@contact.opodo.com, thanking you for contacting Opodo, you will be
says that your application will be processed as soon as possible, you are informed that you can
manage your reservation electronically and you are recommended to visit your Contact Center
Help for more information.

ELEVENTH: The EDREAMS agent who processed the party's request
claimant closed the ticket without having handled it properly.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Competition and applicable regulations

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

17/30

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 and 4.2 of the GDPR,
the processing of personal data is recorded, since EDREAMS
carries out the collection and conservation of, among others, the following personal data of
natural persons: name and surname and email, among other treatments.

EDREAMS carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, given
who is the one who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the
GDPR.

The GDPR provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of cross-border processing,
provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the authority of
main control, that, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the authority of
control of the main establishment or of the only establishment of the person in charge or of the
The person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as control authority
for the cross-border processing carried out by said controller or
commissioned in accordance with the procedure established in article 60. In the case
examined, as has been exposed, EDREAMS has its only establishment in
Spain, so the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to
act as the main supervisory authority.

For its part, the right to delete personal data is regulated in article
17 of the RGPD and the modalities of exercise of the rights of the interested parties are
detailed in article 12 of the GDPR.

II

Allegations adduced

In relation to the allegations adduced to the agreement to initiate this
disciplinary procedure, we proceed to respond to them according to the order
exposed by EDREAMS:

1. EXERCISE OF RIGHTS IN EDREAMS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS

EDREAMS alleges that it centralizes the management of the exercise of rights through a
Privacy Form and that the requests received through
of this form in compliance with data protection regulations.

It also states that it is aware that customers may contact
with the company through other channels and, therefore, train their agents
Customer service and carry out awareness actions regarding the exercise of
rights. And they provide a response guide to these agents so that they know how to detect
the exercise of rights and know how to reiterate the information regarding the Form of
Privacy as a means to exercise rights.

In this regard, this Agency values the efforts made by EDREAMS to train
its agents in the exercise of rights that could be requested through other means
other than the Privacy Form. But it is not the subject of this proceeding if
the procedure provided for dealing with the exercise of rights requested through

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/30

of the Privacy Form complies or not with the requirements of the regulations of
Data Protection.

For all the foregoing, this claim is dismissed.

2. EDREAMS MAKES EXTRA EFFORTS IN GENERIC SUPPORT CHANNELS
TION TO THE CUSTOMER IN ORDER TO GIVE THE BEST SERVICE TO ITS CUSTOMERS

EDREAMS first alleges that the complaining party did not exercise its right to
in accordance with its Privacy Notice, through its Privacy Form.

Second, it alleges that the claimant's request was made through
the generic Customer Service email inboxes. And that the team
Customer Service has reported that the ticket was manually closed by the agent without ha-
have it properly managed based on EDREAMS internal processes (ha-
referring to the Privacy Form or escalating the exercise of inter-
directly to the specialized department that is in charge of it).

And that this occurred in a context of an exceptional situation in which he found himself
ba EDREAMS given the unprecedented saturation of requests in its mailboxes
email from Customer Service that they received for the situation caused by
COVID-19.

It is also alleged that the Customer Service channels try to answer the above
possible, but there is no specific fixed response time and that the filtering and
Topic prioritization is done manually by the Customer Service team.
customer and carries risks of incorrect manual categorization.

Likewise, EDREAMS alleges that once it was aware of the exercise of rights
of the complaining party was assigned to a senior specialist to treat
this exercise of right immediately carrying out all internal actions in
its systems, the appropriate checks and the complaining party was compliant
answered.

Finally, it affirms that the exceptional circumstances and the manual error of the agent,
as well as the measures implemented, make the risk of reproducing this case
be remote.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that the fact that the party had not addressed
claimant to the channels provided by EDREAMS to request the exercise of their duties.
rights, does not imply that the company was not obliged to meet such request. Maxi-
me when the request was made through the Customer Service email,
a channel which can reasonably be expected to be in a position to give
due process to the request in question.

This Agency values the efforts made to train Customer Service personnel
client, but this does not mean that, in the present case, the company mistakenly closed the
cket of the request in question without having handled it properly, as stated by
ma EDREAMS in its allegations.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/30

For all the foregoing, this claim is dismissed.

3. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSPARENCY REGARDING THE EXERCISE OF DE-
RIGHTS

EDREAMS alleges that it has a dedicated and specifically trained team, as well as
as an internal process of exercising data protection rights, to guarantee
provide the best possible response to your customers, through the Privacy Form.

Likewise, Customer Service agents are trained and instructed so that in the event of
receive any matter of protection of personal data, direct the client to the Formu-
Privacy Policy to exercise your rights.

Having received several manual errors from Customer Service agents in channels
generic data of said service, EDREAMS has taken the opportunity to implement a For-
Customer Service form, which customers will access either via the Help Center
Customer Service, either by sending an email to the mailboxes
Generic Customer Care email still available. This formula-
The river has appraised categories, among which is the option to exercise rights.
chos, which redirects to the Privacy Form.

Likewise, EDREAMS trains annually on a mandatory basis in data protection and
in exercise of rights, including practical cases such as this, as well as
awareness actions on the exercise of rights by the team of
Customer Support.

On the other hand, EDREAMS has carried out in recent months a migration of the tool
of the Privacy and Rights Management Form, moving from a generic
to a company specializing in privacy in which, apart from being managed by a team
specialized and highly qualified and aware of data protection
cough, work is being done to automate processes in order to be more agile and reduce
risks of human errors.

EDREAMS understands that given the circumstances and measures described above, it complies
ple with the data protection regulations as well as with the guidelines of the company itself
AEPD and that the closure of the disciplinary procedure against EDREAMS with a warning
development, entails a disproportionate interpretation in a pandemic context
worldwide with effects never experienced, especially by the tourist industry in the
that the company carries out its activity, as well as for the efforts made by the
itself, especially when they have mitigated that the risk of cases recurring
similar to this one, with a Customer Service Form that guides customers through the
in the event that, without having read or ignoring the Privacy Notice, they want to exercise their
rights, and can be guided accordingly and their rights managed, through
you the Privacy Form.

In this regard, this Agency positively values the measures implemented to mitigate
risk that a case such as the one in this claim could recur.
deduce But, in the present case, it is no less true that the complaining party had
requested the exercise of a right that has not been duly addressed by
EDREAMS. The fact that it has adopted measures tending to make a situation

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/30

as the one in this procedure does not occur again is, precisely, one of
the circumstances that are taken into account to replace the possibility of imposing a
fine for the option of directing a warning.

For all the foregoing, this claim is dismissed.

In relation to the allegations made in the proposed resolution of this
disciplinary procedure, we proceed to respond to them according to the order
exposed by EDREAMS:

PREVIOUS.- REITERATION OF THE ALLEGATIONS PREVIOUSLY PRESENTED

In this regard, this Agency reiterates in its response to the allegations presented to the
agreement to initiate this disciplinary procedure.

1.- ACCUSATIONS AGAINST EDREAMS SATISFACTORIOUSLY RESOLVED

Preliminarily, EDREAMS emphasizes that the claim filed with the Authority
Austrian data protection law concerned the alleged violation of the GDPR
regarding the precepts related to the transparency of the modalities of exercise
of the rights of the interested party. Specifically, and as can be seen from the
Proposed Resolution of Sanctioning Procedure, the complaining party denounced
before the Austrian Data Protection Authority the different communications that
made to generic Customer Service email addresses (including
a no-reply address, “no-reply@contact.opodo.com”) for the suppression of
your personal information.

EDREAMS alleges that it has been proven that it acted diligently in relation to
internal policies and protocols, both in the specialized internal department of
rights management such as training for Customer Service agents as
as described in the pleadings in response to the settlement agreement
disciplinary procedure of this file.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that it has not been demonstrated in the
present file that had acted diligently in relation to the policies and
internal protocols, both in the specialized internal department of management of
rights such as training for Customer Service agents, since they do not
This issue is the subject of this proceeding.

On the other hand, regarding the request to exercise rights made by the party
complainant, EDREAMS points out that an immediate response has been given to the rights
exercised once the claim has been brought to your attention.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to highlight that it is the person responsible who recognizes
that the claimant party's exercise of rights was not dealt with in time, but rather a
once received the claim from the AEPD.

Likewise, and in this line of argument, EDREAMS points out that the AEPD has assessed
positively the measures implemented to mitigate the risk that a case such as
that of the present claim could occur again.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/30

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out once again that the fact that
adopted measures tending to mitigate the risk that a situation such as that of the pre-
this procedure occurs again is, precisely, one of the circumstances
taken into account to replace the possibility of imposing a fine with the option
tion of directing a warning.

For all the foregoing, everything indicated in this claim is rejected.

2.- EXERCISE OF RIGHTS IN EDREAMS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS

With regard to the adoption of measures tending to guarantee the correct
management of the exercise of rights, on the one hand, EDREAMS alleges that it has a
official channel, the Privacy Form (Annex 1 - Privacy Form), which is,
in their opinion, transparently informed and made available to those interested in
its Privacy Notice, resulting in easy access for the interested party (Annex 2 - Notice
of Privacy: exercise of rights).

On the other, EDREAMS alleges that it has processes, tools, training materials
and other opportune measures already supposedly accredited in which it is contemplated
that the hypothetical exercise of rights cannot be denied for the simple fact of
that is exercised through other channels that are not the official channel.

In this last direction, EDREAMS indicates that it works tirelessly to improve
continuation of the previously mentioned measures, and that, in his opinion, were accredited
accordingly in the third allegation of its response to the agreement to start
sanctioning procedure dated July 30, 2022 (with registration number
O00007128e22P0006393), so that in all its Customer Service channels
redirect customers to the official and dedicated channel for their management (the
referred to Privacy Form), in the event that they were used for the exercise of
rights.

In this regard, this Agency reiterates that it is not the object of this procedure if
the procedure provided for dealing with the exercise of rights requested through
of the Privacy Form complies or not with the requirements of the regulations of
Data Protection.

EDREAMS alleges that it agrees that an organization must have an official channel that
includes a guarantee procedure in the terms stipulated by the regulations of
data protection, as well as appropriate measures to guide the actions of
any employee thereof to inform any interested party on how to exercise
your data protection rights. However, you understand that an interpretation in
which requires the same degree of diligence that the official channel must have (as long as
when it is transparently informed in the Privacy Notice) to any other
channel of the organization, would lead to an overload and dedication of resources
disproportionate of the organization, without prejudice to the fact that, in addition, it interprets that
would be contrary to the fact that the regulations require an official channel for the
exercise of rights.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/30

And he wonders if an organization should have in any channel a system of
filtering and management of extremely urgent and infallible notifications, or otherwise the AEPD
would proceed to the opening of a disciplinary file, which he considers
disproportionate.

It alleges that EDREAMS has (and had at the time the
facts) from an official channel, which is, in their opinion, transparently informed
in the Privacy Notice, and is easily accessible in accordance with the regulations, and
with technical and organizational measures implemented, as well as measures to reduce
the risk of a possible human error in the manual management of an agent in charge of
an unofficial channel. EDREAMS understands that a conclusion cannot be drawn
that, in practice, results in any communication channel of the company
could automatically be an official channel for the exercise of rights.

It understands that EDREAMS's position is aligned with recital 59
GDPR, since EDREAMS has created formulas and electronic means that
allow you to request the exercise of the rights of the interested parties free of charge.
Said formulas and means, it alleges, have been informed to all interested parties in a
transparent and loyal in its different forms and web privacy notices, and in the
recruitment process.

Additionally, it insists that customer service channels, such as the employee
by the complaining party, are intended for consumer purposes, and therefore do not
You can have a privacy channel expectation due to its nature, and require
the same level of extreme diligence that supports a channel dedicated to the exercise of
rights.

Even so, it indicates that EDREAMS has implemented a note at the bottom of the emails
generic Customer Service emails, through which customers are informed
of the existence of the Privacy Form for a simple management of the exercise of
rights and that allows the correct verification of the identity of the interested parties.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that the aforementioned recital (59) of the GDPR
establishes that: "Formulas must be arbitrated to facilitate the interested party the exercise of his
rights under this Regulation, including mechanisms for requesting
and, where appropriate, obtain free of charge, in particular, access to the data
personal information and its rectification or deletion, as well as the exercise of the right to
opposition. The data controller must also provide means for
applications are submitted by electronic means, in particular when the data
Personal information is processed by electronic means. The data controller must
be obliged to respond to the requests of the interested party without undue delay and to
no later than within a month, and to explain his reasons in case he was not going to
serve them”.

These mechanisms are not mandatory and it cannot be understood that they will only be
those requests for the exercise of rights that are made only to
through the channels established by the data controllers in their policies
Of privacy. On the contrary, each data controller has the power
to organize itself as it deems best, provided that a response is provided
satisfactory to the exercise of the rights requested by the interested parties, within the term

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/30

legally provided. But the organization that this person in charge of
treatment cannot be an obstacle to the satisfaction of a right that recognizes
the interested parties the GDPR.

In the present case, EDREAMS has decided to centralize all requests for
exercise of rights in an electronic form. Now, the fact that a
particular request is directed through another channel, does not imply that EDREAMS should not give
due response, as data controller.

Obviously, it is not intended (according to EDREAMS) "that an organization must
have a filtering and notification management system on any channel that, not
only be extremely urgent -due to said nature of the period of exercise of rights
included in the data protection regulations-, but also that it is infallible. And if,
In case of not having it, a disciplinary file would be opened against
The organization, despite having appropriate measures for said channels, does not
specially dedicated to the exercise of rights”. But in this case, you can't
refuse that by sending an email to the customer service address
customer service-de@contact.opodo.com,
 the complaining party could wait
reasonably that your request was attended by EDREAMS.

In this sense, in section 53 of the aforementioned Directives 01/2022 on the
rights of data subjects- Right of access, the EDPB “…encourages data subjects to
data controllers to provide the most appropriate communication channels
suitable and easy to use, in accordance with article 12(2) and the
Article 25, to allow the interested party to make an effective request. Nevertheless,
if the interested party makes a request through a communication channel
provided by the controller that is different from that indicated as
preferable, the request will generally be considered effective and the person responsible for the
processing shall process such request accordingly (see examples below).
continuation). Data controllers must make every effort
reasonable to ensure that the exercise of the rights of the user is facilitated.
interested (for example, in the event that the interested party sends the data of the request to a
employee who is on leave, an automatic message informing the interested party
about an alternative communication channel for your request could be an effort
reasonable)."

In this regard, this Agency insists that the attention email address
to the client is a perfectly valid address to request the exercise of the
rights recognized in the GDPR by the interested parties, since it is the
preferred email address for customers to communicate with
with the company for any matter (regardless of whether a notice is provided
at the footer of the emails that are sent, an issue that is not the subject of
of the procedure, as indicated above). It is also considered to be
EDREAMS obligation to arbitrate the necessary internal mechanisms so that this
request for rights was redirected internally to the team that the company
determined as the most suitable to give due response.

In this sense, this Agency wishes to refer to the first example of the section
56 of the aforementioned Guidelines in which "a data controller X provides,
on its website and in its privacy policy, two emails – the email

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/30

general email address of the data controller: contacto@X.com and email
email address of the data protection contact point of the data controller
treatment: requests@X.com. Additionally, the data controller X
indicates on its website that to send any query or request regarding the
processing of personal data, you should contact the contact point of
data protection to the indicated email. However, the interested party sends
a request to the general email of the data controller:
contact@X.com. In this case, the data controller must carry out all
reasonable efforts to make your services aware of the request, which was
made through general email, so that it can be redirected to the point
data protection contact information and is answered within the period established by
the GDPR. Moreover, the data controller cannot extend the period for
respond to the request, solely because the interested party has sent a request to the
general email of the data controller and not to the contact point of
Data Protection."

In this regard, this Agency understands that this first example would be the assumption that
gave in the present case. The complaining party has sent its request to exercise
rights to a customer service email address provided by the
company you are targeting. Therefore, the data controller (EDREAMS)
should have made all "reasonable efforts to make your services aware of the
request, which was made through general email, so that
can be redirected to the data protection contact point and is answered within
of the term established by the RGPD”, as indicated in the aforementioned Guidelines, of
in such a way that it was redirected to the data protection contact point that
correspond, in order to be able to attend to it within the period established by the GDPR. By
Therefore, this Agency considers that the complaining party could "expect
reasonably" that your request was met by sending it to the address customer
service-de@contact.opodo.com.

Furthermore, this Agency wishes to point out that section 56 of the aforementioned
Guidelines provide that “However, CEPD recommends, as a good
practice, that data controllers introduce, where possible,
mechanisms to improve internal communication between employees about the
requests received by those who are not competent to deal with those
requests. To facilitate the exercise of rights of the interested parties”.

In this sense, it is not unreasonable (neither impractical nor an effort
disproportionate) that the data controller must implement the
necessary internal mechanisms so that, at least as regards the
customer service email addresses, where you expect to receive
requests of all kinds (including, for the exercise of rights that the GDPR recognizes
to the interested parties), said requests are redirected internally as soon as possible to the team
intended for this purpose, so that they are answered within the period established by the
GDPR (and which the Guidelines themselves indicate cannot be extended for the mere fact
sent to a generic email address). As for the
measures for which EDREAMS asks for it, it would suffice in this case, for
example, by forwarding the email requesting the right to
email address of the team provided by EDREAMS for this purpose.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/30

The fact that in the present case all requests for GDPR rights
should go to a specific point of contact, it is a matter outside the
concerned, which is solely the responsibility of the organization that EDREAMS deemed
convenient and these interested parties cannot be forced to know the organization of
EDREAMS or impose a certain contact point on them to exercise their
rights, although this Agency (and the aforementioned Guidelines) recognize the possibility of
that data controllers provide a preferred method for processing
exercise of these rights.

In any case, this Agency considers that the email address
customer service-de@contact.opodo.com cannot be understood as an address
“random or incorrect, not provided directly by the data controller”,
nor "any communication channel that is clearly not intended to
receive requests related to the rights of the interested party”, in the terms outlined
in Directives 01/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection, without prejudice to
that EDREAMS had foreseen a different preferential method of contact.

In the present case, this Agency considers that by sending an email to the
address customer service-de@contact.opodo.com the complaining party could wait
reasonably that your request was granted. And that, in any case, it was an obligation to
EDREAMS will forward said request internally to the team designated for this purpose.

Lastly, EDREAMS alleges that it wishes to record and demonstrate that the measures
in force at the time of the alleged infringement complied with the most rigorous
norms, guidelines, standards and recommendations to be able to face the risks
and that they were adequate and suitable taking into account the state of the art, the
application costs, and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing,
as well as risks of variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms
of natural persons. And transfers to the AEPD the acceptance of any type of
proposal for improvement or recommendation on your part in relation to compliance with the
normative.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that it has not been demonstrated in the
file that "the measures in force at the time of the alleged infringement complied with
with the most rigorous norms, guidelines, standards and recommendations to be able to
face the risks and that they were appropriate and suitable taking into account the
state of the art, implementation costs, and the nature, scope, context and
the purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of variable probability and severity for
the rights and freedoms of natural persons", since it is not the object of the
this matter proceeds.
 
Therefore, for all the above, this Agency rejects everything indicated in the
present allegation.

IV.

Right of erasure

Article 17 “Right to erasure (“the right to be forgotten”)” of the GDPR establishes:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/30

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain without undue delay from the person responsible for the
treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete without undue delay the personal data when any
of the following circumstances:

a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which
those that were collected or otherwise treated;
b) the interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment of
in accordance with Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2),
letter a), and this is not based on another legal basis;
c) the data subject opposes the processing in accordance with article 21, paragraph 1,
and no other legitimate reasons for the treatment prevail, or the interested party
object to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2);
d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed;
e) the personal data must be deleted for the fulfillment of a
legal obligation established in the Law of the Union or of the States
members that applies to the data controller;
f) the personal data have been obtained in connection with the offer of services
of the information society mentioned in article 8, paragraph 1.

(…)
3. Sections 1 and 2 will not apply when the treatment is necessary:
a) to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information;
b) for compliance with a legal obligation that requires data processing
imposed by the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment, or for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible;
c) for reasons of public interest in the field of public health in accordance with
Article 9, paragraph 2, letters h) and i), and paragraph 3;
d) for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or
statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89(1), to the extent that
the right indicated in paragraph 1 could make it impossible or hinder
seriously impair the achievement of the objectives of such treatment, or
e) for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims.”

In the present case, it is clear that the complaining party had requested EDREAMS the
deletion of your personal data on numerous occasions by email
customer service-de@contact.opodo.com, the first on October 28, 2020 and the
last on November 27, 2020.

Exercise of the rights of the interested party

V

Article 12 "Transparency of information, communication and modalities of
exercise of the rights of the interested party" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. The person in charge of the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
interested all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in
particular any information directed specifically to a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/30

electronics. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally as long as the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.
2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the exercise of their rights by the interested party.
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph
2, the person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise
your rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you do not
is in a position to identify the interested party.
3. The person responsible for the treatment will provide the interested party with information regarding their
proceedings on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, without
undue delay and, in any case, within one month of receipt
of the request. This period may be extended by another two months if necessary,
taking into account the complexity and number of requests. The responsible
will inform the interested party of any of said extensions within a period of one month from
from receipt of the request, indicating the reasons for the delay. when the
interested party submits the application by electronic means, the information will be provided by
electronic means when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be
facilitate otherwise.
4. If the person responsible for the treatment does not process the request of the interested party, he will
will inform without delay, and no later than one month after receipt of the
application, the reasons for not acting and the possibility of presenting a
claim before a control authority and take legal action. (…)”

In the present case, it is clear that the complaining party requested the deletion of his account
and your personal data up to 5 times. The last one on the 27th of
November 2020. However, it was not until March 19, 2021 that EDREAMS
duly attended to said request, after receiving a request for information from
part of this Agency, together with the corresponding claim.

Therefore, in accordance with the evidence available at this time
resolution of the disciplinary procedure, it is considered that the known facts
constitute an infringement, attributable to EDREAMS, for violation of the
Article 12 of the GDPR, in conjunction with Article 17 of the GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 12 of the GDPR

SAW

The aforementioned infringement of article 12 of the GDPR supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/30

"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 74 "Infringements considered minor" of
the LOPDGDD indicates:

"The remaining infractions of a legal nature are considered minor and will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:
(…)

c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless it results from
application of the provisions of article 72.1.k) of this organic law”.

Penalty for violation of article 12 of the GDPR

VII

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the GDPR, the aforementioned Regulation provides
in section 2.b) of article 58 "Powers" the following:

"Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:

(…)
b) send a warning to any person in charge or person in charge of the treatment
when the processing operations have infringed the provisions of the
this Regulation; (…)”

For its part, recital 148 of the GDPR indicates:

“In the event of a minor infraction, or if the fine likely to be imposed
constitutes a disproportionate burden on a natural person, rather than
penalty by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. should however
special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, to its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
to the degree of responsibility or any relevant prior infringement, to the manner in which
that the supervisory authority has become aware of the infringement, to compliance
of measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, to adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstances.”

According to the evidence available at the present time of
disciplinary procedure resolution, it is considered that the offense in question
is slight for the purposes of article 83.2 of the GDPR given that in the present case,
taking into account that there was no record in this EDREAMS Agency for not
having duly attended to a right of deletion, to the circumstances so
exceptional circumstances that were the cause of such request not having been duly
addressed and that, as soon as it became aware of the claim, EDREAMS proceeded to
respond to the request for deletion of the personal data of the complaining party and to
that it adopted measures tending to mitigate the risk that a situation such as that of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/30

this proceeding occurs again, all of which allows us to consider a
reduction of guilt in the facts, it is considered in accordance with the Law not to impose
sanction consisting of an administrative fine and replace it by directing a warning to
EDREAMS.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS VACACIONES EDREAMS, S.L., with NIF B61965778, for a
infringement of Article 12 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a
warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VACACIONES EDREAMS, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

In accordance with the provisions of article 60.7 of the GDPR, this information will be
resolution, once it is final, to the control authorities concerned and to the Committee
European Data Protection.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-181022

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/30

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

