Press release of the TLfDI

Education platform BW: LfDI advises due to high

data protection risks from the use of the

tested version of Microsoft Office 365

schools off

Erfurt, May 12, 2021

The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information

(TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse, would like to thank you today for the attached press release

the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Baden-Württemberg,

inform, which was published on May 7, 2021:

"
Education platform BW: LfDI advises due to high data protection
Risks of using the tested version of Microsoft Office 365
Schools out - alternatives should be strengthened

Background and consequences of the recommendation

The Ministry of Education had planned it as part of the education platform for schools
a specially configured version of Microsoft 365 from the US software manufacturer
Integrate Microsoft to provide teachers, students and parents with a suitable digital
To provide infrastructure for teaching and education.

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Stefan Brink
was asked by the Ministry in a pilot project to introduce this software
to be active in an advisory capacity from mid-January to the end of March.

In this context, the LfDI tested the specifically for use in schools
configured version of the product MS 365 in a practical test. About this
The state commissioner has the necessary technology, since he has the means for his own
testing laboratory have been made available by Parliament.

Postal address :

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

- 2 -

 
 
Essentially, it was checked whether the data protection impact assessment
(DPFA) of the ministry from October 2020
(press release of
State representative "LfDI accompanies the pilot project of the Ministry of Education for
Use of Microsoft Office 365 in schools")
  proposed
Remedial actions to minimize the risks of Microsoft software
actually implemented and proven to be sufficient; was checked
also which data flows actually measurably took place during pilot operation,
in particular whether unwanted or not requested
Data processing, for example from telemetry, diagnostic (or otherwise
designated) data, were recognizable and
to what extent the processing
personal data of teachers and students for own purposes
Microsoft's can be determined.
 
As part of this audit, it was also examined whether data in third countries
flow outside the scope of the GDPR and whether through a secure
encrypted communication the possibilities of access by the
Provider or third parties could be effectively restricted.
 
Random samples were taken in several areas for the tests in the practical test
taken. During its consultation, the LfDI was in regular contact with
the Ministry of Education and representatives of the software and service provider.
 
Although the tests due to the scope and further development of the services
could not be conclusive, the results were sufficiently clear,
to make a recommendation to the Ministry of Education.
 
The state representative Stefan Brink assesses the risks when using the now
tested Microsoft services in the school sector as unacceptable and advises against
to use them there. The state representative also recommends that in the school sector
further strengthen existing alternatives.
 
“Pupils, parents and teachers want digital and
legally secure solutions for the classroom. We support that,” says Stefan Brink.
For this reason, a great deal of effort was put into the pilot project to try and clarify
about data flows, legal bases and technical measures of the provider
achieved, which, however, was not achieved satisfactorily in the end.
 
Those responsible - and these are the schools (cf. Article 4 No. 7 DS-GVO) - have at
chosen system does not have full control over the overall system and the US
American processors. You can after evaluating the
state representative
understand which
personal data, how and for what purposes are processed and they
cannot demonstrate that the processing is limited to what is necessary for this purpose
minimum is reduced. But they would have to do all this in order to avoid their accountability
to comply with Article 5 paragraph 2 of the GDPR. Also, for some transmissions
personal data to Microsoft - sometimes also in regions outside the EU -

sufficient

currently

Not

 

- 3 -

no legal basis recognizable, which is required according to DS-GVO. That's true
especially for international data flows in the light of the Schrems II judgment
European Court of Justice in 2020.

For the school sector, the LfDI therefore has a high risk of violating rights
and freedoms of data subjects. This applies to the envisaged
Expanding the system to include accounts for the students all the more.
The state has a guarantor position for the students, who are usually minors
and students who are also subject to compulsory schooling and therefore the
use
In this
Depending on the constellation, the state representative assesses the risk of the software used
as unacceptably high.

cannot avoid their personal data.

LfDI Brink: "It doesn't seem entirely impossible, with other variants
the
products used in the pilot and among significantly modified ones
Conditions of use to work in the school area in a legally compliant manner. It's in the
past months, even after intensive cooperation and with a high level of
However, personnel deployment failed to find such a solution.” Given
of this result it appears more than
for the
Schools responsible for data processing, also with the support of the
Ministry of culture, in the foreseeable future may be able to test the products
legally safe to use.

questionable whether it

From the point of view of the LfDI, an education platform definitely has a long way to go. she could
for example from different tools such as Big Blue Button and
Moodle, which is already being used extensively by schools across the country.
Since these are operated by the state itself, many are in the pilot project
In principle, identified risks are not included here.

The state representative will not be on his own initiative before the summer school holidays
Tests in schools with the aim of banning products
make. From the start of the new school year, however, the authority will
then pursue existing complaints vigorously. [...]"

Press contact:

Cagda's karakurt

Telephone: 0711/615541-23

Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de"

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

