 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.412.2 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e m i t t e i l u n g 

November 5th 2019 

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection Imposes Fine on Real Estate Company 
 
On October 30th 2019, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of 
Information issued a fine of around 14.5 million Euros against Deutsche Wohnen SE for 
violations of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).  
 
During on-site inspections in June 2017 and March 2019, the supervisory authority found that 
the company used an archive system for the storage of personal data of tenants that did not 
provide the possibility of removing data that was no longer required. Personal data of tenants 
was stored without checking whether storage was permissible or even necessary. In some of 
the individual cases that were examined, it was therefore possible to find years-old private 
data from tenants that were preserved although they were no longer necessary for the 
purpose of their original collection. This involved data on the personal and financial 
circumstances of tenants, such as salary statements, self-disclosure forms, extracts from 
employment and training contracts, tax, social security and health insurance data and bank 
statements. 
 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection urgently recommended an adjustment of the 
archive system during the first inspection in 2017. Nevertheless, in March 2019, more than 
one and a half years after the first inspection and nine months after the start of application of 
the GDPR, the company was still unable to either demonstrate a clean-up of its database or 
present legal reasons for the continued storage. The company actually did make preliminary 
preparations to remedy the deficiencies. However, those measures did not suffice to align the 
storage of personal data with the legal requirements. The imposition of a fine for an 
infringement of Article 25 (1) GDPR and Article 5 GDPR during the period between May 2018 
and March 2019 was therefore mandatory. 
 
The GDPR requires supervisory authorities to ensure that fines in each individual case are not 
only effective and proportionate, but also dissuasive. The starting point for the calculation of 
fines is therefore, among other things, the previous year's worldwide turnover of the 
companies concerned. Since annual turnover of Deutsche Wohnen SE exceeded 1.4 billion 
Euros according to its 2018 annual report, the legally prescribed limit for fines to be assessed 
for the type of data protection violation that was discovered was around 28 million Euros. 
 
For the specific determination of the amount of the fine, the Berlin Commissioner for Data 
Protection has used the legal criteria, taking into account both aggravating and mitigating 
factors. The fact that Deutsche Wohnen SE had deliberately set up the archive structure in 
question and that the data concerned had been processed in an inadmissible manner over a 
long period of time was considered to be particularly aggravating. On the other hand, it was 
taken into account as a mitigating factor that the company took initial measures to remedy the 

 
Verantwortlich: Dalia Kues 

Geschäftsstelle: Cristina Vecchi 

E-Mail: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219 
10969 Berlin 

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900 
Fax: 030 2155050 

 

 

 

 

    

- 2 - 

illegal situation and cooperated formally well with the supervisory authority. In view of the fact 
that the company could not be proven to have misused access to the inadmissibly stored data, 
a fine of about half the upper limit was appropriate. 
 
In addition to sanctioning this structural violation, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection 
imposed fines of between 6,000 and 17,000 Euros on the company for the inadmissible 
storage of personal data of tenants in 15 specific individual cases as well.  
 
The decision to impose a fine has not yet become final. Deutsche Wohnen SE has the right to 
lodge an appeal against the fine. 
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk:  
 
"Sadly, in the course of our supervisory practice, we frequently come across data graveyards 
like the one we found at Deutsche Wohnen SE. The significance of such abuses unfortunately 
only becomes clear when those masses of hoarded data are stolen and abused, for example 
due to cyber-attacks. But even without such serious consequences, we are dealing with a 
flagrant violation of the principles of data protection, which are intended to protect people from 
precisely such risks. It is gratifying that, adopting the GDPR, the legislator has introduced the 
possibility of sanctioning such structural deficiencies before the worst case scenario comes to 
pass. I recommend to all data controllers that they check their archive systems for 
compatibility with the GDPR". 

 

