1/16

 File No.:

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On August 8, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against ENDESA ENERGÍA,
S.A.U. (hereinafter the claimed party). Notified the initiation agreement and after analyzing
the allegations presented, on November 14, 2022, the
proposed resolution that is transcribed below:

<<

File No.: EXP202200455

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), on December 21,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The
The claim is directed against ENDESA ENERGÍA, S.A.U. with NIF A81948077 (in
below, the claimed party). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:
following:

The claimant states that, on December 16, 2021, he received in his
address the invoice of the contract that has been maintained for years with the entity
claimed, in the name of a third person (her niece) and that, after contacting the
claimed, was informed that a third party had changed the ownership of the contract, without
Your consent.

Along with the claim, he provides an invoice from December 2021 addressed to his niece and
bank statement, dated November 2021, with the charge to your bank account.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), by means of electronic notification, was received in
dated January 18, 2022, as stated in the certificate in the file.

In response to the request for an extension of the one-month period that was granted to
to proceed to the analysis of the claim presented, on February 3,
2022, it was agreed to extend it up to a maximum of 10 business days.

On March 4, 2022, this Agency received a written response in the
indicating that on December 16, 2021, the claimant received in his
address the invoice for a contract with Endesa Energía, in the name of a third party
person, associated with the supply point where his father, B.B.B. and in whose name
acts A.A.A., was the holder of a contract with the company Energía XXI Comercializadora
of reference S.L.U. (hereinafter, "Energía XXI"), whose payment was owned by the owner himself.
A.A.A..
It states that, as reflected in Endesa's internal systems
Energy, dated October 21, 2021, the sales channel of Endesa Energía
"Commercial Agents" contacted C.C.C. by telephone, through the supplier
Eastern Andalusia Energy, S.L.U. (hereinafter, "EAO"), who, under a contract of
provision of telemarketing services and acting as the person in charge of the
treatment, makes recruitment calls to potential clients who have previously
given their express consent for this, through the offer of products and
Endesa Energía and Endesa X services.

It states that Endesa Energía has detected anomalous behavior on the part of
your employee since, as it has been found out, the operator did not provide the SMS
correct with the confirmation of contracting of C.C.C., since it did not correspond
with the telephone number confirmed in the call by C.C.C.. In this case,
the operator carried out a change of ownership and marketing company, in
a supply point of which the person in whose name it was registered was not the owner
the contract and, in addition, provided an invalid certified SMS, as acceptance of the
hiring.

Finally, it is indicated that, although the incident was caused by the procedure
of an operator that strayed from the procedure, from the Office of the
Endesa's Data Protection Officer has urged Endesa Energía to,
without prejudice to the ordinary audits that it carries out, reinforce, even more, the
controls regarding the actions carried out by the EAO provider. Also, it
has recommended Endesa Energía to send a warning to EAO indicating the
seriousness of the events that occurred and the damage caused to the interested party.

THIRD: On March 21, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On August 8, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.4 of the GDPR.

The startup agreement was sent, in accordance with the rules established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by means of electronic notification,
being received on August 10, 2022, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

FIFTH: In response to the request for an extension of the term to present
allegations, on August 11, 2022, it was agreed to extend it up to a
maximum of 5 days.

In response to the letter requesting a copy of the referenced file, on December 19,
August 2022, access was given to it.

SIXTH: Notified the aforementioned start agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the claimed party submitted a written
of allegations in which, in summary, he stated that unlawfulness cannot be appreciated
in the conduct of Endesa Energía inasmuch as it limited itself to addressing the different
C.C.C. contracting requests, among which was the one corresponding to
the house located at ***ADDRESS.1, and to facilitate the corresponding procedures for
allow the change of ownership of the access contract, following the protocols
established, without this entailing allowing access to the personal data of the
original holder of the access contract.

It points out that the security measures that Endesa Energía deployed to guarantee the
protection of the personal data of the interested parties, they worked correctly
since no personal data of any third party was disclosed, and the fact that it was
produce an incident in the processing of the contract by providing an SMS
invalid confirmation certificate and the sale went ahead, does not imply that
Endesa Energía lacks action protocols or procedures and that the
security measures have not been adequate to guarantee the protection of the
personal data of its customers means, plain and simple, that a
operator deviated from the established procedure, providing a certified SMS
corresponding to a telephone number of another sale, without this, in any
case, has caused any personal data of the clients to have been seen
unprotected.

Alternatively, in the event that the main request is not met, it requests,
a reduction of the penalty initially set, taking into account the circumstances
mitigating measures, specifically, the measures adopted to alleviate any possible
detriment to the claimant or the person on whose behalf he acts, as well as to avoid
that similar events occur in the future; and the severity and episodic nature of
the alleged infringement, since the necessary procedures were initiated to facilitate the
replacement of the electricity supply contract for the dwelling in question with the
previous marketing company, as well as the cancellation of the three invoices
emitted by the consumption of energy during the time in which the contract object of
claim was active.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

Finally, it points out that the action protocols of the sales channel have been reinforced
"Commercial Agents" and that the facts claimed respond to an event
isolated and punctual, in which only one person has been affected who also
maintained the electricity supply, without having to pay any bill for the
energy consumed and that there has been a failure in the contracting process,
provide an invalid confirmation SMS certificate.

A recording of the telephone call made by the energy provider is provided.
Eastern Andalusia, S.L.U.
  
SEVENTH: Consequently, not having requested the practice of tests, it is considered
incorporated for evidentiary purposes the documentation provided by the claimant, as well as
such as the allegations to the initiation agreement, all documentation of which
has the claimant.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

FIRST: It is established that the claimant was the holder of a contract for the supply of
electricity with the company Energía XXI associated with the supply point located in
***ADDRESS 1.

PROVEN FACTS

SECOND: It is verified that the operator carried out a change of ownership and
trading company, at a supply point of which the person was not the owner
in whose name the contract was registered, providing an invalid certified SMS,
as acceptance of the contract.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

In the present case, on October 21, 2021, the Endesa sales channel
Energy "Commercial Agents" contacted C.C.C. by telephone, with the purpose of
to offer you a bonus in contracting the electricity rate. In this way, it
requested through the telephone channel, registration in the electrical supply for the home
of the complaining party, which was processed under the modality "C2-Change of
marketer with modifications in the access contract", in accordance with the
contained in the CNMV Resolution of December 17, 2019.

Regarding the obligations that the claimed party claims for compliance with the
specific regulations of the electricity sector, this instruction has nothing to say beyond
that they cannot suppose in any case a violation of the rest of the
applicable regulations.
The protocol for the management of change of marketer with change of owner
attributes to the incoming marketer the condition of the client's sole interlocutor and
the responsibility of executing all the actions that were necessary for the
change management.
In this sense, it cannot be accepted that, even in order to comply with what is there
established, proceed to obviate the necessary compliance with the regulations on
protection of personal data.
For these purposes, Law 24/2013, of December 26, on the Electricity Sector (hereinafter,
"Law of the Electricity Sector"), establishes the consumer's right to change company
marketer in accordance with the provisions of the European directives of the market
electricity inside.
For this, the regulations establish the general process that must be carried out between the
new marketer or incoming marketer, the distributor and
existing marketer or outgoing marketer. Said change implies the registration of
a new energy supply contract with the incoming retailer and the deregistration
of the existing contract with the outgoing marketer, through an agent who
execute the change, which is the distributor.

Article 46 of the Electricity Sector Law establishes among the obligations of the
marketers, in its section 1 letter g) that of "Formalize the contracts of
supply with consumers in accordance with the regulations that
be applicable”. The mention by the Law of the obligation to formalize the contract
among the obligations of the marketers shows that it corresponds to
the marketer and, in the event of a change of marketer, to the
incoming marketer, verify the identity and the voluntary, correct and informed
provision of consent by the consumer, who is his counterpart in the
supply contract.

In this sense, the new marketer (the claimed party) will have to manage
the cancellation of the contract of the claimant with his outgoing marketer, which is carried out
processing your personal data.

Transferring these considerations to the present case, and having been accredited
that the defendant processed the personal data of the claimant, as stated in the
file, the claimed party did not comply with its obligations with due diligence,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

because, before activating the procedure to change the supplier, you should
have collected a valid SMS confirmation certificate.
And it is that, as stated in the file, the conduct of the claimed party
led to the violation of article 32 of the GDPR, by carrying out a change of
ownership and marketing company, at a supply point that was not
holder the person in whose name the contract was registered by providing an SMS
invalid certificate, as acceptance of the contract. Thus, it was not verified
adequately the identity of the person who requested the modification of the contract.

The defendant himself in writing dated March 4, 2022 has stated that:
"(...) EAO has informed Endesa Energía that it has detected behavior
anomalous on the part of your employee since, as it has been possible to ascertain, the operator
You did not provide the correct SMS with the confirmation of the hiring of Ms. C.C.C.,
since it did not correspond to the phone number confirmed in the call
by Mrs. C.C.C., (…)”
Therefore, despite the existing security measures, the personal data of the
complaining party were treated by the respondent entity when issuing and sending to its
domicile the invoice of a contract, in the name of a third person. That is, it has
There has been a lack of security measures in the verification of the data of the
person who requested the modification of the contract, therefore the teleoperator in that
moment in which the data was being verified to proceed with the contracting
of the electricity supply with the contracting party, should have been diligent in adopting the precautions
necessary and relevant.

The defendant erred when stating that, simply and simply, an operator moved away from the
established procedure, providing a certified SMS corresponding to a
other sales phone number as security measures need to be taken
in attention to each and every one of the risks present in a data processing of
personal character, including among them, the human factor.

The Supreme Court (Sentences of 04/16 and 22/1991) considers that the element
guilty party, it follows "... that the action or omission, classified as an infraction
administratively punishable, must be, in any case, attributable to its author, for
fraud or imprudence, negligence or inexcusable ignorance.”
For its part, the National Court, in a Judgment of 06/29/2001, in matters of
protection of personal data, has declared that "... the simple
negligence or breach of the duties that the Law imposes on people
those responsible for files or data processing to exercise extreme diligence...".
The Supreme Court has understood that imprudence exists whenever
neglects a legal duty of care, that is, when the offending subject does not
behave with the required diligence. Diligence whose degree of demand will be determined
in view of concurrent circumstances, such as the special value of the property
legal protection and the professionalism required of the offender. In this sense, the Judgment
of 06/05/1998 requires professionals in the sector “...a duty to know
especially the applicable norms”. In similar terms are pronounced the
Judgments of 12/17/1997, 03/11/1998, 03/02 and 09/17/1999.
Applying the previous doctrine, the National Court, in several sentences, among others
those dated 02/14/ and 09/20/2002 and 04/13/2005, require entities that operate in
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

the data market a special diligence when carrying out the use or
treatment of the same, given that it is the protection of a right
of the people to whom they refer, for which reason their depositaries
must be especially diligent and careful when carrying out operations with
the same and must always opt for the interpretation most favorable to the protection
of the legal assets protected by the norm.
In this regard, the claimed party failed to comply with the legal mandate established in the
Article 32 of the GDPR since the security measures were not adequate for
guarantee the protection of the personal data of its clients and must be
improved after it has been verified that they have not been sufficient to avoid the
reported facts.

The defendant also invokes the reduction of the amount of the sanction by reducing the
same.

In this regard, it should be noted that taking into account that it is an infringement
classified as serious and that in accordance with article 83.4 of the GDPR may be
sanctioned “with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the one with the highest amount,” a significant reduction of this is already applied.

The STS, Chamber 3, of December 16, 2003 (Rec. 4996/98) already indicated that the
principle of proportionality of sanctions requires that "the discretion that is
granted to the Administration for the application of the sanction to be carried out weighing
in any case the concurrent circumstances, in order to achieve the due
proportionality between the facts charged and the responsibility demanded".

Principle of proportionality that is not understood to be violated, considering
provided the sanction proposed to the entity, for the proven facts and
considering the concurrent circumstances, which are detailed below.

Consequently, the allegations must be dismissed, meaning that the
arguments presented do not distort the essential content of the offense that
is declared committed nor does it imply sufficient justification or exculpation.

II

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the GDPR, there is
processing of personal data, since ENDESA
ENERGY, S.A.U. is a company in the electric power trade sector that,
for the development of its electrical production and services activity, carries out
processing of personal data.
It carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, since it is
who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the GDPR:
"responsible for the treatment" or "responsible": the natural or legal person, authority
public authority, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the criteria
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

Specific reasons for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the
Member states.
Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of security"
security of personal data" (hereinafter security breach) as "all
those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
Accidental or illegal transfer of personal data transmitted, stored or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.”
In the present case, there is a personal data security breach in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality,
whenever the claimed entity has allowed access to the personal data of a
client without their consent when carrying out a change of ownership and company
trading company, at a supply point of which the person whose
name the contract was registered, also providing an invalid certified SMS,
as acceptance of the contract.

It should be noted that the identification of a security breach does not imply the impossibility
sanction directly by this Agency, since it is necessary to analyze the
diligence of managers and managers and security measures applied.
The security of personal data is regulated in article 32 of the GDPR, which
regulates the safety of the treatment.

IV.

GDPR Article 32

Article 32 of the GDPR, security of treatment, establishes the following:

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which may include, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the safety of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration will be given to
take into account the risks presented by data processing, in particular as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to such data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and
have access to personal data can only process such data by following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of
the Union or of the Member States.

Recital 74 of the GDPR establishes:

  "The responsibility of the data controller must be established for
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.”

It should be noted that the GDPR in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that is the object
of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, probability risks
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

In addition, security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, noting that the determination of the technical measures and
organizational procedures must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption, the
ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level,
particular account of the risks presented by data processing, such as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this sense, recital 83 of the GDPR states that:

"(83) In order to maintain security and prevent processing from infringing what
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as the
encryption. These measures must ensure an adequate level of security, including the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and nature of the personal data to be
protect yourself. When assessing risk in relation to data security, considerations should be
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the destruction, loss or accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or processed in another way, or communication or access not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

The responsibility of the defendant is determined by the lack of measures of
security, since it is responsible for making decisions aimed at implementing
effectively the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the confidentiality of the data,
restoring their availability and preventing access to them in the event of an incident
physical or technical

In the specific case under review, the security measures failed when processing the
modification of the contract without adequately verifying the personality of the person
requested the change, managing to carry out a change of ownership and company
trading company, at a supply point of which the person whose
name the contract was registered, also providing an invalid certified SMS,
as acceptance of the contract.

The known facts constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, for violation of article 32 GDPR, since the security measures of
the claimed entity are not adequate to guarantee the protection of the data of
personal character of their clients and must be improved after having been
verified that they have not been sufficient to prevent the facts denounced.

Therefore, the accredited facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed party, for violation of article 32 GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

V

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the GDPR supposes the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

to)

the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to ensure a level of security appropriate to the
risk of treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

SAW

Responsibility

Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in
Chapter III, relating to the "Principles of the Sanctioning Power", in article 28,
under the heading "Responsibility", the following:

"1. They may only be penalized for acts constituting an administrative offense
physical and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous patrimonies, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or fault."

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
constitutes the element of guilt.

VII

Sanction

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
determine whether the controller or processor notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent
gives; i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
given previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to
the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to certification mechanisms.
fications approved in accordance with article 42,
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
as the financial benefits obtained or the losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

For its part, article 76 "Sanctions and corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD
has:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of processing
of personal data.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger process by absorption after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate

h) The submission by the person in charge or in charge, with character
voluntary, alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
cases in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

data.

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, for the purpose of setting the amount of the penalty for
infraction of article 32, it is appropriate to graduate the fine taking into account:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

As aggravating factors:

Article 76.2 b) LOPDGDD: "The link between the offender's activity and the performance of
tion of personal data processing”.

The business activity of the claimed entity requires continuous treatment of
personal data, both customers and third parties. Also, the entity
claimed performs for the development of its activity, a high volume of treatment
of personal data since it is one of the largest companies in the country in its
business sector or activity.

Considering the exposed factors, the valuation that reaches the amount of the fine
is €50,000 for violation of article 32 of the aforementioned GDPR, regarding security
of the processing of personal data.

VIII

Measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctions
ENDESA ENERGÍA, S.A.U., with NIF A81948077, for a violation of article 32 of the
GDPR, typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR, with a fine of 50,000.00 euros and
order the implementation of corrective measures that prevent in the future
repeat similar events.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP, you will be
informs that it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of this. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 40,000.00 euros and its payment will imply the
completion of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction will be conditioned by the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

withdrawal or waiver of any administrative action or appeal against the
sanction.

In case you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of the specified amount
above, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 85.2, you must do it
effective by entering the restricted account number IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-
0000-0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, in the
banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept: the reference number
of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, for
voluntary payment, reduction of the amount of the sanction. You must also send the
Proof of admission to the Sub-Directorate General of Inspection to proceed to close
The file.

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is revealed.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your defense and
present the documents and information that it deems pertinent, in accordance with
Article 89.2 of the LPACAP.
R.R.R.
INSTRUCTOR

926-181022

>>

SECOND: On November 23, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to the
payment of the penalty in the amount of 40,000 euros using the reduction
provided for in the motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOURTH: In the previously transcribed resolution proposal, the
acts constituting an infringement, and it was proposed that, by the Director, the
responsible for adopting adequate measures to adjust its performance to the
regulations, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been indicated, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of the procedure in accordance with the
established in article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: REQUEST ENDESA ENERGÍA, S.A.U. so that within a
month notify the Agency of the adoption of the measures described in the
legal foundations of the proposed resolution transcribed in this
resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to ENDESA ENERGÍA, S.A.U..

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

1331-281122

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

