
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    02/25/2021
                                Kugelmann pays tribute to his Hessian colleague Ronellenfitsch - Close cooperation with neighboring federal state is to be continuedThe Hessian state data protection officer Michael Ronnellenfitsch is retiring after almost two decades. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, comments on the change of staff in Hesse. "Professor Michael Ronellenfitsch is officially leaving today after more than 17 years as Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information," says Kugelmann. He is the longest-serving data protection officer of a German supervisory authority; For almost two decades he has accompanied and helped shape the tremendous change in the digital world and the associated data protection challenges. Michael Ronellenfitsch has always campaigned for citizens' right to informational self-determination with a great deal of passion and expertise, often with a pinch of humour. At the same time, he was the constitutional conscience of the German data protection supervisory authorities and constantly called to mind the basic constitutional structures. I wish him all the best for his new chapter in life.”
Kugelmann continues: “I look forward to working just as closely with his successor, Professor Alexander Roßnagel. Mr. Roßnagel is a proven data protection expert who has been helping to shape the development of data protection from a scientific point of view for years. He always recognized future topics early on, took them up and discussed them expertly. Against this background, I am sure that he will now provide important impetus in the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments as state representative. For example, the current debates on the Corona warning app, the ECJ judgment "Schrems II" and the use of US software products in accordance with data protection regulations show that data protection officers in Germany should pull together: Together we can data protection is best promoted and compliance with the existing rules can be effectively enforced together.”
                                return
                            



