THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner
for data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

December 2, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 “Sports heroes – remembered or forgotten?

Dealing with the successes of former
GDR Olympic champion today"
 
Online discussion on Saturday, December 4th, 8 p.m.:
Freedom rights in elite sport
 
How self-determined could athletes in the former

GDR and FRG pursue their sport and how is it

today about the right to freedom in competitive sports? About that

speak on Saturday from 8 p.m. as part of the exhibition

“Sport heroes – remembered or forgotten?” the Olympic champions

in shot put Udo Beyer and Ilona Longo (born Slupianek)

and the discus thrower and Olympian Alwin Wagner.

Udo Beyer represented the GDR in Montreal in 1976

Start and won Olympic gold, Ilona Longo in the year

1980 in Moscow. Alwin Wagner took for the FRG in Los

Angeles participated in the 1984 Olympics.

 

Both in the GDR and in the FRG were successful

Some of the Olympic participants are revered as sports heroes and

stood as role models for the “better system” in each case. the

athletes

moved

itself

always

also

in the

tension

of competitive sports, politics and

Sports systems in which there was also doping and children

went through and determined extensive performance controls

sports have been “assigned” to. Contacts of the athletes

among themselves, relationships and friendships

quickly politically very interesting for the officials.

 

The West German discus thrower Alwin Wagner, for example, belonged in

his sport among the best of his generation, was fivefold

German champion and competed in Los Angeles in 1984

Olympia. Alwin Wagner used to be a West German athlete

also close contacts with, for example, his GDR colleague Wolfgang

Schmidt. Because Schmidt these and other relationships in the

"West", he was because of possible escape from the republic

eyed, convicted in 1982 and eventually served one and a half

years in prison. Later then Schmidt should the GDR

leaving. He stayed with Alwin Wagner, who gave him a

became friend. Schmidt followed his passion again and

was third at the European Championships in 1990.

 

Alwin Wagner, Udo Beyer and Ilona will speak on Saturday

Longo about their lives as top athletes and look

on how the athletes were made into heroes and

report how difficult it was to cross borders

to maintain friendships.

 

Further information:

Freedom rights in elite sport

Discussion round with the Olympic champion

in shot put Udo Beyer and Ilona Longo (born Slupaniek)

and the discus thrower and Olympian Alwin Wagner.

Originally, the director of the film "Individual

fighter” Sandra Kaudelka to take part in the discussion. she

had to cancel their participation at short notice.

 

Time: Saturday, December 4th, 2021, 8 p.m

Location: Online

Access link: The access link is on the homepage of the

state representative: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/04-12-freiheitsrechte-im-

elite sport/

 

Further

information

to the

exhibition

and

the

events

stand

on

the home page

of

State representative:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-

event-2021-600/

The exhibition and the accompanying events pay tribute

the successes of partly forgotten sports heroes and

questions the way they are remembered.

At the same time, the LfDI acts as a supervisory authority that advocates for

makes the concerns of freedom and civil rights strong, with

of domestic German sports history, personal rights

of competitive athletes and current developments in

sports area apart. The state representative goes

Ask how much freedom top athletes give up

need to follow their passion.

 

