1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00223/2020

938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00223/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity, GRANJA AVENTURA, S.L. with CIF.: B65841603;
owner of the website, ***URL.1, (hereinafter, "the claimed entity"), by virtue of
complaint filed by D. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the claimant"), and having as
base the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 01/03/20, you have entered this Agency, filed a complaint
by the claimant in which he indicated, among others, the following:

“The page ***URL.1 has an obsolete Privacy Policy, which does not comply with
with the information obligation imposed by the LOPDGDD of the year 2018 and by the
GDPREU. At the same time, your contact form does not force you to accept the policy
of privacy - that is, to give consent for the processing of data - by
time that a pre-marked box appears to subscribe to a newsletter, in clear
contravention of current regulations. Copies of the main page, the
contact form and the privacy policy (which is part of the Legal Notice and
which is not accessible separately).

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 02/07/20, an informative request is addressed to
the claimed entity.

THIRD
 
Agency, in which, among others, it indicates:

 : On 03/06/20, the entity claimed, submits a written document to this

“The claimant states that the website ***URL.1 could be violating art.
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, General Data Protection (RGPD) by not
have it with adequate Privacy Policies where it is provided to the
user clear and complete information about the processing of their personal data and
the rights that assist you. Reviewed this fact by the systems area, it has been
concluded that the web page visited by the complainant was in a state of
provisionally, having determined the need to implement a new
corporate website in this entity. When the complainant visited the page, the
entity GRANJA AVENTURA S.L. was finalizing design details and
projection of the new web page, under the same domain, adapted to the
provisions of the regulations, specifically, the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
and Organic Law 3/2018 of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights. This entity has commissioned the drafting and review
of the Privacy Policies to a Consultancy specialized in Data Protection,
with which the texts have been worked together. For the design and writing of the
new Privacy Policy, the Decalogue has been taken into account in order to
the adaptation to the RGPD of the internet privacy policies published by this
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

Control Authority. The current content of the Privacy Policy is as follows: •
Identification of the Data Controller and contact details. •
Exact determination of the purpose of the treatment and the legal basis. • Within
conservation of personal data. • The recipients of the personal data. •
The rights that attend the interested parties. • The possibility of presenting a
claim before this Control Authority.

Additional training actions on data protection have been planned
personal, through online platforms, aimed at the global staff
structure of the organization, especially the systems personnel, focused on
following content: - Basic notions - The duty to inform - Responsible for
Treatment and Treatment Manager - Rights of the interested parties - Measures of
physical security

-This entity has sent a written communication to all workers,
reminding them that they must notify the Data Controller of any use or
purpose that is intended with the personal data responsibility of this. Between the
that includes the data collected through the website.

With this communication, this entity intends to keep updated the Policies of
Privacy and avoid unauthorized processing of personal data.
 
As a result of the incident that occurred with the website, comprehensive audits will be scheduled
periodically, which will be carried out by a consultancy specialized in Data Protection, to
supervise the correct implementation of the data protection regime established by
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Organic Law 3/2018 of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights. Through these
audits, it will be possible to verify the regulatory compliance of each department of
this entity, especially the digital environment.
 
The website ***URL.1 has been adapted and the first audit has been scheduled
to supervise the due fulfillment of all the departments of the
entity".
 
FOURTH: On 07/19/20, this Agency consulted the website
in question, checking the following aspects of your privacy policy:

When accessing the main page of the website ***URL.1, it is verified that there is a
section, with the title: "LEGAL", at the bottom of the page, which contains two
links, one to the "Privacy Policy" and another to "Legal Notice".

A).- About the “Privacy Policy”:

Through the link ***LINK.1, you are redirected to a page that contains information on:
who is responsible for processing your data; the identification data of the
data controller; what is the legal basis for data processing; the
purposes of data processing; it is reported that they will not be carried out
automated evaluations, nor user profiles will be created; the time of
conservation of personal data; to which recipients the data will be communicated;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

what are the rights of users who provide their data; the right to
file a claim with the AEPD.

Regarding the purposes for which they collect personal data, it is indicated:

“On this website, only data provided by Users is processed. The data that
can be collected from the user will be treated with the purposes of: Management of your
contact information to solve doubts or suggestions, being the legal basis your
consent. Management of your data for the purchase of tickets, being the basis
consent, as well as the execution of a pre-contractual relationship.
Send you, where appropriate, notifications that may be of interest to you, being the legal basis
Your consent".

B).- About the information contained in the "Legal Notice":

Through the link ***LINK.1, you are redirected to a page that contains information
on the following aspects:

“GRANJA AVENTURA S.L., holder of CIF B65841603, acts as owner,
promoter and content manager of this website. The entity informs the
Users who comply with current data protection regulations, and with a
special, with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
to the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data and for which
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), the Law
Organic 3/2018 of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights and with the Law of the Society of Information Services and
Electronic Commerce, Law 34/2002, of July 11.

Company Name or Name of the Company CIF.- GRANJA AVENTURA S.L. B65841603
Address: ***ADDRESS.1
City: Postal Code: ***POBLACIÓN.1 - ***C.P.1.

C).- Contact Page, (“Join the Club”):

To register as a user of the page, there is a box that must be checked
before sending the form with the name and email, to give the
consent: “_ I accept the Privacy Policy“.

If you click on the link, "privacy policy", you will be redirected to the page
***LINK.1, listed above.

FIFTH: On 08/12/20, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
the established powers, for violation of article 7 of the RGPD, punishable
Under the provisions of art. 83 of the aforementioned rule, regarding the collection of the
consent of the partners, with an initial sanction of “warning”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

SIXTH: Notified of the initiation of the file on 08/23/20, as of today, no
There is evidence that no response has been given to the initiation of the file within, of the
period granted for this, for the appropriate legal purposes by the claimed entity.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1.- It has been found that, in the privacy policy of the website
reported, there are three purposes of processing based on consent,
such as: the management of contact data to resolve doubts or suggestions; the
management of the data for the purchase of tickets and the management of the data to send,
in his case, notifications, but there is no possibility for the user to give his
consent individually to each of them separately, there being only one
generic acceptance box “_ I accept the Privacy Policy“, when you want to
sign up as a club member.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

Yo

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD a vision of the denounced action that has been
reflected in the facts declared proven above reported.

II

Of the actions carried out, in relation to the consent given by the user,
has been able to verify that there are three purposes of the treatment based on the
consent, but there is no possibility for the user to give consent
individually to each one of them separately, existing only one box of
generic acceptance for the three purposes.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant, for
violation of article 7 of the RGPD, when collecting consent
through a single and generic action for the three purposes for which they are collected
the personal data of users.

For its part, article 72.1.c) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, "Breach of the requirements of article 7 of the RGPD".

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

However, Article 58.2) of the RGPD provides that: "Each supervisory authority
will have all the following corrective powers indicated below: b)
sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation; (...); i) impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83,
in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the
circumstances of each particular case, therefore, the sanction that could
to correspond would be a warning, without prejudice to what results from the instruction
of this file.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 7 of the RGPD,
Allows you to set a “Warning” sanction.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

RESOLVE

NOTICE: to the entity, GRANJA AVENTURA, S.L. with CIF.: B65841603; title of
the web page, ***URL.1 for the infringement of article 7 of the RGPD in what
regarding the collection of user consent.

REQUEST: to the entity GRANJA AVENTURA, S.L. so that, within a month,
counting from the notification of this resolution, adapt the web page of your
ownership to include a mechanism that allows collecting the consent of the
users, for each of the purposes, to which their data will be used.

NOTIFY: this resolution to the entity GRANJA AVENTURA, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

