 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  19/2021  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Hungary regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

Adopted 

Adopted on 1 June 2021 

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ................................ 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

PREFIX .............................................................................................................................. 6 

2.2.2 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 6 

2.2.3 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ............................................................ 7 

2.2.4 

RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................. 7 

2.2.5 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS................................................................................................ 8 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................... 8 

Final Remarks .................................................................................................................................. 9 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The  main  role  of  the  Board  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  Regulation  2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its  opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism,  this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority,  the  supervisory  authority  should  establish  accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 

 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted 

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should  be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision  of  the  Chair,  this  period  may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The  Hungarian  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “HU  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 06 April 2021. The 
HU national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify using 
GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the HU SA, once they are approved by the HU SA, following an opinion from 
the Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the HU SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation. 

3. 

This assessment of HU SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 

 

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

Adopted 

4 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore it  will not make reference to the text of  the related document in this Opinion.  As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the HU 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the HU SA to take further action.  

This  opinion  does  not  reflect  upon  items  submitted  by the  HU  SA,  which  are  outside  the  scope  of 
article  43  (2)  GDPR,  such  as  references  to  national  legislation.  The  Board  nevertheless  notes  that 
national legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

9. 

Adopted 

5 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board  shall  issue  an  opinion  where  a  supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX  

10. 

11. 

12. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

2.2.2  GENERAL REMARKS 

The  Board  notes  that  the  requirements  should  be  drafted  in  a  prescriptive  manner.  Thus,  the 
requirements should avoid the word “should” and rather use “shall” or “must”. The EDPB encourages 
the  HU  SA  to  make  the  necessary  changes  in  this  regard  (e.g.  in  section  7.4,  2nd,  5th  and  6th 
paragraphs;  section  7.6,  1st  paragraph;  section  7.7,  3rd  paragraph;  section  7.11,  1st  paragraph; 
sections 7.12, 7.13 and 9.3.3) 

In  addition,  the  Board  encourages  the  HU  SA  to  use  consistent  wording  and  ensure  that  the 
requirements are drafted in a way that ensure clarity. In this regard, the Board notes that, for example, 
paragraph 3 of section 4.1.2 could refer to the powers of the NAIH “which is competent” in line with 
the GDPR, section 7.1.1 could refer to the additional requirements “of the NAIH”; section 4.2 should 
refer  to  “Regulation”  765/2008/EC.  In  addition,  for  the  sake  of  clarity,  the  references  to  “the 
competent SA” should be replaced by “HU SA” or “the NAIH” in section 9.3.3. 

Adopted 

6 

2.2.3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

13.  With regard to section 4.1.1 of the HU SA’s draft accreditation requirements, and in particular, the last 
sentence of the second paragraph, the Board considers that the reference to the subject matter of 
the ToE is not entirely correct in this case, since the requirement is related to the accreditation of the 
certification bodies and not to their certification activities. Therefore, the Board encourages the HU 
SA to delete the said reference in the last part of the requirement.  

14.  Regarding section 4.1.2, point 7, the EDPB notes that the HU SA’s draft accreditation requirements 
establish that the certification agreement shall allow the certification body to “disclose all information 
necessary to the EDPB and NAIH for granting certification”. Whereas the EDPB welcome the explicit 
reference to the HU SA, which provides clarity, the reference to the EDPB seems less accurate, given 
that article 42(8) GDPR does not specify the manner in which the EDPB will collate the information. 
Thus, the EDPB considers that the wording of the Annex, which provide for more flexibility, is more 
appropriate and encourages the HU SA to redraft the requirements in this line.  

15.  With regard to section 4.2 (“Management of impartiality”), the Board encourages the HU SA to provide 
examples of situations where a certification body has no relevant connection with the customer it 
assesses.  For  example,  the  certification  body  should  not  belong  to  the  same  company  group  nor 
should be controlled in any way by the customer it assesses. 

2.2.4  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

16.  Concerning certification body personnel (section 6.1), the Board notes that the requirements follow 
the  Annex.  In  this  respect,  the  Board  is  of  the  Opinion  that,  with  regard  to  the  expertise  of  the 
certification  body,  the  emphasis  should  be  put  on  the  different  type  of  substantive  expertise  and 
experience. Specifically, the Board considers that the competence requirements for evaluators and 
decision-makers should be tailored taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In the 
Board’s opinion, evaluators should have a more specialist expertise and professional experience in 
technical  procedures  (e.g.  audits  and  certifications),  whereas  decision-makers  should  have  a  more 
general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data protection. On this respect, 
the Board considers that the requirements for personnel with technical expertise and for personnel 
with  legal  expertise  should  be  more  aligned,  so  as  to  avoid  the  situation  in  which  personnel  with 
technical expertise have significantly less expertise than personnel with legal expertise. Instead, the 
focus should be made on the differences between evaluators and decision-makers in terms of their 
expertise and experience. Considering this, the Board encourages the HU SA to redraft this section 
taking  into  account  the  different  substantive  knowledge  and/or  experience  requirements  for 
evaluators and decision-makers. 

17.  With regard to the legal personnel in charge of certification decisions, the Board notes that the HU 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements determine a minimum of five years of professional experience 
in data protection law. In this regard, the Annex refers to “significant” professional experience, which 
encompasses not only quantitative elements but also qualitative ones. Thus, in order to ensure clarity, 
the Board encourages the HU SA to clarify that the required years of professional experience have to 
be relevant for the tasks they will perform.  

Adopted 

7 

2.2.5  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

18. 

19. 

20. 

Section 7.1 par. 2 of the HU SA’s draft accreditation requirements establishes the obligation to notify 
the HU SA before a certification body starts operating an approved European Data Protection Seal in 
a new Member State from a  satellite office. The EDPB  notes that this obligation is towards all the 
competent supervisory authorities and recommends the HU SA to amend the draft accordingly. 

Furthermore, the Board notes that the use of external experts contracted by the certification body is 
foreseen  in  the  HU  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements.  The  Board  considers  that  the  draft 
accreditation  requirements  should  explicitly  state  that  the  certification  body  will  retain  the 
responsibility  for  the  decision-making,  even  when  it  uses  external  experts.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends the HU SA to amend the draft accordingly. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  second  paragraph  of  section  7.6  of  the  HU  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements (“certification decision”) includes the obligation to submit the draft approval to the HU 
SA, prior to issuing or renewing certification. Based on the explanations provided by the HU SA, the 
Board understand that the intention of this requirement is to increase transparency and, in case that 
the HU SA decides, on the basis of the information, to start an investigation, it will not suspend the 
certification process. The Board encourages the HU SA to include a clarification in that sense. 

21.  With regard to last paragraph of section 7.6 (“Certification decision”), the Board encourages to clarify 
that the investigations or procedure referred which may prevent certification being issued are those 
related to the target of evaluation or the scope of the certification.  

22. 

Finally, with regard to section 7.9 (“Surveillance”), the EDPB notes that the draft requirements do not 
establish  a  specific  period  for  the  monitoring.  In  this  regard,  the  Board  considers  that,  when 
determining the periodicity of the surveillance, the risk associated with the processing should be taken 
into account. Even in those cases where a specific frequency for the monitoring is determined, a risk-
based approach is necessary to assess whether a more frequent monitoring is needed. Thus, the EDPB 
encourages the HU SA to introduce a risk-based approach in order to determine the frequency of the 
surveillance.  This  does  not  prevent  the  HU  SA  to  also  include  minimum  deadlines  for  monitoring, 
combined with a risk-based approach.    

 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

23. 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  Hungarian  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an 
inconsistent application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to 
be made: 

24.  Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the HU SA: 

1)  amend section 7.1, par. 2 in order to refer to all the competent supervisory authorities.  

2)  explicitly state that the certification body will retain the responsibility for the decision-

making, even when it uses external experts 

 

Adopted 

8 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

25. 

This opinion is addressed to the Hungarian Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

26.  According  to  Article  64  (7)  and  (8)  GDPR,  the  HU  SA  shall  communicate  to  the Chair  by  electronic 
means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow 
the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow 
this opinion, in whole or in part.  

27. 

The HU SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

9 

