



SEE ALSO NEWSLETTER OF MARCH 29, 2021

[doc. web no. 9562852]
Injunction order against Rome Capital - 11 February 2021
Register of measures
no. 49 of 11 February 2021
THE GUARANTOR FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
IN today's meeting, which was attended by prof. Pasquale Stanzione, president, prof.ssa Ginevra Cerrina Feroni, vice president, dr. Agostino Ghiglia and the lawyer Guido Scorza, components, and the cons. Fabio Mattei, general secretary;
HAVING REGARD TO Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, as well as on the free circulation of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 /CE, "General Data Protection Regulation" (hereinafter "Regulation");
HAVING REGARD TO Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196, "Code regarding the protection of personal data", as amended by Legislative Decree 10 August 2018, n. 101, containing provisions for the adaptation of the national legal system to the Regulation (hereinafter the "Code");
CONSIDERING the Regulation n. 1/2019 concerning internal procedures having external relevance, aimed at carrying out the tasks and exercising the powers delegated to the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, approved with resolution no. 98 of 4 April 2019, published in the Official Gazette no. 106 of 8 May 2019 and in www.gpdp.it, doc. web no. 9107633 (hereinafter "Regulation of the Guarantor n. 1/2019");
HAVING REGARD to the documentation in the deeds;
GIVEN the observations of the Office formulated by the Secretary General pursuant to art. 15 of the Regulation of the Guarantor n. 1/2000 on the organization and functioning of the office of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, in www.gpdp.it, doc. web no. 1098801; SPEAKER Prof. Geneva Cerrina Feroni;
WHEREAS
1. Premise.
From some press reports, published in December 2018, and from a report presented to the Authority, it was learned that the permits for access and parking in the limited traffic areas ("Z.T.L.") of Rome Capital, to be displayed on vehicles, show on the title page a so-called QR code, which allows anyone, through the use of a generic application for mobile devices (mobile app) capable of decoding its content, to access personal data relating to the holder of the Z.T.L. or its user.
2. The preliminary investigation.
In response to the Office's request for information, Roma Capitale provided a reply (note prot. n. XX of the XX), through the designated data controller, Roma Servizi per la Mobilità S.r.l. (hereinafter, "Roma Servizi").
Specifically, the legal representative of Roma Servizi represented, among other things, that:
“carries out assistance and support activities on behalf of Roma Capitale in the management of mobility services. In particular and to the extent of interest, Roma Capitale [it] has entrusted it on its own [...] behalf with carrying out the activities related to the issue and renewal of permits for access, circulation and parking in restricted traffic areas [... ], the basic discipline of which is contained in the resolution of the City Council of Rome Capital n. XX of the XX”;
“in the activities of issuing Z.T.L. permits those consisting in the printing and issuing of the related stamps are included”;
"a new type of mark in paper format bearing a QR code containing the identification information of the authorization", as well as "the related model", were adopted with executive decisions nos. XX and XX of the XX and XX of the Mobility and Transport Department of Rome Capital, and "the current format has been operational since the XX";
the information reported "in the clear" (i.e. not encoded in the QR code) on the mark, intended to be displayed, concerns: the type of authorization (e.g. access, parking, unloading of goods, etc.), the vehicle number plate, the number of the permit and the temporal validity. The QR code, on the other hand, shows: the category of the applicant (e.g. domiciled, goods distributor, parking space owner, etc.), the company or institutional reason or denomination (in the case of a vehicle belonging to a legal person) or the name and surname (in the case of a natural person) of the permit holder, as well as the name and surname of the user of the same;
"all the information shown on the side of the sign intended to be displayed, some of which is visible only with a QR code, appears to be necessary to allow the road activities carried out by the competent authorities aimed at checking that the permits are used in compliance with DGC XX" .
From the preliminary official investigations it has been verified that the QR codes, reported in the Z.T.L. – ten of which were produced by Roma Servizi during the investigation, with note prot. no. XX of XX – encode web addresses in URL format like https://permessiweb.atac.roma.it/VerifyPermit.aspx?PID=nnn&Source=xyz, which include two parameters: the first (called "PID" ), identifier of the single permit, consisting of a numerical sequence, the second (called "Source"), which indicates the possible temporary validity of the permit.
Therefore, it was ascertained that with a generic mobile app, capable of decoding the content of the aforementioned QR codes, anyone could have connected to the web address of the Z.T.L. permit verification service, thus accessing the data relating to the single permit, including which: the company or institutional name (e.g. Rome Police Headquarters, elementary school) or the name and surname (in the case of a natural person) of the permit holder, the name and surname of the user of the permit, the category of the applicant (e.g. craftsman, night worker), as well as the license plate of the authorized vehicle.
It was also verified that, by modifying the value of the parameter called "PID" (simply increasing or decreasing the numerical identifier of the permit) within the web address of the verification service, it was also possible to view the personal data relating to other Z.T.L. permits, even if the corresponding QR code is not available. This happened because the online permit verification service Z.T.L. it was freely accessible, not being protected by any authentication procedure.
Based on the technical checks carried out by the Office, the aforementioned Z.T.L. was provided through network resources (domain names and IP networks) referable to Atac S.p.A. – Rome Capital Mobility Company (hereinafter, “Atac”).
In response to a further request for information (note prot. n. XX of the XX), Atac has indeed confirmed that it performs a hosting service on behalf of Roma Servizi to which it supplies hardware and "DB and connectivity services" on the basis of a "service contract" entered into on 15 January 2010, following the establishment of Roma Servizi through the sale of the business unit of Atac itself. This service, necessary to ensure the continuity of production and administrative processes for the newly established Roma Servizi, would be residual, as Roma Servizi is equipping itself with its own IT system through which to manage the activities and services envisaged by the service contract with Rome capital city.
In any case, the preliminary investigation revealed that Roma Capitale had not identified Atac as the data controller.
In relation to these violations, the notification provided for by art. 166, paragraph 5, of the Code, of the violation of the articles 5, 6, 28 and 32 of the Regulation, as well as 2-ter of the Code, communicating the start of the procedure for the adoption of the provisions pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, of the Regulation, inviting the entity to send written defenses or documents (art. 166, paragraphs 6 and 7, of the Code; as well as art. 18, paragraph 1, of law n. 689 of 24 November 1981).
With the note prot. no. XX of the XX, Roma Capitale sent its defense writings to the Guarantor in relation to the notified violations, declaring, among other things, that:
has "authorized in 2016 the use of the mark on the statement by Roma Servizi per la Mobilità of the need to use it "in order to allow roadside inspection personnel to carry out checks in real time, improving the quality levels of checks" […]”;
"the authorization given by Roma Capitale is not incorrect but the use made of this authorization by Roma Servizi per la Mobilità which did not use instruments designed to prevent anyone from reading the aforementioned data with a simple app";
"is not aware [...] of major violations that have caused damage to citizens unaware of the consultation of personal data, no grievance and/or complaint has been filed with the protocol and, for this reason, [...] believes that there has not been a significant violation of personal data, to be attributed to the lack of equipment suitable for data collection by Roma Agenzia per la Mobilità”;
"from 2 April 2019 the reading of the QR code on the stamps has been blocked [...]", pending a definitive solution that responds to the findings expressed by the Authority;
"in the meeting convened [...] on 18 April c.a. precise directives have been given [to Roma Servizi] to adapt the entire personal data processing system to the indications provided by the Guarantor”;
"Roma Capitale authorized with note QG 15700/2019 the adoption of a structural change to the process of querying permits with QRCode authorizing access and viewing of permit information exclusively to subjects already authorized by RSM, proposed by RSM [… ]".
On 20 May 2019, the hearing requested by Roma Capitale pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 6, of the Code, on the occasion of which it was represented that "Roma Servizi per la Mobilità has always reaffirmed [...] the functionality of the marks equipped with QR Codes for control by the investigating agents and that the technical measures adopted at the time were compliant with current legislation, [noting] the unsuitability of the same only following what emerged at the time of the Guarantor's objections".
Atac also held a hearing on the same date, during which the company, reiterating what has already been specified in the defence, represented, with reference to the processing in question, that it provides Roma Servizi exclusively with a hosting and maintenance of database and connectivity and that does not have access to the personal data processed in the servers made available.
3. Outcome of the preliminary investigation.
Pursuant to the Regulation, the processing of personal data carried out by public subjects (such as Roma Capitale) is lawful only if necessary «to fulfill a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject» or «for the execution of a task of interest public or connected to the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller" (Article 6, paragraph 1, letters c) and e), of the Regulation; see already art. 18, paragraph 2, of the previous Code).
Furthermore, it is envisaged that "Member States may maintain [...] more specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of the [...] regulation with regard to treatment, in accordance with paragraph 1, letters c) and e), determining with greater precision specific requirements for the treatment and other measures aimed at guaranteeing a lawful and correct treatment [...]", with the consequence that, in the present case, the provision contained in the art. 2-ter, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Code, pursuant to which «the dissemination and communication of personal data, processed for the execution of a task of public interest or connected to the exercise of public powers, to subjects who intend treat them for other purposes are allowed only if provided for" by a law or, in the cases provided for by law, a regulation (see also articles 19, paragraph 3, and 74 of the previous Code).
In any case, the data controller is required to comply with the principles of data protection, including those of "lawfulness, correctness and transparency", of "data minimization" and of "integrity and confidentiality", on the basis of which the personal data must be "processed in a lawful, correct and transparent manner in relation to the data subject", be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed" and be "processed in a manner which ensures adequate security of personal data, including protection, through appropriate technical and organizational measures, from unauthorized processing" (Article 5, paragraph 1, letter a), c) and f), of the Regulation; see art. 11, paragraph 1, lett. d), of the previous Code).
Pursuant to art. 28 of the Regulation, the owner can also entrust a treatment to data controllers who present sufficient guarantees with regard to the implementation of technical and organizational measures suitable to guarantee that the treatment complies with the regulations on the protection of personal data (cf. art. 29 of the previous Code). In this case, "the processing by a manager is governed by a contract or other legal act pursuant to Union or Member State law, which binds the manager to the owner and which stipulates the disciplined matter and the duration of the treatment, the nature and purpose of the treatment, the type of personal data and the categories of interested parties, the obligations and rights of the owner" (Article 28, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Regulation).
As regards the security of the treatment, the art. 32 of the Regulation establishes that "taking into account the state of the art and the costs of implementation, as well as the nature, object of the context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risk of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller and the data processor implement adequate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk" and that "in assessing the adequate level of security, particular account is taken of the risks presented by the treatment which derive in particular [...] from the unauthorized disclosure or from the access, in an accidental or illegal way, to the personal data transmitted, stored or in any case processed" (cf. already articles 31 and following of the previous Code).
From the checks carried out on the basis of the elements acquired, also through the documentation sent by the bodies involved, as well as from the subsequent assessments, the Office ascertained the non-compliance - with regard to both the previous legislation (or the Code, in the text prior to the amendments made by Legislative Decree 10 August 2018, No. 101), and the current regulations on data protection - of the processing in question, carried out starting from 1 December 2016 and continued until April 2019.
3.1 The dissemination of personal data
As for the disputed profiles in particular, it is, first of all, ascertained that the personal data relating to the holders and users of the Z.T.L. displayed on the vehicles, were made accessible to an indeterminate audience of third parties - who could read the QR codes shown in the permits through a generic mobile app, available on common smartphones capable of decoding the content - thus giving rise to a "dissemination" of personal data (see art. 2-ter, paragraph 4, letter b) of the Code).
It was also verified that by accessing the web address of the permit verification service and modifying the value of the "PID" parameter within it, it was possible to view the personal data relating to Z.T.L. permits. of subjects to whom the permit had been issued, even though the corresponding QR code shown in the permit issued to them was not available.
From the aforesaid assessment it therefore emerged that the dissemination of the aforesaid personal data, starting from 1 December 2016 (the date from which the paper format bearing a QR code and the relative online service of verification), took place in a manner that does not comply with the basic principles of data protection, as well as in the absence of a suitable regulatory prerequisite, in violation of articles 5 and 6 of the Regulation and of the art. 2-ter of the Code.
3.2 Failure to regulate the relationship with the hosting service provider
Furthermore, taking into account the statements made, also during the hearings, it is noted that, given the definition of "processing" (Article 4, paragraph 1, no. 2), of the Regulation), Atac, which provided the hosting and maintenance of databases and connectivity, has processed "personal data" (art. 4, paragraph 1, n. 1), of the Regulation), recording and storing it, the transmission of which is implicit in the use of telematic communication protocols, such as the IP address of the device used by the user, the date and time of the connection and the IP address of the server hosting the service in question. Furthermore, while not directly accessing the personal data processed as part of this service, as a hosting service provider, Atac kept such data on its own technological infrastructure, ensuring certain levels of service in terms of system availability and making available to the customer a set of tools to manage and monitor the service.
On the basis of the elements reported above, it must therefore be considered that the operations described above give rise to the processing of personal data by Atac (see "Guidelines 7/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR", adopted by the Committee for data protection on 2 September 2020, in the version submitted to public consultation, in particular, paragraph 2.1.4, point 38, in the part where the example relating to "hosting services" is shown), and that, therefore, the use by Roma Capitale of the services offered by Atac – in the absence of a contract or other legal act governing the processing of personal data by Atac, as data controller – occurred in violation of art. 28 of the Regulation.
3.3 The security of the treatment
Considering that there is, in general, the obligation of the data controller, pursuant to art. 24 of the Regulation, to adopt adequate technical and organizational measures so that the treatment complies with the regulations on the protection of personal data, also giving precise and detailed instructions, in this sense, to the data controller, it is noted, with regard to the case in point, the lack of configuration of procedures, capable of limiting access to the personal data of users of Z.T.L. only to personnel actually authorized to process necessary for the purpose of public interest functional to checking the validity of permits, with the consequent possibility that personal data could be freely accessed by anyone in possession of a smartphone equipped with a generic mobile app capable to decode QR codes.
By accessing the web address of the permit verification service and changing the value of the "PID" parameter within it, it was also possible to view the personal data relating to Z.T.L. permits. of subjects to whom the permit had been issued, even if the corresponding QR code shown in the permit issued to them was not available. In both cases, the improper configuration of the service, also the result of the lack of instructions to the data controller, has led to the disclosure of personal data described above.
In the light of the above, Roma Capitale has made itself responsible for the failure to adopt, in a manner that does not comply with the principle of "integrity and confidentiality", technical and organizational measures capable of guaranteeing a level of security adequate to the risks presented by the processing, creating the premises for the occurrence of the illicit disclosure of personal data, in violation of articles 5, par. 1, lit. f), and 32 of the Regulation (see on this point, albeit with regard to a different context, provision n. 160 of 17 September 2020, web doc. n. 9461168, par. 3.4).
4. Conclusions.
In the light of the assessments referred to above, it should be noted that the statements made by the data controller in the defense writings ˗ for the truthfulness of which one may be called upon to answer pursuant to art. 168 of the Code ˗ although worthy of consideration, do not allow the findings notified by the Office to be overcome with the act of initiation of the proceeding and are insufficient to allow the dismissal of the present proceeding, since none of the cases envisaged by the art. 11 of the Regulation of the Guarantor n. 1/2019.
For the determination of the applicable rule, in terms of time, the principle of legality pursuant to art. 1, paragraph 2, of the law no. 689/1981, pursuant to which the laws that provide for administrative sanctions are applied only in the cases and within the times considered in them". This determines the obligation to take into consideration the provisions in force at the time of the committed violation, which in the case in question - given the permanent nature of the disputed offense - must be identified in the act of cessation of the unlawful conduct, which occurred after 25 May 2018, date on which the Regulation became applicable. In fact, the preliminary investigation documents revealed that the unlawful processing lasted until April 2019.
The preliminary assessments of the Office are therefore confirmed and the illegality of the processing of personal data carried out by Roma Capitale is noted, as it took place in a manner that does not comply with the general principles of processing, in the absence of an appropriate legal basis, as well as in the absence of suitable technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security adequate to the risk presented by the treatment, in violation of the articles 5, 6, 28 and 32 of the Regulation, as well as 2-ter of the Code.
The violation of the aforementioned provisions renders the administrative sanction applicable pursuant to articles 58, par. 2, lit. i), and 83, par. 4 and 5, of the same Regulation, as also referred to by art. 166, paragraph 2, of the Code.
5. Corrective measures (Article 58, paragraph 2, letter d), of the Regulation).
Taking note of what emerged during the hearing and of the measures already introduced, taking into account the fact that the Z.T.L. was exposed on the public network and the consequent risks presented by the treatment, which derive in particular from the possibility of access, accidentally or illegally, to the personal data processed, it is necessary to order Roma Capitale, pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, lit. d), of the Regulation, to modify, within and no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of this provision, the computer authentication system used in the context of the Z.T.L. permit verification service, in compliance with art. 32 of the Regulation, adopting, in agreement with the data controller, the technical and organizational measures indicated below or other similar measures, also taking into account any initiatives undertaken in this regard over time, which in any case guarantee an adequate level of security the risks presented by the treatment concerning:
a) the ability to ensure the confidentiality of the data processed, making sure that the passwords relating to the users of the authorized subjects are no less than eight characters long and are subjected to an automatic quality control that prevents the use of "weak" passwords " and that the same passwords are changed at least on first use;
b) the ability to effectively counter brute force cyber attacks on the online authentication system, also by introducing limitations on the number of unsuccessful authentication attempts.
6. Adoption of the injunction order for the application of the pecuniary administrative sanction and accessory sanctions (articles 58, paragraph 2, letter i), and 83 of the Regulation; art. 166, paragraph 7, of the Code).
The Guarantor, pursuant to articles 58, par. 2, lit. i), and 83 of the Regulation as well as art. 166 of the Code, has the power to "impose a pecuniary administrative sanction pursuant to article 83, in addition to the [other] [corrective] measures referred to in this paragraph, or instead of such measures, according to the circumstances of each single case" and, in this context, "the Board [of the Guarantor] adopts the injunction order, with which it also orders the application of the ancillary administrative sanction of its publication, in whole or in part, on the website of the Guarantor pursuant to article 166, paragraph 7, of the Code" (art. 16, paragraph 1, of the Guarantor's Regulation no. 1/2019).
In this regard, taking into account the art. 83, par. 3, of the Regulation, in the present case - also considering the reference contained in art. 166, paragraph 2, of the Code – the violation of the aforementioned provisions is subject to the application of the same pecuniary administrative sanction provided for by art. 83, par. 5, of the Regulation.
The aforementioned pecuniary administrative sanction imposed, according to the circumstances of each individual case, must be determined in the amount, taking into due account the elements provided for by art. 83, par. 2, of the Regulation.
In relation to the aforementioned elements, the extended period of time in which the violation took place was assessed, as well as the fact that it affected a large number of interested parties. Furthermore, there are previous violations of the pertinent Regulations committed by Roma Capitale.
On the other hand, it was taken into account that, although the violation in question was brought to the attention of the Authority through various press reports published in December 2018 and through a subsequent report, Roma Capitale took steps to remedy the violation and mitigate the possible negative effects, introducing some initial technical and organizational measures pursuant to art. 32 of the Regulation, having been, in any case, considered the non-malicious behavior of the violation. The violations detected by the Authority against Roma Capitale in the context of previous proceedings were also taken into account (provision no. 280 of 17 December 2020 and provision no. 48 of 11 February 2021).
Based on the aforementioned elements, evaluated as a whole, it is decided to determine the amount of the pecuniary sanction, in the amount of 350,000.00 (three hundred and fifty thousand) euros for the violation of articles 5, 6, 28 and 32 of the Regulation, as well as 2-ter of the Code, as a pecuniary administrative sanction deemed effective, proportionate and dissuasive pursuant to art. 83, par. 1, of the same Regulation.
In relation to the specific circumstances of the present case, it is also believed - also in consideration of the high number of interested parties involved in the unlawful dissemination, which lasted for more than a year - that the accessory sanction of publication on the website of the Guarantor of this provision, provided for by art. 166, paragraph 7, of the Code and art. 16, paragraph 1, of the Guarantor Regulation n. 1/2019.
Finally, it is believed that the conditions set forth in art. 17 of Regulation no. 1/2019.
ALL THIS CONSIDERING THE GUARANTOR
notes the illegality of the processing carried out by Roma Capitale for the violation of the articles 5, 6, 28 and 32 of the Regulation, as well as 2-ter of the Code, in the terms indicated in the justification;
ORDER
in Rome Capital, in the person of the pro-tempore legal representative, with registered office in Piazza del Campidoglio, n. 1, Rome – Fiscal Code 02438750586 – to pay the sum of 350,000.00 (three hundred and fifty thousand) euros as an administrative fine for the violations referred to in the justification; it is represented that the offender, pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 8, of the Code, has the right to settle the dispute by paying, within 30 days, an amount equal to half of the fine imposed;
ENJOYS
a) to Rome Capital to pay the sum of 350,000.00 (three hundred and fifty thousand) euros - without prejudice to the provisions of the aforementioned art. 166, paragraph 8, of the Code - according to the methods indicated in the attachment, within 30 days of notification of this provision, under penalty of the adoption of the consequent executive acts pursuant to art. 27 of the law no. 689/1981;
b) in Rome, pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, lit. d), of the Regulation, to conform the treatments to the provisions of the Regulation, adopting the corrective measures indicated in paragraph 5 of this provision, within and no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of the same. Failure to comply with an order formulated pursuant to art. 58, par. 2, of the Regulation, is punished with the administrative sanction pursuant to art. 83, par. 6, of the Regulation;
c)  in Rome, pursuant to art. 58, par. 1, lit. a), of the Regulation, and of the art. 157 of the Code, to communicate, by providing adequately documented feedback, within and no later than 30 days from receipt of this provision, the initiatives undertaken to bring processing into line with the provisions of the aforementioned paragraph 5. Failure to respond to a request made pursuant to the 'art. 157 of the Code is punished with an administrative sanction, pursuant to the combined provisions of articles 83, par. 5 of the Regulation and 166 of the Code;
HAS
the publication of this provision on the Guarantor's website, pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 7, of the Code and of the art. 16, paragraph 1, of the Guarantor Regulation n. 1/2019;
the annotation of this provision in the internal register of the Authority, provided for by art. 57, par. 1, lit. u), of the Regulation, of the violations and of the measures adopted in accordance with art. 58, par. 2, of the Regulation.
Pursuant to art. 78 of the Regulation, of the articles 152 of the Code and 10 of Legislative Decree no. 150/2011, against this provision it is possible to lodge an appeal before the ordinary judicial authority, under penalty of inadmissibility, within thirty days from the date of communication of the provision itself or within sixty days if the appellant resides abroad.
Rome, 11 February 2021
PRESIDENT
Station
THE SPEAKER
Cerrina Feroni
THE SECRETARY GENERAL
Matthew

