 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
Opinion  14/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Bulgaria regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 
 

Adopted on 4 July 2022 

 

 

Adopted  
  

1 

Table of contents  

 
 

 
 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 4 
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4 
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements . 4 
 
 
Analysis of the BG SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 5 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 7 
EXPERTISE ........................................................................................................................ 7 
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................... 8 
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING .......................................................................... 8 
COMMUNICATION WITH THE BG SA ............................................................................... 8 
REVIEW MECHANISMS .................................................................................................... 8 
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................................... 9 
FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................... 9 

 

Adopted  
  

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance explaining the accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve a harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term  “accreditation”. However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

Adopted  
  

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The Bulgarian Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “BG SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing 
the accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its 
opinion pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the 
completeness of the file was taken on 28 March 2022.   

  ASSESSMENT 
  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

Adopted  
  

4 

4. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

5. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

6.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

BG SA to take further action.  

7. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the BG SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the BG SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

Taking into account that: 

8. 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

9. 

10. 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

For the sake of consistency and clarity, the Board encourages the BG SA to replace throughout the 
draft accreditation requirements the term “Commission for Personal Data Protection” or “CPDP” with 
the term “Competent Supervisory Authority” in line with the terminology used in the Guidelines. At 
the same time the Board encourages the BG SA to introduce in the draft requirements a definition of 
the term «Competent Supervisory Authority», to be understood as the Commission for Personal Data 
Protection.  

In general, the Board encourages the BG SA to ensure consistency of the wording throughout the text. 
For instance in paragraph 4, chapter I, the term “candidate for accreditation” is introduced instead of 
the accreditation applicant. In  paragraph 9, chapter I, section 1; paragraph 13, chapter I, section 3; 
paragraph   24, chapter II and paragraph 31, chapter IV, the pronouns ‘his/her’, ‘him/her’ are used 
instead of ‘its’ or ‘it’ with regards to the accreditation applicant . 

Adopted  
  

5 

11. 

12. 

14. 

In  addition,  the  Board  encourages  the  BG  SA  to  complete  the  text  with  the  missing  words  where 
needed (e.g. in section 1, chapter I insert the verb “shall” and in the first sentence of paragraph 12, the 
verb “must”).  

The Board observes that the last paragraph on page 1 of the introductory chapter and chapter IX 
(paragraphs 44 to 46) of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements refer to a monitoring body of a 
code of conduct as a tool for international transfers. The Board adopted on 22 February 2022 “the 
Guidelines  04/2021  on  Codes  of  Conduct  as  tools  for  transfers”.  In  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  the 
Guidelines 04/2021 do not add any additional requirements for the accreditation of monitoring bodies 
that monitor codes of conduct intended for international transfers. Rather, the Guidelines 04/2021 
provide  further  specifications  of  the  general  requirements  established  by  the  Guidelines  1/2019 
(Section 12) taking into account the specific context of international transfers2. Therefore,  the Board  
recommends that the BG SA deletes paragraphs 44 and 46 and add paragraph 45 according to which 
“the  code  of  conduct  serving  as  a  data  transfer  mechanism  may  also  include additional specific 
requirements for the monitoring body to be fulfilled at the time of accreditation” in the introductory 
chapter, along with a general reference to the Guidelines 04/2021.   
13.  INDEPENDENCE 
In section 1, chapter I («Legal and decision making procedure») of the BG SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements, the Board encourages the BG SA to clarify the sentence “the nature of the decisions 
taken” included the examples provided under paragraph 7. 

 

15.  As for section 2,  chapter I (« Financial independence») of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements, 
the Board acknowledges that monitoring bodies should be provided with the financial stability and 
necessary resources for the effective and independent performance of their tasks. The means by which 
a monitoring body receives financial support should not adversely affect the independence of its task 
of monitoring compliance of a code. The funding of the monitoring body and the transparency of such 
funding constitute a decisive element to assess the independence of the monitoring body. For this 
reason, the Board recommends that the BG SA replaces “should” by “must” or “shall” and add the 
word ‘independently’ in the first sentence of this section which refers to the need for the monitoring 
body  to  demonstrate  having  “sufficient  financial  resources  to  carry  out  effectively  the  tasks  and 
responsibilities referred to in Article 41(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.   

16.  With regard to the financial independence (paragraph 10), in the opinion of the Board, the monitoring 
body would not be considered financially independent if the rules governing its financial support allow 
a code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop its financial contributions 
to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. Therefore, the Board encourages 
the BG SA to elaborate further this requirement by providing more examples of how the monitoring 
body can provide such evidence. 

17.  With regard to paragraph 11 of section 3 («Legal status and organisational independence»), for the 
sake of clarity the Board encourages the BG SA to redraft the last part of the second sentence stating 
that the monitoring body can act as an internal or external monitoring body vis-à-vis the code owner, 
“with the choice of a particular  approach at the discretion of the code owner”. 

2 See Section4.2 of the EDPB Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers. 

 

Adopted  
  

6 

18.  Regarding paragraph 12 on internal monitoring bodies, the Board recommends the BG SA to add a 
requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific separated budget that is able to 
manage independently. 

19.  With  regard  to  paragraph  14  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  devoted  to  the 
assessment of the structuring of an internal monitoring body, the Board takes note that the second 
sentence at the end contains the phrase “falling within its scope” and for the sake of clarity, encourages 
the BG SA  to clarify that this sentence, by referring expressly  to the scope of the code of conduct. 

20.  With respect to paragraph 15,  addressing the need for the monitoring body to prove, among others, 
that it has “adequate” human resources for the effective performance  its  functions  under  Article  
41(1)  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679, the Board encourages BG SA to consider making a reference to 
“sufficient numbers of sufficiently qualified personnel”.  

21.  As regards paragraph 17 of the BG SA’s accreditation requirements, the Board understands that, read 
together with paragraph 19, it establishes that the monitoring body is always the ultimate responsible 
for the decision-making and for compliance with its obligations, also when it uses subcontractors. The 
Board encourages the BG SA to clarify the wording as above.   

22. 

In addition, in paragraph 17, the Board recommends that the BG SA adds a clear indication that the 
monitoring body shall ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by subcontractors.  

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

23.  With regard to chapter II of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board encourages the 
BG SA to clarify that the phrase “persons employed by it outside its structure” in the first sentence of 
paragraph 23 includes both natural and legal persons such as subcontractors. 

24. 

 As for the second sentence in paragraph 23 which reads ”Any interest that results in an advantage of 
a tangible or intangible nature and/or in the impartial and objective performance of the duties and 
functions referred to in Article 41(1) of the Regulation is private”, the Board notes that the last part of 
this sentence does not adequately convey the meaning of private interests, as a conflict of interest can 
be said to arise when it affects the impartial and objective performance of the monitoring body’s duties 
and functions. Therefore, the Board recommends the BG SA to reformulate the sentence as follows 
”Any interest that results in an advantage of a tangible or intangible nature and/or in affecting the 
impartial and objective performance of the duties and functions referred to in Article 41(1) of the 
Regulation is private”. 
  EXPERTISE 

25.  As  regards  chapter  III,  paragraph  26  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board 
encourages  the  BG  SA  to  add  also  a  reference  to  the  “knowledge”  alongside  the  “appropriate 
expertise” in data protection law with respect to the monitoring body’s personnel performing decision-
making functions. 

26.  Whilst the BG SA has included all the elements from the Guidelines in these requirements devoted to 
the expertise of the monitoring body, the Board is of the opinion that the level of the knowledge and 
expertise  in  data  protection  issues  should  be  aligned  with  the  Guidelines.  Therefore,  the  Board 
encourages the BG SA to align the text with the Guidelines, and require an “in-depth” understanding 
of data protection legislation. 

 

Adopted  
  

7 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

27.  With  regard  to  paragraph  31,  chapter  IV,  of  the  BG  SA’s  accreditation  requirements  («Structures, 
resources and established procedures for the monitoring of a code of conduct»), the Board encourages 
the BG SA to clarify that the human resources of the monitoring body must be appropriate to the 
expected number and size of code members, as well as the complexity or degree of risk of the relevant 
data processing in line with section 73 of the Guidelines.  

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

28.  Regarding  paragraph  36,  chapter  V,  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board 
considers that under section 74 of the Guidelines, the requirements related to the complaint handling 
process  must  contain  the  obligation  of  the  monitoring  body  to  make  its  decisions  or  general 
information thereof, publicly available. Therefore, the Board recommends that the requirement is 
redrafted accordingly. In addition, the Board encourages the BG SA to clarify that information on the 
complaint handling process must be publicly accessible.  

29. 

30. 

  COMMUNICATION WITH THE BG SA 

The Board notes that the BG SA’s accreditation requirements, chapter VI, provides for annual reporting 
by  the  monitoring  body  to  the  BG  SA.  The  Board  encourages  the  BG  SA  to  require  more  regular 
communication means towards the BG SA during the year in paragraph 40. The Board is of the opinion 
that  the  requirements  need  to  address,  in  particular,  such  areas  as:  actions  taken  in  cases  of 
infringement  of  the  code  and  the  reasons  for  taking  them  (Article  41  (4)  GDPR),  periodic  reports, 
reviews or audit findings. The code itself will also outline the communication requirements with the 
BG SA, including appropriate ad hoc and regular reports. In the case of serious infringements of the 
code by code members, which result in serious actions such as suspension or exclusion from the code, 
the BG SA should be informed without undue delay, in line with paragraph 77 of the Guidelines. 

  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

The Board observes that, in paragraph 41 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it is stated 
that need for change or update of the code of conduct “may arise, for example, in the event of a change 
in the applicable legislation or in order to take account of the latest technological developments”. In 
line with the Guidelines, the review mechanisms should take also into account any changes in the 
application and interpretation of the law which have impact upon the data processing carried out by 
the  code  members  or  the  provisions  of  the  code.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  BG  SA  to 
appropriately enrich this requirement. 

31.  With regard to paragraph 42, the Board notes the reference to the review and “ex-post evaluation” of 
the relevant part of the code. In order to avoid misunderstandings, the Board encourages the BG SA 
to delete “ex-post”.  

32. 

The  Board  observes  that  data  security  obligations  may  not  be  included  in  the  scope  of  a  Code  of 
Conduct  (e.g.  a  Code  of  Conduct  may  be  focused  only  on  transparency  toward  data  subjects). 
Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA to add “If applicable” in paragraph 42, second indent, 
concerning  the  information  on  personal  data  breaches  to  be  provided  to  the  code  owner  by  the 
monitoring body in the context of the procedure aimed at reviewing periodically the code of conduct.  

 

Adopted  
  

8 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

33. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the BG Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

34.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

     1. deletes paragraphs 44 and 46 and add paragraph 45, according to which “The code  of  conduct  
serving  as  a  data  transfer  mechanism  may  also  include additional specific requirements for the 
monitoring body to be fulfilled at the time of accreditation” in the introductory chapter, along with a 
general reference to the Guidelines 04/2021. 

35.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1. 

 replaces “should” by “must” or “shall” and add the word “independently” in the first sentence 
of  section  2,  which  refers  to  the  need  for  the  monitoring  body  to  demonstrate  having  “sufficient 
financial resources to carry out effectively the tasks and responsibilities of referred to in Article 41(1) 
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”;  

2. Regarding paragraph 12 on internal monitoring bodies, the Board recommends the BG SA to adds 

a requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific separated budget; 

3.    adds  in  paragraph  17  a  clear  indication  that  the  monitoring  body  shall  ensure  effective 

monitoring of the services provided by subcontractors. 

36.  Regarding conflict of interest  the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1. reformulates the second sentence in paragraph 23 as follows ”Any interest that results in an 
advantage  of  a  tangible  or  intangible  nature  and/or  in  affecting  the  impartial  and  objective 
performance of the duties and functions referred to in Article 41(1) of the Regulation is private”.  

37.  Regarding transparent complaint handling  the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1. redrafts paragraph 36 to include an obligation for the monitoring body to make its decisions or 

general information about them publicly available.  

  FINAL REMARKS 

38. 

This opinion is addressed to the Bulgarian supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

39.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the BG SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

40. 

The BG SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

Adopted  
  

9 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted  
  

10 

