 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Opinion  1/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Croatia  regarding  the  approval  of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Article 41 GDPR 

Adopted on 3 February 2023 

 

 

Adopted  

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 
2 

3 
4 
 

 

2.1 
2.2 
 

Summary of the Facts ................................................................................................................... 4 
Assessment .................................................................................................................................. 4 
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 
Analysis of the HR SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
5 
GENERAL REMARKS ....................................................................................................... 5 
2.2.1 
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS ...................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2 
INPEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................. 7 
2.2.3 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................. 9 
2.2.4 
EXPERTISE ...................................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.5 
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................. 9 
2.2.6 
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING ...................................................................... 10 
2.2.7 
COMMUNICATION WITH THE HR SA ........................................................................... 10 
2.2.8 
CODE REVIEW MECHANISM ........................................................................................ 11 
2.2.9 
LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................. 11 
2.2.10 
Conclusions / Recommendations ............................................................................................... 11 
Final Remarks ............................................................................................................................. 13 

 

Adopted  

 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 

Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct  (hereinafter  “code”)  monitoring  body 
pursuant  to  Article  41  GDPR.  The  aim  of  this  opinion  is  therefore  to  contribute  to  a  harmonised 
approach with regard to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall 
draft and that apply during the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory 
authority.  Even  though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for 
accreditation, it does promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: 
firstly,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring 
bodies based on Article 41 (2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and 
Monitoring  bodies  under  Regulation  2016/679”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  using  the  eight 
requirements as outlined in the guidelines’ accreditation section (section 12); secondly, providing the 
competent  SAs  with  written  guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally, 
requesting the competent SAs to adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an 
harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to Article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes. They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However, 
Article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 
demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in Article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

                                                             

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 

Adopted  

 

3 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies 
that may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes 
of conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context 
of the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though 
the accreditation of a monitoring body applies only for a specific code, a monitoring body may be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code. 

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with 
Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the 
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision 
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of 
the subject matter. 

HAS ADOPTED THE FLLOPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The Croatian Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “HR SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing 
the accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board  requesting its 
opinion pursuant to Art. 64 (1)(c) GDPR, for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the 
completeness of the file was taken on 27 October 2022. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 
All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address Art. 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board’s opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of Art. 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to Art. 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency. 

Adopted  

 

4 

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. Art. 40 (1) GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the 
drawing up of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking 
account of the specific features of the various processing sectors and the specific needs of micro, small 
and medium sized enterprises”. Therefore, the Board recognises that the requirements need to work 
for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing various interests at stake 
and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes. 

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

HR SA to take further action. 

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the HR SA, which are outside the scope of Art. 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 
2.2  Analysis  of  the  HR  SA’s  accreditation  requirements  for  Code  of  Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

Art. 41 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a monitoring body need to address 
in order to be accredited; 

Art. 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities as per Art. 
41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

Art. 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

The Board notes that on 22 February 2022, the “Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for 
transfers”  were  adopted.  These  guidelines  do  not  add  any  additional  requirements  for  the 
accreditation of monitoring bodies that monitor codes of conduct intended for international transfers. 
Rather,  the  guidelines  provide  further  specifications  of  the  general  requirements  established  by 
Guidelines 1/2019 (Section 12) taking into account the specific context of international transfers.2 For 
the sake of clarity, the Board recommends the HR SA to add a reference to the above-mentioned 
guidelines, which are relevant in the context of monitoring codes of conduct intended for international 
transfers, for example by amending the last paragraph of the “Introduction” part as follows: “The 
requirements listed in this document are based on the requirements of Article 41 paragraph (2) of the 
GDPR and the requirements set out in section 12 of the EDPB Guidelines and taking into account 
Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers.” 

                                                             

2 See Section 4.2 of the EDPB Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfer. 

Adopted  

 

5 

11.  As a general remark, the Board recommends that the HR SA amends the definition section in the 
introductory part of the document to align the definitions contained in the document with those of 
section 2 of the Guidelines. The Board is of the opinion that the HR SA may use definitions which 
content is not that of the Guidelines only for terms which are not directly defined in the Guidelines. 

12. 

13. 

The Board also believes that the HR SA shall use the same wording as the GDPR where relevant and 
appropriate. 

In general terms, the Board also encourages that HR SA to use prescriptive language all across the 
document. For example, at section 1, as far as translations are concerned, the HR SA shall say that it 
“will” request a translation instead of “may” request a translation. 

14.  By way of a general encouragement, the HR SA should correct any typos or formatting errors in the 

text of the document. 

15. 

The Board has also observed that at section 2.1 of the document titled “General Requirements”, it is 
stated that “If the Monitoring body is a natural person, it must, in particular, prove that it has the 
necessary human and financial resources […]” and “[…] in the event of an unforeseen event leading 
to a sudden, temporary or permanent loss of the Monitoring body role, that the monitoring activities 
may be continued uninterrupted.” The Board encourages the HR SA to specify and further develop 
those requirements in order for such a monitoring body to be accredited. These requirements could 
include being able to demonstrate the availability of adequate resources for the specific duties and 
responsibilities, as well as the full operation of the monitoring mechanism over time. Another example 
could include the resignation by the person concerned, or his or her temporary inability. 

2.2.2  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS 

16.  With reference to the second minimum information requirement of the application, being that “The 
Monitoring body’s residence or registered office, which in either case shall be placed in the European 
Economic Area (EEA)”, the Board recommends that the HR SA specifies, for example by means of a 
footnote, that monitoring bodies acting in the framework of codes for transfers could be located either 
inside or also outside of the EEA provided that the concerned monitoring body has an establishment 
in the EEA. 

17.  Along the same lines, the Board recommends that HR SA amends the first paragraph of section 2.1 
(“General requirements”), which stipulates the following: “The Monitoring body must be a legal entity 
with a registered office or, if a natural person, have their headquarters or domicile, to exercise the 
professional activity as a Monitoring body in the European Economic Area (EEA)”. As per the above, 
monitoring bodies acting in the framework of codes for transfers could be located either inside or also 
outside of the EEA, provided that the concerned monitoring body has an establishment in the EEA. 

18. 

19. 

The Board encourages the HR SA to remove the following sentence in the last paragraph of section 
2.1,  given  that  it  is  redundant  with  the  sentence  immediately  after:  “The  Monitoring  body  must 
document the principles of its monitoring activities in writing”. 

For the sake of certainty, the Board also encourages the HR SA to specify that the obligation to provide 
evidence  of  the  requirements  falls  upon  the  monitoring  body,  and  that  such  evidence  must  be 
provided at the application stage. 

Adopted  

 

6 

2.2.3 

INPEPENDENCE 

20. 

21. 

The Board is of the opinion that the independence for a monitoring body should be understood as a 
series of formal rules and procedures for the appointment, terms of reference and operation of the 
monitoring  body.  These  rules  and  procedures  will  allow  the  monitoring  body  to  perform  the 
monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without being directly or 
indirectly influenced, or subjected to any form of pressure that might affect its decisions. This means 
that a monitoring body should not be in a position to receive any instructions regarding the exercise 
of its task from code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies, or from 
the code owner itself. 

In this regard, the Board notes that paragraph 63 of the Guidelines stipulates that the monitoring body 
shall be appropriately independent in relation to its impartiality of functions from the code members, 
the code owner and from the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies. The Board 
appreciates  that  the  HR  SA  transposed  this  requirement  into  the  document.  However,  the  Board 
recommends that, in order for the text to be consistent with the Guidelines, the HR SA adds the above 
cited reference to the impartiality of functions. 

22.  Having read the second paragraph of section 2.2 of the HR SA’s accreditation requirements, the Board 
is  of  the  opinion  that  such  part  of  the  document  does  not  include  all  the  elements  which  the 
monitoring body may use as evidence to demonstrate its independence as listed in paragraph 63 of 
the Guidelines. The Board therefore encourages the HR SA to refer to the monitoring body’s funding, 
the appointment of members/staff, decision making process and more generally to the organisational 
structure in this respect. 

23. 

In  the  fourth  paragraph  of  the  “Independence”  section,  the  HR  SA  mentions  specifically  internal 
monitoring bodies in relation to their independence. The Board encourages the HR SA to include more 
details in this respect by adding a reference to the illustrative elements related to the independence 
of internal monitoring bodies, listed in paragraph 65 of the Guidelines. 

24.  Having examined section 2.2.1 of the document, titled “Legal and decision-making procedures”, the 
Board acknowledges that the HR SA stipulates that “the duration or expiration of the mandate of the 
monitoring body must be regulated in such a way to prevent overdependence on a renewal or fear of 
losing the appointment, to an extent that adversely effects the independence in carrying out the 
monitoring activities by the Monitoring body.” The Board is of the opinion that such a requirement 
should be expanded by establishing the maximum duration of the term of the monitoring body. In this 
respect, the Board encourages the HR SA that the maximum duration of the term of the monitoring 
body should be indicated. 

25. 

26. 

The Board is of the opinion that in the last paragraph of section 2.2.1 (the one before the list), the 
word  “pressure”  should  be  replaced  with  “influence”  to  be  more  in  line  with  the  spirit  of  the 
Guidelines. Hence, the Board encourages the HR SA to amend requirements accordingly. 

In  sub-section  2.2.2,  dedicated  to  the  financial  resources  of  the  monitoring  body,  the  Board 
recommends that the HR SA includes a reference to the specific instance where the monitoring body 
would not be considered to be financially independent if the rules governing its financial support allow 
a code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop its financial contributions 
to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. 

27. 

In  respect  of  financial  resources,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  HR  SA  also  adds  a  specific 
requirement whereby, in particular in the case of an internal monitoring body, the monitoring body 

Adopted  

 

7 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

must prove full autonomy for the management of the budget or other resources. The Board further 
encourages  that  the HR SA  adds a requirement  to prove that  the internal monitoring body has a 
specific  separate  budget  allocated  to  it  by  the  code  owner  and  which  it  is  able  to  manage 
independently. 

The Board also encourages that, in the same sub-section, the HR SA specifies that the monitoring body 
must have sufficient financial and other resources together with the necessary procedures to ensure 
the functioning of the code of conduct over time to ensure long-term financing, i.e. in case one or 
more funding sources are no longer available. 

In the matter of organisational resources and structure (sub-section 2.2.3), the HR SA appropriately 
stated  in  the  document  that  the  monitoring  body  “must  be  composed  of  an  adequate  and 
proportionate  number  of  personnel  […]”.  However,  the  Board  considers  that  a  higher  degree  of 
specificity is required in this context and therefore encourages the HR SA to replace the adjective 
“adequate” with “sufficient numbers of properly qualified personnel”. 

In addition to the above, in relation to the same requirement related to organisational resources and 
structure, the Board encourages the HR SA to specify how these aspects could be demonstrated by 
the monitoring body, for example through the procedure to appoint the monitoring body personnel, 
the remuneration of the said personnel as well as the duration of the personnel’s mandate and the 
contract or other formal agreement with the monitoring body. 

Insofar as internal monitoring bodies are concerned, the HR SA correctly stated in the document that 
in case such a body is set up within a code owner, the monitoring body must remain structurally 
separated from the other areas of the code owner’s structure up to and including the level below the 
senior management. The Board believes that this requirement should be expanded further in line with 
the Guidelines, and particularly with paragraph 65 thereof. In this respect, the Board encourages the 
HR SA to specify that the requirements of separate staff and management, accountability and function 
from other areas of the organisation of an internal monitoring body may be achieved in a number of 
ways, for example, by putting in place effective organisational and information barriers and separate 
reporting management structures for the code owner. 

The Board takes note that the HR SA in the document identified two main ways by means of which 
the monitoring body can demonstrate its organisational independence. These include, on the one 
hand, the identification of risks to its organisational independence and how it will remove or minimize 
such risks and use an appropriate mechanism for safeguarding impartiality, and on the other hand for 
internal monitoring bodies, setting-up of the organization and information concerning its relationship 
to its larger entity (i.e., the code owner). In the Board’s view, there are other manners upon which the 
monitoring body can rely in order to demonstrate its independence, such as for example: 

•  the procedure to appoint its personnel; 

•  the remuneration of its personnel; 

•  the duration of its mandate; and, or 

•  contracts or other forms of agreement with the monitoring body. 

Thus, the Board encourages the HR SA to include in the document the additional requirements set out 
above. 

Adopted  

 

8 

2.2.4  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

33. 

34. 

In the section of the document dedicated to “Conflict of interest”, the HR SA appropriately wrote that 
“in accordance with Article 41 paragraph 2 point (d) of the GDPR, it must be demonstrated that the 
exercise of the Monitoring body’s tasks and duties do not result in a conflict of interest.” The Board 
believes that it is the responsibility of the monitoring body to demonstrate this; hence, it encourages 
the HR SA to re-draft this sentence and amend it accordingly. 

Furthermore, as far as conflict of interest is concerned, the Board notes paragraph 68 of the Guidelines 
prescribes that “the monitoring body must remain free from external influence, whether direct or 
indirect, and shall neither seeks not take instructions from any person, organisation or association”. 
Whilst the Board appreciates that the HR SA stated in the document that the monitoring body must 
be  free  of  external  influence,  whether  direct  or  indirect,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  HR  SA 
specifies  that  the  monitoring  Body  shall  neither  seeks  not  take  instructions  from  any  person, 
organisation or association, to fully align the document with the wording of the Guidelines. 

2.2.5  EXPERTISE 

35.  As a general remark, having read sub-section 2.4 of the document on “Expertise”, the Board is of the 
opinion that this part should contain more details and reflect all the requirements of paragraph 69 of 
the Guidelines. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

In  particular,  the  code  owners  should  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  the  monitoring  body  has  the 
requisite level of expertise to carry out its role in an effective manner. As such, the application will 
need to include details as to the knowledge and experience of the body in respect of data protection 
law  as  well  as  of  the  particular  sector  or  processing  activity  covered  by  the  scope  the  code.  For 
example, being able to point to previous experience of acting in a monitoring capacity for a particular 
sector  may  assist  in  meeting  this  requirement.  Furthermore,  an  in-depth  understanding  of  data 
protection issues and expert knowledge of the specific processing activities which are the subject 
matter of the code would be welcomed. The staff of the proposed monitoring body should also have 
appropriate operational experience and training for carrying out the monitoring of compliance such 
as  in  the  field  of  auditing,  monitoring,  or  quality  assurance  activities.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends that the HR SA amends this sub-section to align it with the wording of paragraph 69 of 
the Guidelines. 

The Board notes that the document does not make reference to the legal expertise of the monitoring 
body, which is also relevant to carry out its monitoring function in an appropriate manner. The Board 
thus encourages the HR SA to include a requirement specifically on legal expertise. On the other hand, 
as of technical expertise, the Board encourages that the HR SA specifies that this is also a requirement, 
depending on the subject-matter of the code to be monitored. 

2.2.6  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

The HR SA included requirements about “Established procedures and structures” in section 2.5 of the 
document. In the opening of this section, the HR SA refers to “feasible monitoring mechanism”. In 
view  of  respecting  as  much  as  possible  the  content  of  section  12.4  of  the  Guidelines,  the  Board 
encourages that the HR SA replaces this with “appropriate governance and procedures”. Further to 
this, the Board encourages that the HR SA adds a list of the actions, as presented in paragraph 70 of 
the Guidelines, which allow the monitoring body to adequately: 

Adopted  

 

9 

•  assess for eligibility of controllers and processors to apply the code; 

•  monitor compliance with its provisions; and 

•  carry out reviews of the code’s operation. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

Further  to  the  above,  as  of  the  procedures  to  actively  and  effectively  monitor  code  members’ 
compliance with a code’s provisions, the Board encourages that the HR SA includes some examples, 
such  as  random  or  unaccounted  audits,  annual  inspections,  regular  reporting  or  the  use  of 
questionnaires. 

The Board encourages the HR SA to clarify that the word “expulsion” as used in this paragraph is to be 
interpreted as “exclusion”, which is term used in the GDPR. Furthermore, for the sake of clarity, the 
Board recommends that in the sentence “The Monitoring body must establish the basis and scope of 
its activities prior to the start of monitoring tasks to ensure transparency for the Code members and 
to allow for verification by the Croatian DPA”, the word “basis” is deleted. 

In order to align the document with paragraph 72 of the Guidelines, the Board recommends that the 
HR SA adds that monitoring procedures can be designed in different ways as long as they take into 
account  factors  such  as  the  risks  raised  by  the  data  processing  in  scope  of  the  code,  complaints 
received or specific incidents and the number of members of the code etc., and that consideration 
could be given to the publication of audit reports as well as to the findings of periodic reporting from 
controllers and processors within the scope of the code. 

42.  Concerning  the  requirement  in  document  that  “The  Monitoring  body  must  establish  ad  hoc 
procedures (triggered for example on the basis of an inquiry or complaint from a data subject) to 
actively  and  effectively  monitor  the  Code  members’  compliance  with  the  Code’s  provisions”,  the 
Board recommends that the word “ad hoc” is deleted, given that procedures should be permanent. 

2.2.7  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

43.  As for transparent complaint-handling, the Board recommends that the HR SA includes the contents 
of paragraphs 75 to 77 of the Guidelines in the document. In doing so, the HR SA should adapt the 
requirements  to  the  wording  of  the  Guidelines.  For  example,  the  HR  SA  should  specify  that  the 
monitoring body must demonstrate that it has documented procedures and structures to enable it to 
receive, assess and handle complaints in an impartial and transparent manner. 

44. 

45. 

The Board additionally recommends that the HR SA adds a requirement to the document to the effect 
that  the monitoring body needs to have a  publicly available complaints-handling process which is 
sufficiently  resourced  to  manage  complaints  and  to  ensure  that  decisions  of  the  body  are  made 
publicly available, as per the relevant part of the Guidelines. 

Finally, the Board recommends that the HR SA further expands the second paragraph of this section 
of the document, which reads that “For example, evidence of complaints handling procedure could 
be a described process to receive, evaluate, track,  record  and resolve complaints”. In the Board’s 
opinion,  the  HR  SA  should  include  the  examples  given  by  the  Board  in  the  Guidelines  in  the  box 
between paragraphs 74 and 75 for added clarity. 

2.2.8  COMMUNICATION WITH THE HR SA 

46.  As for the matter of communication with the HR SA, the Board recommends that the contents of the 
corresponding section of the Guidelines are incorporated in the document. In this regard, the Board 

Adopted  

 

10 

recommends that the first paragraph of section 2.7 of the document is redrafted in alignment with 
paragraph  78  of  the  Guidelines  by  specifying  that  the  actions  concerned  could  include  decisions 
concerning  the  actions  taken  in  cases  of  infringement  of  the  code  by  a  code  member,  providing 
periodic reports on the code, or providing review or audit findings of the code. 

47. 

The Board additionally recommends that the HR SA makes reference to the effective communication 
with other competent supervisory authorities and not only with the HR SA, as the case may be and as 
the need may arise. 

2.2.9  CODE REVIEW MECHANISM 

48.  As a general remark, the Board recommends that section 2.8 is aligned with the corresponding section 
12.7  of  the  Guidelines.  Particularly,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  HR  SA  adds  that  review 
mechanisms should also be put in place to adapt to any changes in the application and interpretation 
of the law or where there are new technological developments which may have an impact upon the 
data processing carried out by its members or the provisions of the code, as per paragraph 80 of the 
Guidelines. 

2.2.10  LEGAL STATUS 

49.  With regard to the legal status of the monitoring body, the Board recommends that the HR SA changes 
the wording to say that instead of “capable of being legally responsible for its monitoring activities”, 
the monitoring body must be “capable of being fined” to align the wording with paragraph 81 of the 
Guidelines. 

50.  Concerning the sentence “The Monitoring body must demonstrate that it is able to deliver the Code 
of conduct’s monitoring mechanism over a suitable period of time”, the Board encourages the HR SA 
to replace the word “deliver” with “apply”, which the Board considers more appropriate. 

51. 

The Board encourages the HR SA to specify in the document that the monitoring body can be subject 
to sanctions by the competent supervisory authority for failing to comply with its obligations, or for 
failing to act appropriately when the rules of the code of conduct are breached. 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

52. 

The draft  accreditation requirements of the HR SA may lead to  an inconsistent application of the 
accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made. 

53.  Regarding general remarks, the Board recommends that the HR SA: 

1. 
2. 

adds a reference to the Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers; and 

amends the definition section in line with the definitions of the Guidelines. 

54.  Regarding application requirements, the Board recommends that the HR SA: 

1. 

specifies, that monitoring bodies acting in the framework of codes for transfers could be located 
either inside or also outside of the EEA provided that the concerned monitoring body has an 
establishment in the EEA 

2. 

amends the first paragraph of section 2.1 in line with the above. 

Adopted  

 

11 

55. 

 Regarding independence, the Board recommends that the HR SA: 

1.  makes reference to the impartiality of functions as described in paragraph 63 of the Guidelines; 

2. 

3. 

includes  a  reference  to  the  specific  instance  whereby  the  monitoring  body  would  not  be 
considered to be financially independent if the rules governing its financial support allow a code 
member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop its financial contributions 
to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body; and 

adds a specific requirement that, in particular in the case of an internal monitoring body, the 
monitoring  body  must  prove  full  autonomy  for  the  management  of  the  budget  or  other 
resources. 

56.  Regarding conflict of interest, the Board recommends that the HR SA specifies that the monitoring 

body shall neither seek nor take instructions from any person, organisation or association. 

57.  Regarding expertise, the Board recommends that the HR SA aligns sub-section 2.4 of the draft with 

the wording of paragraph 69 of the Guidelines. 

58. 

 Regarding established procedures and structures, the Board recommends that the HR SA: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

 

in the sentence “The Monitoring body must establish the basis and scope of its activities prior 
to the start of monitoring tasks to ensure transparency for the Code members and to allow for 
verification by the Croatian DPA”, deletes the word “basis”; 

adds that monitoring procedures can be designed in different ways as long as they take into 
account factors such as the risks raised by the data processing in scope of the code, complaints 
received  or  specific  incidents  and  the  number  of  members  of  the  code,  etc.,  and  that 
consideration could be given to the publication of audit reports as well as to the findings of 
periodic reporting from controllers and processors within the scope of the code; and 

deletes  the  word  “ad  hoc”  with  reference  to  procedures,  given  that  procedures  must  be 
permanent. 

59. 

 Regarding transparent complaint-handling, the Board recommends that the HR SA: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

includes the contents of paragraphs 75 to 77 of the Guidelines in the document; 

adds a requirement to the document to the effect that the monitoring body needs to have a 
publicly  available  complaints-handling  process  which  is  sufficiently  resourced  to  manage 
complaints and to ensure that decisions of the body are made publicly available, as per the 
relevant part of the Guidelines; and 

for added clarity, further expands the second paragraph of this section of the document with 
the examples given by the Board in the Guidelines in the box between paragraphs 74 and 75. 

60.  Regarding communication with the HR SA, the Board recommends that the HR SA: 

1. 

2. 

incorporates into the document the text of the corresponding section of the Guidelines; and 

refers to the effective communication with other competent supervisory authorities and not 
only with the HR SA, as the case may be and as the need may arise. 

Adopted  

 

12 

61.  Regarding code review mechanisms, the Board recommends that the HR SA aligns section 2.8 with the 
correspondent section of the Guidelines. Particularly, the Board recommends that the HR SA adds that 
review  mechanisms  should  also  be  put  in  place  to  adapt  to  any  changes  in  the  application  and 
interpretation of the law or where there are new technological developments which may have an 
impact  upon  the  data  processing  carried  out  by  its  members  or  the  provisions  of  a  code,  as  per 
paragraph 80 of the Guidelines. 

62.  Regarding legal status, the Board recommends that the HR SA changes the sentence reading “capable 
of being legally responsible for its monitoring activities”, to instead be worded to the effect that the 
monitoring body must be “capable of being fined”, in order to align the wording with paragraph 81 of 
the Guidelines. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

This opinion is addressed to the HR SA and will be made public pursuant to Art. 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

63. 
64.  According to Art. 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the HR SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part. The HR SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board 
for inclusion in the register of decisions, which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in 
accordance with Art. 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted  

 

13 

