DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

TO: University Hospital of Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, 

OF: Tremona Road, Southampton, SO16 6YD 

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to University Hospital of Southampton NHS Foundation Trust 
(hereafter UHS) in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK General 
Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in respect of certain infringements 
of the UK GDPR.   

The reprimand 

1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to UHS in respect 
of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 

• Article 12 (3) which states ‘The controller shall provide information

on action taken on a request under Articles 15 to 22 to the data
subject without undue delay and in any event within one month of
receipt of the request. That period may be extended by two further
months where necessary, taking into account the complexity and
number of the requests. The controller shall inform the data subject of
any such extension within one month of receipt of the request,
together with the reasons for the delay. Where the data subject makes
the request by electronic form means, the information shall be
provided by electronic means where possible, unless otherwise
requested by the data subject.’

• Article 15 (1) which states ‘that the data subject shall have the right

to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not
personal data concerning him or her are being processed, and, where
that is the case, access to the personal data.’

• Article 15 (3) which states ‘The controller shall provide a copy of the

personal data undergoing processing.’

1.3 Based on the findings of this investigation, the ICO deems that UHS 
responded to 59% of incoming Subject Access Requests (hereafter SARs) 
during the period of 01 August 2022 to 01 July 2023 within the statutory 
timeframe. UHS continues to have a backlog of SAR cases (621 as of 
30/01/2024) and, based on recent figures provided, this does not appear 

1 

to be improving. The data subjects are a mixture of service users and 
employees. 
 
1.4 The reasons for the Commissioner’s provisional findings are set out 
below. 
 
1.5 UHS NHS Foundation Trust is one of the largest University Hospitals, 
providing inpatient services to a population of 1.9 million people who live 
in Southampton and South Hampshire. UHS is also responsible for 
providing specialist services to over 3.7 million people living in Southern 
England and the Channel Islands. The trust operates five hospitals and 
one birth centre. Due to the nature of the organisation, there are several 
categories of data processed including personal identifiers and special 
category data, including health. 
 
1.6 During the investigation, UHS attended a virtual compliance meeting 
with the ICO and outlined the processes and procedures followed to 
complete SARs. These were inadequate and not in line with current 
legislation. For example, until January 2021, staff dealt with SARs in 
alphabetical order, meaning several data subjects were left waiting for an 
extensive period of time for their request to be completed. It should be 
noted that although this has contributed to the increased backlog, this 
has been rectified and SARs are now processed in date order. 
 
1.7 UHS provided policies and procedures through the course of the 
investigation in relation to data protection and SARs. The Access to 
Records policy was significantly outdated, relating to previous legislation 
of Data Protection Act 1998.  
 
Article 15 (1) and Article 15 (3)  
1.8. During the period investigated, were failing to respond to 41% of 
SARs within the statutory timeframe of one (or three calendar months for 
complex SARs). UHS failed to demonstrate that they have provided data 
subjects the right to obtain confirmation as to whether UHS are 
processing their personal data and if so, giving the data subjects access 
to this information within the statutory timeframe. 
 
Article 12 (3)  
1.9. UHS failed to inform data subjects of the progress of their request, 
other than the acknowledgement email sent when the request is received. 
As a result, this led to complaints from data subjects to UHS directly and 
to the ICO. It should be noted that due to the volume of requests UHS 

 

2 

received monthly, UHS were automatically applying extensions to all 
requests, instead of only complex cases, without informing data subjects. 
This is a failing of Article 12(3) which requires controllers to inform the 
data subject of any such extension along with the reasons for the delay. 
ICO would expect UHS to regularly make contact with data subjects 
informing them of the progression of their case. 
 
1.10. UHS state priority cases and those with a deadline provided by a 
third-party requestor are dealt with as soon as received and completed 
within the statutory time frame. 
 
Remedial steps taken by UHS. 
 
1.11. The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
steps taken by UHS in the light of this incident. In particular UHS actively 
notified the ICO of their backlog in April 2023 and have cooperated fully 
through the course of the investigation. 
 
1.12. UHS attended a compliance meeting with the ICO and were open 
and honest throughout the discussions. As a result of the compliance 
meeting, UHS implemented some remedial measures, such as devising a 
letter / email to inform data subjects of the progress of their request, this 
was implemented by 7 November 2023.  
 
1.13. During the investigation, UHS stated requests can take a while to 
progress and complete due to the number of different systems and paper 
records held by UHS. UHS are intending to implement a new system 
which should relieve time and allow better oversight, management and 
location of records in order to complete SARs promptly. 
 
Decision 
 
1.14. Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
remedial measures implemented from October 2023 onwards, the 
Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to UHS in relation to the 
alleged infringements of Article 12 (3), Article 15 (1) and Article 15 (3) of 
the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
1.15. The Commissioner has set out below certain recommendations 
which may assist UHS in rectifying the infringements outlined in this 
reprimand and ensuring UHS future compliance with the UK GDPR. Please 
note that these recommendations do not form part of the reprimand and 

 

3 

are not legally binding directions. As such, any decision by UHS to follow 
these recommendations is voluntary and a commercial decision for UHS. 
For the avoidance of doubt, UHS is of course required to comply with its 
obligations under the law. 
 
1.16 If in the future the ICO has grounds to suspect that UHS  is not 
complying with data protection law, any failure by UHS rectify the 
infringements set out in this reprimand (which could be done by following 
the Commissioner’s recommendations or taking alternative appropriate 
steps) may be taken into account as an aggravating factor in deciding 
whether to take enforcement action - see page 11 of the Regulatory 
Action Policy  Regulatory Action Policy (ico.org.uk) and Article 83(2)(i) of the UK 
GDPR.  
 
1.17. The Commissioner recommends that UHS should consider taking 
certain steps to improve its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular 
reference to Article 12 (3), Article 15 (1) and Article 15 (3) of the UK 
GDPR, the following steps are recommended: 
 
1.  UHS should action the remaining outstanding SARs in the backlog.  
 
2.  UHS should take all reasonable steps to ensure SARs are responded to 

within the statutory deadlines, in line with Articles 12(3), 15(1) and 
15(3) of the UK GDPR.  

 
3.  UHS should ensure that staff are adequately trained to process and 

respond to SARs. It is noted that current staff undertook data 
protection training in December 2023, therefore, UHS should ensure 
this training is refreshed when appropriate.  

 
4.  UHS should consider reviewing all policies and procedures in relation to 
the data protection legislation, especially Access to Records and ensure 
these are up to date with current legislation and reviewed frequently.  

 
5.  UHS should consider any additional improvements that can be made to 

the SAR handling process.  

 
6.  UHS should continue to monitor SAR compliance, in line with their 
KPI’s,  ensuring the appropriate oversight by senior management 
continues.  

 
1.18. We invite UHS to provide a progress update of the above 
recommendations in six months of the date of this reprimand, i.e. by 25 
September 2024.  
 
 
 

 

4 

