

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Personal data security control (Broker Consulting, a.s. company)



Based on the notification of a breach of personal data security, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the security of personal data during its processing by Broker Consulting, a.s. The notification of a breach of personal data security by Broker Consulting, a.s. contained information about the loss of shipments sent by individual financial advisors of the audited person via the Czech Post . The contents of the shipments were contractual documents relating to 82 persons and relating to the activities of 10 financial companies (banks, savings banks, credit companies, insurance companies). These financial companies also reported the security breach in question to the Office at the same time. The inspectors found that the shipments containing personal data were not delivered to the addressee - the company A-Scan s.r.o. During the inspection, the inspected company reported that the shipments were found after about six weeks. The inspectors focused on handling personal data at Broker Consulting, a, s., Česká pošta, s.p., and A-Scan, s.r.o. However, it was not possible to prove which of these entities did not fulfill their obligations through the inspection. However, the inspectors found discrepancies in the statements of individual employees, discrepancies in signatures and records of shipments. Therefore, the whole matter was referred to the Police of the Czech Republic, which investigates the matter based on the notification of the Czech Post, s.p. František Bartoš. Recommendation: Following the risk assessment, the administrator must take appropriate technical and organizational measures. If, despite the adoption of these measures, a breach of personal data security occurs, the administrator must always document the case and further evaluate whether he is obliged to report the security breach to the Office, or notify the affected data subjects. In some cases, it may also be appropriate to report the matter to the Police of the Czech Republic.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Financial services, insurance industry > Inspection of personal data security (Broker Consulting company, a.s.) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



