The Data Protection Ombudsman's decision does not address the legality of data transfers to Russia – the matter remains under investigation 


   


Publication date 
27.9.2023
 17.11
| Published in English on 6.10.2023 at 13.26


Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman's decision concerning Yango does not mean that data transfers to Russia would be in compliance with the GDPR or that Russia has an adequate level of data protection. The decision prohibiting such data transfers, issued by the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman in October, was an interim decision. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman does not have the power to make a final decision in the matter concerning Yango. The final decision is made by the supervisory authority with overall responsibility for the case. The investigation is still ongoing. The assessment of the lawfulness of Yango's data transfers will be assessed and the final decision made in what is called a "cross-border procedure", in which EU data protection authorities assess the matter in cooperation. The examination of the adequacy of data protection in Russia is a key component of this assessment. The Netherlands (the lead supervisory authority) are responsible for preparing the final decision. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman will participate in all stages of the matter's processing. If the authorities disagree on the resolution of the matter, it will be referred to the European Data Protection Board. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman considers it important that the matter be concluded without delay. Further information:  Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus, anu.talus(at)om.fi, tel. +358 29 566 6766 Releases by the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman:

European data protection authorities continue to cooperate on the supervision of Yango taxi service’s data transfers – Yango is allowed to continue operating in Finland until further notice (26 September 2023)
Data protection authorities continue investigating the Yango taxi service's data transfers (31 August 2023)
Finnish DPA bans Yango taxi service transfers of personal data from Finland to Russia temporarily (8 August 2023)
 













