THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

March 19, 2020

 

 

  Schools use digital tools during school closures - LfDI

offers support

 

Since Tuesday, March 17th, all schools in Baden-

Württemberg closed. Online supervision of the students is

welcome and useful during school closures, especially when

final exams coming up. So everyone can continue to learn or prepare for exams

prepare - and are in any case sensibly busy.

 

Schools in the state are currently using almost every opportunity to communicate with their students online

to network students and also use programs and aids

tel, which has so far been little examined or even problematic under data protection

are table. In this difficult situation, the LfDI offers its support so that

when selecting online services, relevant experiences are taken into account and good ones

decisions can be made.

 

The initiative of the Baden-Württemberg Ministry of Education is expressly welcomed

all schools in the state via Belwue (the university network of state universities

Baden-Württemberg) the learning management system based on open source

To offer Moodle free of charge (see the letter from the Ministry of Education at

https://it.kultus-bw.de/,Lde/6109036). Own operation by a body of the

des, like Belwue, guarantees that no data will be leaked to third parties. The-

This learning management system is in the configuration of Belwue data protection

tested and approved; especially on such data protection compliant solutions should be in

be accessed in times of crisis.

 

In addition LfDI Dr. Stefan Brink concludes: “The state doesn’t just need a lot at the moment

overview, but above all the trust of its citizens. That

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

it will only be preserved if it continues to abide by the law and straight

Pupils from disadvantages through the use of data protection-violating pro-

grammes and tools preserved. Even in times of crisis, the LfDI stands by all authorities

on hand as a consultant.”
 
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0. Further

Information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.
 
 

