1/9



Procedure No.: PS/00147/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 06/12/2018, the Director of the AEPD resolved the complaint with
entry date of 04/03 and 05/17/2017 presented by A.A.A., in the procedure
AP/00010/2018.

SECOND: In proven facts it was arranged:

“1) The complainant makes it clear that in executing the summons by ORDER of
01/15/2016, promotion shift for labor personnel at the service of the Administration of
the Autonomous Community of Extremadura. DOE nº XX of ***DATE.1, was published on the web
of the denounced a LIST OF APPLICANTS DEFINITELY ADMITTED –
PROMOTION SHIFT 2016 of the JUNTA DE EXTREMADURA, group III, category: commissioned-
internal promotion with a list of “99” people with the following information: number of or-
den, NIF, name and surnames, appearing the complainant with the order number YY, although it is not
appreciate the date. The summons provided in base 1. 3 that “The bases of the present con-
call, as well as all its annexes can be consulted through the internet at the address
gobex.es. In addition, for information purposes, they will be made public at the same address of
internet the list of applicants admitted and excluded, provisionally and definitively the re-
Approved ratings for each exercise and the score of the merit contest phase.”

In base 4: "Admission of applicants", point 2 it was reported that "The provisional lists and
definitive must be revealed, in any case, in the Ministry, in the Centers of
Administrative Attention of the Junta de Extremadura and in the Personal Response Offices.
finished. The publication of the Resolution approving the definitive lists in the Official newspaper
of Extremadura (...)”.

2) The complainant also denounces that on the website of the Junta de Extremadura
citizen.gobex.es, portal of the citizen of the Junta de Extremadura, section “employment
public”, “my situation” tab, entering the number of the DNI that has been known.
due to the previous publication of the admission of students, it is possible to see the name and surname
two, and the applications for calls for places that it has presented, in this case, for the
denouncer is seen those of civil servant, technical assistant, with the call, and as labor
ral the same with the category "warehouse manager" - free shift, group IV, admitted. At the same
How long does your degree appear and the number it occupies on waiting lists in various locations?
ities. Access to said information is credited on 05/22/2017.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

3) The Junta de Extremadura recognized in previous proceedings that the final list of
admitted and excluded related to the aforementioned ORDER of 01/15/2016, was published in
the internet address gobex.es with the NIF and full name and surnames.

4) It was accredited by inspection diligence on 01/15/2018 that consulting GOOGLE with the
DNI of the complainant leads to a web page in which a document appears indexed in
pdf entitled GROUP IV, which corresponds to the web page of ciudad.gobex and appears
the list of definitively admitted applicants, group IV in charge of Warehouse, free shift
name, ordered by surname and first name with the data of the complainant: surname and first name and
DNI except the letter.

5) During the processing of this file, it has not been proven that the defendant has changed
changed or eliminated the way to access the citizen portal / public employment / my situation
tion/ with respect to the DNI data. Nor does the defendant have and put into practice
rules for deleting data from participants in calls already made and completed
long time.

THIRD: The operative part indicated:

FIRST: DECLARE that the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE PUBLIC FUNCTION
(MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION) has violated the provisions
in articles 9.1 and 4.1 of the LOPD, typified as serious in articles 44.3.h) and
44.3.c) of the aforementioned Organic Law.

SECOND: REQUEST the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE PUBLIC FUNCTION
(MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION), in accordance with the
established in section 3 of article 46 of the LOPD to prove within a period of
month from this act of notification the measures of internal order that prevent that in the
future there may be a new infringement of articles 9.1 and 10 of the LOPD, for which
that file of previous actions E/03206/2018 is opened.

FOURTH: Article 46 of the LOPD provided, "Infringements of the Public Administrations
case”:

"1. When the infractions referred to in article 44 were committed in file-
ros of public ownership or in relation to treatments whose controllers would be fi-
files of this nature, the sanctioning body will issue a resolution establishing the
measures to be taken to stop or correct the effects of the infringement. Is
resolution will be notified to the person in charge of the file, to the body on which it depends hierarchically
mind and those affected if any.

2. The sanctioning body may also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
plinaries, if applicable. The procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be those established
in the legislation on the disciplinary regime of the Public Administrations.

3. The sanctioning body must be notified of the resolutions that fall under re-

relationship with the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.»

4. The Director of the Agency will inform the Ombudsman of the actions that

carried out and the resolutions that it dictates under the protection of the previous sections”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

On 07/03/2018, a letter was received from the Ombudsman requesting to be informed-
rá of the actions carried out by the accused. A letter was sent to the defendant
07/23/2018 to inform them of the compliance situation, warning that “it is understood
proof that the infringement that was declared continues to occur as deduced from the consultation
ta on the website of the Junta de Extremadura ciudad.gobex.es, citizen portal
of the Junta de Extremadura, "public employment" section, "my situation" tab. in it
Enter the DNI of the complainant and you have access to your data, being able to consult
also lists of provisional or definitive admissions of applicants for procedures of
years ago, 2009, 2010 etc. in which their DNIs also appear "
The shipment was collected on 07/26/2018, without receiving a response.
Again, a letter was sent to the defendant in 2019 without being attended to, observing
that the declared infraction continues.
FIFTH: It is verified on 06/15/2020 that on the page of the Junta de Extremadura: https://ciu-
dadano.gobex.es/mi-situacion through the DNI, in the box, PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT, MY SI-
TUACION (DNI that is referred to in different types of listings of that headquarters, can be
access with the claimant's DNI) and name and surnames and par- ticipation history are displayed.
Participation in selective processes. In addition, from this option you can consult the con-
calls in which there are new lists of personal data with complete DNI and
processes that could already be completed, as is the case of the Administrative Body, especially
auxiliary technical specialty definitely admitted applicants, being a call for
2009 including the qualification of that signed process.

In the “data protection” section of said page, there is

22. File 'SELECTIVE TESTS AND WAITING LISTS'.
IDENTIFICATION AND PURPOSE OF THE FILE:
- Description of the purpose and intended uses: Manage the selection processes of the
candidates who intend to access professional bodies or categories or specialties
des in which jobs are classified in the field of General Administration of
the Junta de Extremadura.
- Classification of purposes: Human Resources.
- Name of the office or dependency before which to exercise the A.R.C.O rights: Address
General of Public Function, Human Resources and Inspection. Avda. Valhondo, s/n. Building
III Millennium. 06800-Merida (Badajoz).
 The communication to the administrative body can be made by the usual means (Official
Mailboxes, General Registries and Telematic Registry). For information on the use
electronic signature can consult the Electronic Headquarters of the Administration of the Co-
Autonomous Community of Extremadura.

The page https://ciudadano.gobex.es/web/guest/protecciondatos also has a search engine
of calls for public employment with, among others and by way of example, the option "shift
disability", a call for "civil servants", "higher graduates" and graduates is selected.
len complete lists with DNI data, of admitted or the qualification note of 2015.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

The same result occurs if another Body or Scale is introduced, such as administrative,
obtaining lists with personal data of names, surnames and DNI, from
presumably already completed some time ago, in this case processes of a call for
riots of 2013.

A screenshot is made of those queries that are incorporated into the file without
detriment of the fact that the situation of conserving personal data of processes already finalized
zados seems common on that page.

SIXTH; On 07/10/2020, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

“ START SANCTION PROCEDURE to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
PUBLIC FUNCTION (FIRST VICE PRESIDENCY AND DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND AD-
PUBLIC MINISTRY-JUNTA DE EXTREMADURA), for the presumed infraction of the
articles 58.2.d) and 5.1.e) of the RGPD, being punishable in accordance with article
58.2.b) of the RGPD, considered very serious, for the purposes of prescription in the article
72.1 m) and 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with article 83.5 e) and 83.5 a) of the RGPD.”

No allegations were made.

SEVENTH: On 02/22/2021, a resolution proposal is issued with the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
with warning to GRAL DIRECTION. OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE (Vice Presidency
First and Ministry of Finance and Public Administration), with NIF S0611001L, for a
infringement of article 58.2 d) and another of article 5.1.e) of the RGPD, in accordance with the
article 83.5 e) and a) of the RGPD,

Compliance with measures is required, in application of article 58.2.d) “order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with
the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and
within a specified period”

Against the proposal, no arguments were received.

PROVEN FACTS

1) The defendant did not comply with the requirement that was made regarding the infractions
declared in procedure AP10/2018 of 06/12/2018 regarding articles 9.1 and 4.1
of the LOPD. Requested later on the requirement, did not give any answer.

2) Ex officio, it was proceeded to review whether compliance with the declaration had been carried out.
do initiating this procedure for not complying with the resolution previously issued.

3) Likewise, it is accredited in this procedure that typing the data of the claim
(name and surname) in search engines such as GOOGLE result in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

Doing several pages with your data and complete DNI, having as reference sgtex.es, or go-
bex.es Extremadura Health Service.

4) It is also proven that the public employment page gobex.ex contains DNI data
full names, names and surnames, and health data (disability), in reference to processes
already finished, for example from 2015, in lists of admitted or qualifications. The shape
of carrying out the search allows by type of personnel, type of call, such as shift
of disability, Body, Group and specialty, including personal data in the list provi-
sional of admitted, the provisional list of excluded or the definitive list of admitted, as well
like grades.

 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

 
By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in the
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (as far
hereinafter, RGPD); recognizes each control authority, and according to what is established in the
Articles 47 and 48 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

II

Failure to comply with the measures ordered in the previous resolution, AP procedure
10/2018, supposes on the part of the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE PUBLIC FUNCTION, the
commission of the infringement provided for in article 83.5 e) of the RGPD that states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

"and. non-compliance with a resolution or a temporary or definitive limitation of the
treatment or suspension of data flows by the control authority with
under Article 58(2) or failing to provide access in breach of Article 58,
Paragraph 1."

Non-compliance with the resolution is deduced from not carrying out what is stated in it.
resolved, specifically:

What is related to the possibility of accessing through the DNI in the tab "my

a)
situation” of gobex.es, and reach personal data. It continues in the same situation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

That the acts of processing calls processes, such as lists of admitted,
a)
or the publication of listings, cannot survive over time, as stated
in the AP/10/2018 “by inspection diligence of 01/15/2018 that consulting GOOGLE
with the DNI of the complainant leads to a web page in which a document appears indexed.
document in pdf entitled GROUP IV, which corresponds to the web page of ciudad.go-
bex and contains the list of definitively admitted applicants, group IV in charge of Alma-
cén, free shift, ordered by surnames and name with the data of the complainant: surnames and
name and ID except the letter.”

This breach has been maintained over time, without giving a reason for its correction.

III

In addition, the other infringement charged is for the maintenance of personal data
contained in lists related to competitive bidding procedures (lists
of provisional and definitive admissions as well as those excluded and qualifications) which means
part of the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE PUBLIC FUNCTION, the commission of the infraction
provided for in article 5.1.e) of the RGPD that indicates:

“Personal data will be:

“kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties for no more
time necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the data
Personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are treated
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to
the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the term
of conservation”);”

It must be indicated that these data have not been generated after the entry into force of the RGPD but
that come from before, and correspond to acts of procedure of processes of calls
already completed, so there is no reason for them to continue to exist, having fulfilled their
purpose, and noting that a profile of the convened continues to be exposed, composed
for disability, full ID, name and surname, which violates the regulations of
Data Protection,
The infringement is included in article 83.5.a of the RGPD as:

“The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

a)
two in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Among the lists that are kept there are also data on disabled people who
fully identify themselves. These are considered a category of special data, enjoying
of a reinforced protection in its treatment, and the treatment of the same is qualified-
mind more serious because they contain health data.

The specification of the purpose is an essential first step in the application of the operations.
treatment purposes and in the design of data protection safeguards for any
treatment operation carried out. In fact, the specification of the purpose must
contemplate the completion cycle of the same and the consequent conservation of the data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

only until they are necessary, establishing a policy of requirements related to the
data retention period. All this for the sake of legal certainty, predictability,
in order to protect the interested parties by pre-establishing limits on the way in which
that data controllers can use your data.

Thus, the respondent should justify documentaryally for how long they will be
maintain the data in relation to the purpose of the treatment. In this case, notwithstanding
the internal effects of processing records of public calls processes,
that can be saved and kept in compatible formats for the purposes of accreditation of
compliance with procedures, it is not necessary to maintain the web for the purpose of con-
sulta universal, because its ends have already been fulfilled. In the present case, the publication is accredited
open publication on the web of selective processes with data that allow to fully identify
mind the participants of already finished processes, either through the appearance of data in
lists of different types (admitted), with health data, which goes against the principle of
limited data retention.

IV

Regarding infractions, article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD indicates: "Depending on what
established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
The infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of

competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the RGPD.”

“a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Article 77.1. c) and 2. 3. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDDGG:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of

those who are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning
the same with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the protection authority

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

of data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
sufficient evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be
those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that are not
had been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the sanction is imposed,
will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and order the
publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

v

Proving that the measures declared in the procedure were not complied with
prior AP/00010/2018, to which is added that special category data survive and in the
No allegations have been made at this time nor has the correctness of the statements been verified.
infractions of the website of the claimed party, it is urged that in accordance with the
resolved, review the sections "my situation" and the public job search engine of
“ciudadanogobex.es”, deleting lists that contain personal data from processes already
finalized and determine a conservation and purification policy for said type of data.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the graduation criteria
of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE PUBLIC FUNCTION, with NIF
S0611001I, for a violation of article 5.1.e) of the RGPD, and of article 58.2 of the RGPD, of
in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
PUBLIC FUNCTION.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

FOURTH: In application of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD that empowers the control authority
a: “order the data controller that the processing operations comply with
the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and
within a specified period”, the respondent is urged to contribute within a
month upon receipt of this resolution, detail of the measures adopted to correct the
the infractions indicated and the protocol established in relation to the conservation of data
related to selection processes.

FIFTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1/10. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the effective filing of the
Sponsored links. If the Agency was not aware of the filing
contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

