1/23

 File No.: EXP202201318

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 23, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against BARNA PORTERS
SEGURETAT, S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

File No.: EXP202201318

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), on December 27,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The
claim is directed against BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT, S.L. with NIF
B62735089 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The reasons on which the claim is based
are the following:

In the letter received by this Agency, a vulnerability is reported on the website
of the company BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT, S.L., existing for a year.

As explained, by clicking with the mouse on an icon in the shape of a red magnifying glass that
appears in the upper left corner of the screen corresponding to the section
"Accés Serviap", (whose link can be found at the bottom of the aforementioned web page),
an Excel file of authorizations for
Covid-19, with (...) entries, containing the following information: (...).

The Inspection services of this Agency have verified that, at the time of
submission of the claim, the vulnerability continued to exist.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/23

Along with the claim, provide a complete Excel file containing authorizations for
Covid-19, with (...) tickets and set of images to explain how to access
such information.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the
data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), by means of electronic notification, was received in
dated February 11, 2022, as stated in the certificate in the file.

On March 11 and 16, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating that the notification sent by the Agency is the first communication
received by which they are aware of the reported violation, not having
received prior communication from the complainant or from any other possible affected party.

It states that SERVIAP, as an intranet or internal tool of the company, is a
private tool, custom developed by ENDURO WEB TOURS SL with CIF
B66390725 (in charge of the treatment), hereinafter ENDURO, to which they only have
access authorized users (through username and password), so it is not
accessible to people without ties to the company.

No one unrelated to or outside the company can have access to this personal data,
with the exception, obviously, of the reported incident, caused by an error in
programming during the development of some tests of the new version of the intranet
corporate. It indicates that to date no complaints have been received from
no person about said circumstance.

It explains that the cause that has caused the claim has been a failure of
programming:

  - Your computer provider, ENDURO, is the same one that develops the application
SERVIAP as an internal intranet tool of the company, to which they have access
Workers. This application has been developed to measure.

- At the time, complying with the obligation to provide workers with a
“Covid-19 self-responsibility certificate”, a form was scheduled
auto-fill authorization form for personnel movement during restricted hours
COVID-19.

Said form was only accessible to registered users, workers of the
company, not containing personal data, until it was filled in by the
workers, so the data entered has been provided by the
own users.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/23

The personal data, consisting of (...) were stored in a database
data.

It is this database, which fed the file that was accessed
accidental in the Serviap logo icon that appears in the upper left part of the
access page https://serviap.cat/ during tests of a new version of
Serviap.

  - Since they were working on a more advanced version with more
Serviap functionalities to replace version v19.51, at the end of 2021, will be
carried out some programming tests, feeding the database with the
list that could be accessed accidentally as indicated with
anteriority.

The “red magnifying glass” icon at the top left of the page
of access to SERVIAP, where the vulnerability was detected, it is not about any
search tool, but said icon corresponds to the logo of the application,
so it is not operational or contains access for users.
It exposes that the vulnerability has been caused by a programming error in one of the
computer technicians (junior programmer) who accidentally inserted a link
that allowed the file to be downloaded.

The list, which has given rise to the complaint, has been removed from the link
accidental, once knowledge of said circumstance has been made, that is, at the
receipt of the requirement formulated by the Agency, on February 11,
currents.

Said icon (the logo of the application) has never been designed or designated as a
access to the tool, not being the object of access to a database
public or information with the exception of being only the identifying logo of
the corporate intranet.

Indicates that once the vulnerability was communicated and verified, ENDURO reviewed the
home page of the intranet and immediately proceeded to remove the link that
accidentally gave access to the list, so said vulnerability was
removed.

Both from the organization and the data protection delegate of this
were able to verify that said vulnerability was annulled and that it was no longer possible
access the file that same afternoon.

Regarding the measures adopted by the person in charge to solve the aforementioned
situation have been:

 a) Contact the provider in charge of programming and maintaining the
corporate intranet to remove immediately, the accidental link in the
icon (logo of the intranet) that appears in the upper left part of the page of
access to Serviap.
b) Register the reported violation in the Incident Register.
c) Debug the excel file to know the number and people affected.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/23

d) Inform users through a notice on the intranet itself.

As for the measures adopted to avoid a repetition of this situation, they have been:

a) Reiterate to the person in charge of the treatment the obligations in terms of protection

of data.

b) Request the transfer of the direction and supervision of programming,
maintenance and testing of the Serviap intranet to a senior programmer with
more years of experience. In this regard, it is worth noting the commitment by
part of Enduro, which has agreed to entrust these tasks to a
Senior programmer with more than years of experience.

In turn, it is indicated that you should avoid testing with real data.

The data affected by the detected violation consist of: (…).
Indicates that the file accessible through the reported vulnerability contained (...)
entries, many of them repeated and that, once the repetitions have been refined, and
subtracted the header line, the user "Demo" and the user "No Vale" are
confirms a total of (...) people affected without including any
minor.

Since access to the company's intranet page https://serviap.cat/ is
carried out mainly, if not exclusively, by the staff of the organization,
the incidence or possible consequences for the people affected are estimated to be low.

Regarding the communication of the incident to the AEPD, he states that, since the
responsible has become aware of said violation through the notification
sent by the Spanish Data Protection Agency itself, the organization has not
considered necessary to notify the gap to the AEPD in accordance with art. 33 GDPR, at
already have knowledge of this, since it was the authority itself who communicated to the
organization the vulnerability detected.

Finally, it indicates that the organization is firmly committed to the
regulatory compliance not only in the areas where it provides its services: surveillance of
facilities and protection of goods, establishments, shows, contests or
conventions, custody of keys and receipts, operation of reception center of
alarms, protection of people and installations and maintenance of devices and
security devices; but with continuous improvement and quality standards.

In connection with the above statements, the Respondent provides the
following documentation:

- Document number ONE detailing the "Labor and HR" treatment, where

You can appreciate, among others:
or file structure,
or principles of treatment,
or security policy, and
or data protection measures.

- Document number TWO: refined Excel file, containing the list of the

people affected and arranged alphabetically.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/23

- Document number THREE: Report issued by the Delegate for the Protection of

Data about the incident.

- Document number FOUR: ISO 27001 Certificate
- Document number FIVE: Final Audit Report 2021, ISO 27001 where
You can see that on 05.15.2021 no incident was detected, nor was there any
any findings that would point to the reported vulnerability.

THIRD: On March 27, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

INVESTIGATED ENTITIES

BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT, S.L. with NIF B62735089 with address in ARIZALA,
43 - 08028 BARCELONA (BARCELONA)

ENDURO WEB TOURS SL with NIF B66390725 with address at C/ BRUC, 3. - 08758
CERVELLO (BARCELONA)

RESULT OF INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

On June 16, 2022, it is verified that the link to download the file
from the website https://serviap.cat has disappeared.

On June 16, 2022, it was verified that a web page https://
serviap.cat/21serviap.asp under development. It is saved in the SIGRID system, as an object
associated, the screenshot of the home page of this website under development.

Following the request for additional information required by this Agency to
BARNA PORTERS dated July 7, 2022, the claimed party refers to this
Agency, with entry registration number in the AEPD REGAGE22e00032239897 and
dated July 26, 2022, the following documentation:

- Record of processing activities
- Log of security violations
- Treatment manager contract with CLAU informática
- Treatment manager contract with LEITIC
- Treatment manager contract with ENDURO
- Completion form for treatment managers/suppliers
- Confidentiality agreement for suppliers
- GDPR compliance guarantee certificate

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/23

It is verified that the Record of processing activities provided by the
The claimed party contains all the information that article 30 of the Article 30 of the
GDPR.

The Security Violation Log is analyzed, verifying that the security violation has been included.
Incident produced on February 11, 2022 along with all the necessary information
to treat it:

- Type of incident
- Person who reports the incident
- Person in charge of resolution
- Affected files
- Description
- Effects caused
- Corrective measures

This record details that, having been informed by the workers through
notice on the corporate intranet, no claim has been filed by
those affected as of March 10, 2022.

The corrective measures specified in the registry are the following:

- 1:37 p.m. Incident has been reported to DPD.
- 1:38 p.m. The data manager responsible for programming has been contacted
and maintenance of the website. You are informed of the reported vulnerability and
requires proceed to review and take the appropriate corrective measures to cancel
the automatic download of the file by clicking on the icon in the upper corner
left.
- 14.02h The accidental link that allowed the download of the file has been removed.
- 2:07 p.m. The DPD is informed of the elimination of the vulnerability
- 2:16 pm ENDURO is contacted again:

a) the data protection obligations have been reiterated
as ET and are reminded that testing with data should be avoided.
real.

b) has been asked to direct and supervise the programming,
maintenance and testing of the Serviap intranet is assigned to a programmer
senior with more years of experience.

Such issues are accepted by the provider.

The defendant states in his brief that, after the communication of the vulnerability
detected by the AEPD on February 11, 2022 and its resolution of
almost immediately, it was published on February 14, 2022 on the intranet
notice about the incident detected.

Managers and roles

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/23

In its response brief, the claimed party continues to state the roles
performed by the different suppliers with whom they maintain contracts of
treatment managers and attach a copy of said contracts.
Regarding ENDURO, he specifies that it is his IT provider: he deals
both the maintenance of systems and applications, as well as the development of the
SERVIAP application as an internal intranet tool of the company, to which
workers have access
Reviewed the contract between BARNA PORTERS, as data controller, and
ENDURO, as Data Processor, notes that in said contract it is
take into account the aspects specified in article 28.3 of the GDPR.

. - Object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment.
. - Type of personal data and categories of interested parties.
. - Obligations and rights of the person in charge.
. - Obligations and rights of the Manager.
This section includes the obligation to process personal data only
for the end of the order.
. - Personnel authorized to carry out the treatment.

In this section, the person in charge guarantees that the staff has received the training
necessary to ensure that data protection will not be jeopardized
personal.
In this regard, it will be seen later that ENDURO has provided a certificate
training in data protection for the personnel of your company authorized to
the processing of personal data.

. - Security measures.

In this section, the MANAGER declares to be up to date with regard to
the obligations derived from the Data Protection regulations, especially in
regarding the implementation of security measures for the different
categories of data and treatment established in article 32 of the GDPR.

The MANAGER guarantees that said security measures will be adequately implemented.
security and will help the person responsible to comply with the obligations established in the
articles 32 to 36 of the GDPR.

. - Security breach.
. - Communication of data to third parties.
. - International data transfers.
. - Outsourcing of data processing.
. - Rights of the interested parties.

This section specifies assistance to the person in charge, whenever possible,
in attention to the exercise of rights of the interested parties.

. - Responsibility
. - End of service provision.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/23

It is specified that, at the choice of the person in charge, the person in charge must delete or
return the stored data.

ENDURO suitability as developer and commissioner

Consulted the claimed party about the characteristics and suitability of ENDURO for
carry out the development of the SERVIAP application, BARNA PORTERS explains why
considers that this company offers sufficient guarantees as manager to apply
appropriate technical and organizational measures and justifies it by providing the following
documentation:

. - Completion form for treatment managers/suppliers
. - Confidentiality agreement for suppliers
. - GDPR compliance guarantee certificate

On July 7, 2022, information is requested from ENDURO.
On that same date, the notification is made available to you through the
electronic notifications Notific@, in which the date of automatic rejection is stated: 18
July 2022.
Said request is reiterated through the postal services, this notification being
delivered on August 2, 2022.
Dated August 12, 2022 and with AEPD entry registration number
REGAGE22e00035200405, ENDURO sends this Agency the following information and
manifestations:

Development methodologies and test protocol

Asked about the development methodologies that ENDURO follows in a project
of these characteristics and the development and testing protocols before carrying out a
new version to production, ENDURO explains in detail the needs,
application requirements, architectures, and functionalities, along with the lifecycle
(including test methodology) and the treatment of data in the different
application layers.

Those responsible for the project carry out a series of tests to confirm the
feasibility and utility of the solution. If it complies with what was established in the design phase,
It is implemented in processes that require it. If not, action should be taken
to correct the failures that prevent its normal development.

Required the catalog of tests that have been carried out before deploying the
new version of SERVIAP in production (that is, in particular for this case of
development of a new version of SERVIAP), ENDURO does not provide particular evidence
for this matter.

Technical qualification of personnel

Regarding the technical qualification of the people involved in the project of
development, ENDURO goes on to specify the technical profiles that have been involved
in each part of the project. Figures such as analyst, designer, programmer intervene
and trainer.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/23

Data protection training

In this sense, ENDURO details that it conducts training on an annual basis and
provides a data protection training certificate in which
specifies, among other things, that ENDURO has received adequate information and
sufficient to adapt and keep up to date with the GDPR and to transmit it to the
authorized personnel for the processing of personal data

File origin of the breach and accidental link

Consulted about the purpose of creating the breach source file, ENDURO
states that, due to travel restrictions and curfew due to
of the COVID-19 epidemic, it was necessary to implement a form for staff
of the company
The information contained in this file facilitated confirmation to third parties,
mainly security forces and bodies and exceptionally (for security) to
end customer that the posted worker traveled to cover a
determined position/location.
ENDURO declares that, during the development of the new version of the intranet
corporate, it seems that one of the programmers accidentally pasted by mistake
the internal access link to the file in the logo of the intranet access page
corporate, at the end of November, beginning of December 2021.
 
Recurrence of incidents and vulnerabilities

ENDURO concludes by highlighting that the accidental link was removed in a manner
immediately as soon as it became known and that this is the first incident to
that the company has faced.

CONCLUSIONS

Confidentiality security breach caused by a programming error that
allows the download of an Excel file containing personal data of the
company workers.
The defendant BARNA PORTERS acknowledges that the access link to the file was pasted
by mistake in the logo of the access page to the corporate intranet.
ENDURO places the pasting of the link at the end of November, beginning of December
of 2021.
The accidental link was removed immediately as soon as it became known
of it. The breach was fixed on February 11, 2022.
The availability and integrity of personal data are not affected, since
that this link allowed the download of the file, but not the modification of the file in
your server.
The measures taken by the controller to fix the breach are considered
suitable.
The complained party has informed users through a notice on the intranet,
Posted on the first business day after learning of the breach.
The claimed party did not notify the AEPD of the breach since it was the AEPD itself
who informed the organization of the vulnerability detected.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/23

The treatment manager contract between BARNA PORTERS, as responsible
of the treatment, and ENDURO, as the person in charge of the treatment, takes into account the
aspects specified in article 28.3 of the GDPR.
In particular, the security measures section indicates that the MANAGER
declares to be up-to-date with regard to the obligations derived from the
Data Protection regulations, especially with regard to the
implementation of security measures.
ENDURO has provided information on the test protocols that are carried out
carried out before bringing a new version to production, but has not provided
evidence of the tests that have been carried out in this particular case.
Although the programming error that caused the security breach is
unlikely that it would have been detected in a battery of tests (since it is not
functionality being implemented), ENDURO has not provided
evidence that confirms that in this case the battery of tests has been carried out
before taking the version to production.

FIFTH: According to the report collected from the AXESOR tool, the entity
BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT, S.L. It is a large company established in the year
2001, (…).

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

previous questions

BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT, S.L. is a company with the legal form of a company
limited dedicated to private security activities, for which it processes personal data
personal character of its clients and workers, understanding by personal data
nal: “any information about an identified or identifiable natural person”.

It carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, since it is
who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the GDPR:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/23

"responsible for the treatment" or "responsible": the natural or legal person, authority
public authority, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the criteria
Specific reasons for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the
member states

An identifiable natural person is considered to be one whose identity can be determined,
directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a
name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or
one or several elements proper to physical, physiological, genetic, psychological,
economic, cultural or social of said person.

Likewise, treatment must be understood as “any operation or set of operations
tions made on personal data or sets of personal data, either by
automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structure
ration, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, co-
communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of access authorization,
collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction”.

Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of security"
security of personal data" (hereinafter security breach) as "all
those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
Accidental or illegal transfer of personal data transmitted, stored or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.”
In the present case, there is a personal data security breach in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality
caused by a programming error that allowed the download of an Excel file
that contained personal data of the company's workers.

The data affected by the detected violation were: (…). They were not affected
the availability or integrity of personal data, since the link allowed
downloading the file, but not modifying the file on your server.

The file accessible through the reported vulnerability contained (...) entries,
many of them repeated, although, once the repetitions are refined, a
total of (...) people affected without including any minor.

Since access to the company's intranet page is done
mostly, if not exclusively, by the staff of the organization,
estimated the incidence or possible consequences for the people affected to be low.

The accidental link was removed immediately as soon as it became known
of it. The breach was fixed on February 11, 2022.

According to GT29, a "Breach of confidentiality" occurs when there is
an unauthorized or accidental disclosure of personal data, or access to it
themselves.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/23

Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the GDPR, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the GDPR. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in article 32 of the GDPR, which regulates the security of the treatment.

II

Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR establishes the following:

"Article 5 Principles relating to treatment:

1. Personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate data security
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or organizational procedures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In relation to this principle, Recital 39 of the aforementioned GDPR states that:

“[…]Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and
appropriate confidentiality of personal data, including to prevent access
or unauthorized use of said data and of the equipment used in the treatment”.

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the party
claimed violated article 5.1 f) of the GDPR, principles relating to the treatment of all
time that, as a result of the confidentiality breach, the personal data of (...) people
workers in the file were unduly exposed to third parties, violating the
principles of integrity and confidentiality, both established in the aforementioned article
5.1.f) of the GDPR.

The data affected by the detected violation were: (…).

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
investigation, it is considered that the known facts could constitute a
infringement, attributable to the claimed party, due to violation of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

IV.

If confirmed, the aforementioned violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/23

total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

to)
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 "Infractions considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

V

GDPR Article 32

Article 32 of the GDPR, security of treatment, establishes the following:

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which may include, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the safety of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration will be given to
take into account the risks presented by data processing, in particular as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to such data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/23

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and
have access to personal data can only process such data by following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of
the Union or of the Member States.

The facts revealed imply the lack of technical and organizational measures
by enabling the display of personal data of registered users
two, employees of the company, with the consequent lack of diligence for the responsibility
saber, allowing unauthorized access by outside parties. The person in charge of the
The treatment maintains that the vulnerability was caused by a programming error during the
development of tests of the new version of the corporate intranet, by one of
computer technicians (junior programmer) who accidentally inserted a link
that allowed the file to be downloaded.
 
At the time, complying with the obligation to provide workers with a
“Covid-19 self-responsibility certificate”, a form was scheduled
auto-fill authorization form for personnel movement during restricted hours
COVID-19.

In principle, said form was only accessible to registered users,
employees of the company, not containing personal data, until it was
filled in by the workers themselves.

From the analysis of the documentation provided by the claimed party, it turns out that it was this
database, the one that fed, with real data, the file that was accessed
accidental. This scenario represents a great risk that may end up favoring
the leakage of information to third parties. The risk is found precisely when
use real data of those people who were in the database of the
productive environment - a place where they were safe - and they move to the environment of
test where they are most vulnerable. Hence, you must ensure that the data is
replaced by others, so that they can be used in test environments,
with the certainty that the tests are valid, while guaranteeing the protection
of confidential data so that, if it were to leak, there is no
possibility of relating them to the real people in question. It is a measure of
Basic security, reflecting the principle of privacy by design and by default.

Likewise, it is clear that, although the programming error that caused the breach of
security is unlikely to have been detected in a battery of tests, the
person in charge of the treatment has not provided evidence that confirms that in this
If the battery of tests has been carried out before taking the version to production.
The testing phase is a necessary and very important process that, if carried out
correctly, constitutes another security measure that allows obtaining results

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/23

reliable, being of great benefit for the company in question to operate in a
more efficient.

In this sense, the person in charge of the treatment has committed to order said
work to a senior programmer with more than years of experience.

It should be noted that the GDPR in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that is the object
of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, probability risks
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

In addition, security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, noting that the determination of the technical measures and
organizational procedures must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption, the
ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level,
particular account of the risks presented by data processing, such as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this sense, recital 83 of the GDPR states that:

"(83) In order to maintain security and prevent processing from infringing what
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as the
encryption. These measures must ensure an adequate level of security, including the
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and nature of the personal data to be
protect yourself. When assessing risk in relation to data security, considerations should be
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the destruction, loss or accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or processed in another way, or communication or access not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

Recital 75 of the GDPR lists a series of factors or assumptions associated with
risks to the guarantees of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties:

“The risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to data processing that could cause
physical, material or immaterial damages and losses, particularly in cases in which

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/23

that the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, usurpation of
identity or fraud, financial loss, damage to reputation, loss of
confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of the
pseudonymization or any other significant economic or social harm; in the
cases in which the interested parties are deprived of their rights and freedoms or are
prevent you from exercising control over your personal data; In cases where the data
personal treaties reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religion
or philosophical beliefs, union membership and genetic data processing,
data relating to health or data on sexual life, or convictions and offenses
criminal or related security measures; in cases where they are evaluated
personal aspects, in particular the analysis or prediction of aspects related to the
performance at work, economic situation, health, preferences or interests
personal, reliability or behavior, situation or movements, in order to create or
use personal profiles; in cases in which personal data of
vulnerable people, particularly children; or in cases where the treatment
involves a large amount of personal data and affects a large number of
interested.”

In this sense, the Internet search, for example, (...) can offer results
that combining them with those now accessed by third parties, allow us access to
other applications of those affected or the creation of personality profiles, which do not
they have to have been consented to by the owner.

The responsibility of the defendant is determined by the lack of measures of
security, since it is responsible for making decisions aimed at implementing
effectively the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the confidentiality of the data,
restoring their availability and preventing access to them in the event of an incident
physical or technical

In this sense, Recital 74 of the GDPR establishes that:

"The responsibility of the data controller must be established for
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.”

Transferring these considerations to the specific case under examination, it can be
conclude that, at the time of the breach, the claimed party did not have
of the reasonable security measures based on the possible estimated risks,
since the defendant herself acknowledges that the access link to the file was pasted
by mistake in the logo of the access page to the corporate intranet by one of the
computer technicians (junior programmer) having since applied for the
transfer of management and supervision of programming, maintenance and testing of
the Serviap intranet to a senior programmer with more years of experience.

In accordance with the evidence available in this agreement of
initiation of the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/23

investigation, it is considered that the known facts could constitute a
infringement, attributable to the defendant, for violation of article 32 of the GDPR

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

SAW

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

to)

the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to ensure a level of security appropriate to the
risk of treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

VII

Sanction proposal

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/23

Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
determine whether the controller or processor notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent
gives; i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
given previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to
the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to certification mechanisms.
fications approved in accordance with article 42,
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
as the financial benefits obtained or the losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

For its part, article 76 "Sanctions and corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD
has:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of processing
of personal data.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger process by absorption after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate

h) The submission by the person in charge or in charge, with character
voluntary, alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those

data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/23

cases in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

Penalty for violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction for infringement
of article 5.1 f) of the GDPR, to the party claimed as responsible for said
offense typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, it is appropriate to graduate the fine taking into account
consider:

As aggravating factors:

Article 83.2 a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account
the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered; for not having duly guaranteed, at least between the end of
November and early December 2021, the confidentiality of the data of (...)
affected people. The defendant herself acknowledges that the access link to the file
It was pasted by mistake in the logo of the access page to the corporate intranet.

Considering the exposed factors, the initial assessment that reaches the amount of the
fine is €20,000 for violation of article 5.1 f) of the GDPR, regarding the
breach of the principle of confidentiality.

Penalty for violation of article 32 of the GDPR

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction for infringement
of article 32 of the GDPR, to the party claimed as responsible for said
offense typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR, it is appropriate to graduate the fine taking into account
consider:

As aggravating factors:

Article 83.2 a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account
the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered; for not having duly guaranteed, at least between the end of
November and early December 2021, the confidentiality of the data of (...)
affected people. The defendant herself acknowledges that the access link to the file
It was pasted by mistake in the logo of the access page to the corporate intranet.

Considering the exposed factors, the initial assessment that reaches the amount of the
fine is €10,000 for violation of article 32 of the GDPR, regarding the lack of
diligence in implementing appropriate security measures.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/23

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against BARNA PORTERS
SEGURETAT, S.L., with NIF B62735089,
- For the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, classified in accordance with the
provided in article 83.5 of the GDPR, classified as very serious for the purposes of
prescription in article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD.
- for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, classified in accordance with the provisions
in article 83.4 of the GDPR, classified as serious for the purposes of prescription in the
Article 73 f) of the LOPDGDD.
SECOND: APPOINT instructor to B.B.B. and, as secretary, to C.C.C., indicating
that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the
documentation provided by BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT, S.L., with NIF
B62735089, as well as the documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate
General of Data Inspection in the actions prior to the start of this
sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be, for the alleged violation of article 5.1.f)
of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of said regulation, an administrative fine of
amount 20,000.00 euros and for the alleged violation of article 32 of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.4 of said regulation, administrative fine amounting to 10,000.00
euro.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT, S.L.,
with NIF B62735089, granting a hearing period of ten business days so that
Formulate the allegations and present the evidence that you consider appropriate. In its
pleadings must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears
at the top of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 24,000.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/23

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 24,000.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination
of the procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the corresponding measures.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at 18,000.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated (24,000.00 euros or 18,000.00 euros), you must make it effective
by entering the account number IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000
(BIC/SWIFT Code: CAIXESBBXXX) opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the
concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading
of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it accepts.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In compliance with articles 14, 41 and 43 of the LPACAP, it is noted that, as regards
successively, the notifications that are sent to you will be made exclusively in a
electronically, through the Unique Authorized Electronic Address (dehu.redsara.es) and the
Electronic Notification Service (notifications.060.es), and that, if you do not access
their rejection will be recorded in the file, considering the process completed and
following the procedure. You are informed that you can identify before this Agency
an email address to receive the notice of making available to the
notifications and that failure to practice this notice will not prevent the notification
be considered fully valid.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.
Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-080323

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/23

>>

SECOND: On April 13, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 18,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/23

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202201318, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BARNA PORTERS SEGURETAT,
S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

