September 13, 2024.  
The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has imposed 12 new administrative fines totaling 270,700 euros for violations of the General Data Protection Regulation and the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
Due to a series of violations of the General Data Protection Regulation, a fine of 190,000 euros was imposed on the Special Hospital as the data controller. The Agency received multiple requests to determine violations of the right to personal data protection due to the failure of the Special Hospital from the Rijeka area to provide copies of personal data, which occurred due to the loss of personal data of a special category (health data) in July 2019. In the course of the administrative procedure, the Agency established that the Special Hospital:

1. did not implement appropriate technical measures to protect the information radiological system regarding image files, i.e., did not create a backup of personal data, medical images from radiological examinations, which is contrary to the provision of Article 32(1)(b) of the General Data Protection Regulation. The failure to take appropriate technical measures led to the irreversible loss of personal data (medical images from radiological examinations) of patients.
  
2. did not inform the Agency about the security incident of the loss of personal data (medical images from radiological examinations of patients) from July 2019 within 72 hours of becoming aware of the incident, which is contrary to the provision of Article 33(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
  
3. did not conclude a data processing agreement with the company as the processor of personal data, which is contrary to the provision of Article 28(3) of the General Data Protection Regulation. It was established that the Special Hospital, as the data controller, and the company responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the new system, as the processor, did not conclude a contract related to the processing of personal data.
  
4. did not appropriately specify the retention periods for personal data from telephone conversation recordings, which is contrary to the provision of Article 5(1)(e) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
  
5. processes personal data of respondents through the recording of telephone conversations via the call center without a legal basis under Article 6(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, nor did it prove the same in relation to Article 5(2). Specifically, the Special Hospital could not even provide an answer regarding the legal basis for recording telephone conversations and did not prove the existence of a legal basis for such processing of personal data at any point in the procedure, although the Agency requested this multiple times.
  
6. when establishing calls to the call center, did not inform respondents about the processing of personal data using clear and simple language, which is contrary to the provision of Article 12(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation. Furthermore, the hospital did not provide respondents with all necessary information regarding the collection of their personal data through the recording of telephone conversations in the manner prescribed in accordance with the provision of Article 13(1)(c) and (2)(a) and (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation. A review of the privacy policy revealed that it did not indicate at any point that telephone conversations directed to the call center are recorded.
  
7. did not involve the data protection officer in matters related to the drafting/revision of the privacy policy and regarding the recording of telephone conversations and the specification of retention periods for recordings of telephone conversations, which is contrary to the provision of Article 38(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Specifically, in July 2019, the Special Hospital irretrievably lost an unspecified number of personal data of its respondents, namely medical images from radiological examinations along with basic identification data, and in its statements to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, it claimed that it only became aware of the data loss in September 2022 after respondents contacted the Special Hospital and requested access to their personal data (medical images from radiological examinations) in the form of copies, while the procedure established otherwise. Specifically, the Agency determined during the procedure that the chief radiology engineer became aware on July 23, 2019, that access to the server of the radiological system containing the patients' image files was not possible, and the processor informed the management of the Special Hospital about this. However, the Special Hospital did not report the security incident to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data.  
During the procedure, it was established that the Special Hospital does not perform backups (security copies) of the image archive from the radiological information system due to, according to the hospital, the large volume of data, which would require greater resources and investments in the hospital's information system. The Special Hospital cannot invoke the costs of establishing security copies, as it is obliged to ensure the security of health data, and the existence of security copies cannot be considered a disproportionate cost in relation to the risk of losing such data. Precisely because of the failure to take technical protective measures, the Special Hospital bears a high degree of responsibility, as creating backups is one of the best preventive tools that ensures the continuous availability and integrity of personal data.  
The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has not received information that the Special Hospital has taken any actions to rectify the identified irregularities.

The Agency also imposed two administrative fines on hotels totaling 45,000 euros for unauthorized processing of personal data via cookies and nine administrative fines on data controllers totaling 35,700 euros for failing to indicate that the premises (specifically stores) are under video surveillance or that the sign is not visible at the latest upon entering the recording perimeter, or that it does not contain all relevant information (Article 27 of the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation).