1/4

Procedure No.: PS/00136/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00267/2019

In procedure PS/00136/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to the entity FORMAUTO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ, S.L., given the
complaint filed by Mrs. A.A.A. and by virtue of the following,

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated December 10,
2018 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
motivated by the processing of data carried out through cameras of a security system.
video surveillance whose owner is FORMAUTO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ, S.L. with NIF
B93570364 (hereinafter claimed) installed in ***ADDRESS.1.

The grounds on which the claim is based are "installation of a
video-surveillance cameras, without an informative poster informing the
respect” (folio nº 1).

Provides documentary evidence (photographs 1, 2 and 3) that confirm the absence of

any sign in the entrance area to the workshop.

SECOND: On 01/16/19, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the entity
FORMAUTO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ, S.L., so that it could claim about the characteristics
of the system and prove that they have the mandatory informative posters, stating
as "Notified" in the computer system of this body.

THIRD: Consulted on 03/20/19 the computer system of this body,
There is no evidence that any response has been given for the appropriate legal purposes.

FOURTH: On May 17, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection proceeded to issue Agreement to Start the procedure
referenced sanctioning party, stating the same as notified in the system
computer of this organization.

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 12/10/2018, this Agency received a claim from the
complainant by means of which the following is transferred as "fact":

“Installation of a video-surveillance camera system, without the availability

informative poster informing about it” (folio nº 1).

Second. The Formauto entity is identified as the main responsible entity
Alvarez Fernandez S.L.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

Third. There is evidence of the absence of an informative poster indicating that it is
a video-monitored area.

Fourth. There is no evidence that he has informed the employees or the
union representatives of the installation of the video-surveillance system.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 12/10/18 by
means of which the following is transferred as "fact":

“Installation of a video-surveillance camera system, without the availability

informative poster informing about it” (folio nº 1).

The exposed facts could suppose the commission, on the part of the defendant of
an infringement of article 12 of the RGPD, in the terms referred to both in the aforementioned
article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, and the respondent must give
due compliance with the provisions of article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of 8
November, from the Spanish Data Protection Agency. Consequently, the
claimed must:

1. Place at least one informative badge in the video-monitored areas

located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 RGPD, in the distinctive
aforementioned information must identify, at least, the existence of a
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in these provisions.

2. Keep available to those affected the information referred to in the

quoted GDPR.

The art. 22. 4 LOPDGDD provides:
“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

III

According to the evidence provided, it is identified as the main responsible
of the installation of the cameras the entity--Formauto Alvarez Fernández S.L.--.

It has been verified that the establishment has devices for
recording, being the same devoid of the mandatory informative poster(s) to the
regard.

The installed cameras cannot permanently monitor the space of
work of the employee (a), as well as they cannot obtain images of the areas of
rest of the same (vgr. coffee machines, leisure room, etc).

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, it can be concluded that the reported establishment lacks
information poster, informing workers that it is a video zone
monitored, affecting the right to information contained in art. 13 GDPR.

The informative poster(s) must indicate the person in charge before whom

be able to exercise the rights recognized within the framework of the RGPD.

The video-surveillance cameras cannot be oriented in the same way.
permanently towards the spaces where they develop their activity (eg towards the
screen, leisure areas, etc), and must be informed of the purpose of the system (vgr.
security reasons of the company, etc).

It is recalled that the lack of collaboration with this body may lead to the
commission of a SERIOUS infringement, in accordance with the provisions of art. 73.1 letter o)
LOPDGDD.

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- NOTICE (PS/00136/2019) to the entity FORMAUTO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ,
SL for non-compliance with the provisions of art. 13 RGPD, having installed a
video-surveillance camera system without the mandatory information poster, typified
in art. 83.5 b) RGPD, being the same sanctioned by virtue of the provisions of the
article 58.2 GDPR.

2.- REQUEST the reported entity FORMAUTO ALVAREZ FERNANDEZ, S.L.
so that within a period of one month from this act of notification proceed to comply with the
following measures:

-You must proceed to place the mandatory informative posters indicating
It is a video-monitored area.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

-You must inform this Agency providing documentary evidence (photograph
with date and time) that proves compliance with the measure.

-You must inform the workers or, where appropriate, the representatives of
the same, of the purpose of the treatment, so that they have
knowledge of the treatment and use that can be given in your case to your
personal image.

3.- NOTIFY this Agreement to the reported entity FORMAUTO ALVAREZ
FERNANDEZ, S.L. and INFORM the denouncing party Mrs. A.A.A.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

