DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
the Chief Constable of Sussex Police in accordance with Schedule 13(2)(c) 
of the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) in respect of certain 
infringements of the DPA 2018.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to the Chief 
Constable of Sussex Police in respect of the following infringements of the 
DPA 2018: 
 
  Section 35(1) which states that “the processing of personal data for any 

of the law enforcement purposes must be lawful and fair.” 
 

  Section 45(1) which states that “A data subject is entitled to obtain 

from the controller- 
(a)  Confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him 

or her is being processed, and 

(b)  Where that is the case, access to the personal data and the 

information set out in subsection (2).”  

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
It is considered that the Chief Constable of Sussex Police failed to give 
adequate or appropriate consideration to compliance with data protection 
legislation, either that in place at the time the App was initially introduced 
or subsequently upon the introduction of the DPA 2018 in respect of the 
processing of personal information and special category data via use of 
the App, and specifically: 
 
Section 35(1) 
 
It is acknowledged that the App had initially been requested by a specific 
cadre of officers. However, whilst it was technically possible for the App to 
have been assigned to a limited number of officers, which would have 
limited the scope of the processing of personal information and special 
category data, Sussex Police chose not to do so, instead making the App 
available to all staff members. It was stated that a total of 1,015 staff 
members had downloaded the App and as at 27 April 2021, in excess of 
202,000 recordings of telephone conversations had been automatically 
saved onto their mobile devices. It is considered highly likely that the App 
captured a variety of data, including sensitive personal data, across a 

 

1 

broad range of topics. It is not known how many of the call recordings 
relate solely to law enforcement matters. The collection of the data is 
considered to be unfair and unlawful; and not in all cases strictly 
necessary for the purposes of law enforcement.   
 
No adequate risk assessment has been undertaken in respect of intended 
processing of personal information at the time the App was initially made 
available. From the evidence provided, it was unclear how the App had 
been approved for release as there was no documentation available for 
this. Devices onto which the App was downloaded and activated captured 
calls indiscriminately and without the knowledge of affected data subjects. 
The processing is considered to have been unnecessary and could have 
been avoided if Sussex Police had taken steps to limit use of the App and, 
where it was considered necessary and proportionate for deployment, to 
have ensured that the personal data and sensitive personal data captured 
was achieved in a compliant and lawful way. 
 
The list of available Apps was not routinely reviewed and no specific 
review took place in preparation for a Forces-wide platform change in 
November 2017. Following the platform change, Apps were not 
automatically populated onto refreshed mobile devices and required 
manual addition by individual officers. This is considered to represent a 
missed opportunity to have reviewed how personal information was being 
processed and retained as a result of use of the App. 
 
Additionally, no review of the App’s availability or the resultant processing 
of personal information took place when the DPA 2018 was introduced. 
This is considered to be a further missed opportunity to have ensured that 
processing being undertaken was in compliance with the newly 
implemented legislation. This is of particular concern given the enhanced 
rights afforded to data subjects under the new legislation. 
 
No adequate instruction or guidance was provided by Sussex Police to 
inform staff how the App functioned or to ensure processing was 
compliant with its responsibilities as a data controller; or that officers 
were aware that use of the App constituted processing of personal 
information under data protection legislation. 
 
The use of the App breached the Forces-issued Electronic Devices policy 
by using an App to “record notes or other investigative details”. However 
it is noted that no policy of this type was in place when the App was first 
made available in late 2016. The lack of adequate oversight of the 
processing of personal information by officers using an approved App is 
considered to be a failure by Sussex Police, as a responsible data 
controller, to ensure that processing was compliant with the DPA 2018. 
 

 

2 

Evidence provided during the ICO’s investigation indicated that many of 
the officers who had downloaded and activated the App were unaware 
that all calls would be recorded. Recordings were saved locally on devices 
and were therefore not automatically backed-up, nor was information 
retained if devices were lost or damaged which would result in the devices 
being remotely wiped. This calls into question whether all personal 
information processed during the period the App was in use has been 
appropriately disclosed as evidential material. This is considered to 
represent the potential for impact to prosecutions and/or criminal 
proceedings which would result in potential detriment to affected data 
subjects. However no evidence was presented to indicate that information 
contained within the calls would have altered criminal case conclusions.  
 
Section 45(1) 
 
Due to the length of time the App was in use the exact amount of 
personal information and special category data processed is unknown. It 
is therefore impossible to accurately assess the number of data subjects 
affected by the App usage. On the balance of probabilities it is considered 
likely to be a significant number across a broad range of categories, 
including victims, witnesses, and perpetrators of suspected crimes.  
 
Data subjects were not informed that their telephone calls were being 
recorded resulting in them being denied the opportunity to exercise their 
rights of access under the DPA 2018. These include the right to object to 
the recording; to otherwise complain; to ensure accuracy of retained 
information; to request rectification and/or erasure; or to exercise their 
right of access to personal information in order to obtain transcripts or 
copies of recordings. On the balance of probabilities it is considered likely 
that some affected data subjects would have chosen to exercise such 
rights, had they been aware that processing was taking place. The lack of 
transparency and fair processing by Sussex Police denied data subjects 
the right to do so. This is considered to be evidence of a lack of 
appropriate consideration by Sussex Police to the rights afforded to data 
subjects under the DPA 2018. 
 
Other compliance concerns 
 
The ICO’s investigation identified other compliance concerns that are not 
subject to the corrective measure being imposed: 
 
Every call made from or received by devices onto which the App had been 
downloaded and activated was recorded. As stated above, it is considered 
highly likely that the App captured a variety of data, including sensitive 
personal data, across a broad range of topics. This is considered to be 
evidence of an infringement of section 35(4) of the DPA 2018 which 
states that “Personal data collected for any of the law enforcement 

 

3 

purposes may not be processed for a purpose that is not a law 
enforcement purpose unless the processing is authorised by law.” 

 

The retention of call recordings on officers’ mobile devices was not subject 
to any review or oversight by Sussex Police prior to the matter being 
identified as a compliance failure. This is considered to be evidence of an 
infringement of section 37 of the DPA 2018 which states that “personal 
data processed for any of the law enforcement purposes must be 
adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose for which 
it is processed.” 

 

Furthermore, prior to the matter being identified as a compliance failure, 
the recordings were retained until such time as the individual device was 
remotely wiped, either as a result of device refresh/upgrade or following 
the device being reported as lost or stolen. This is considered to be 
evidence of an infringement of section 39(1) of the DPA 2018 which 
states that “personal data processed for any of the law enforcement 
purposes must be kept for no longer than is necessary for the purpose for 
which it is processed.” This is also considered to be evidence of an 
infringement of section 39(2) which states that “Appropriate time limits 
must be established for the periodic review of the need for the continued 
storage of personal data for any of the law enforcement purposes.” 
 
Risk assessments undertaken on other previously approved Apps as part 
of remedial action following the ICO’s investigation of this matter 
identified an additional App which processed personal information. A 
subsequently undertaken Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) 
identified elements of risk and compliance failure. This is considered to be 
evidence of an infringement of section 40 of the DPA 2018 which states 
that “personal data processed for any of the law enforcement purposes 
must be so processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of 
the personal data, using appropriate technical or organisational measures 
(and, in this principle, “appropriate security” includes protection against 
unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, 
destruction or damage).” 
 
While it is acknowledged that the App was downloaded onto officially 
provided encrypted mobile devices, evidence was provided during the 
investigation to indicate that copies of call recordings had been manually 
transferred onto removable media. This raises concerns regarding the 
ongoing security of the personal information and special category data 
contained within the recordings, once transferred from the encrypted 
device. This is considered to be evidence of a further infringement of 
section 40 of the DPA 2018. 
 
 

 

 

4 

Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that the original 
rationale for making the App available was that some form of recording 
software was required to support critical operational policing and it is 
acknowledged that the App was likely to be beneficial under certain 
circumstances. However no adequate consideration of compliance with 
data protection legislation had been undertaken prior to making the App 
available to officers. If this consideration had been given, it is likely that 
risks could have been mitigated.  
 
Remedial steps taken by Sussex Police 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Sussex Police in the light of this incident. In particular that a 
Gold Group, chaired by an Assistant Chief Constable, was promptly 
formed upon identification of the matter. In addition, the App has been 
withdrawn from use and recordings, other than those submitted to the 
Crown Prosecution Service or otherwise considered to be evidential 
material, were promptly destroyed. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to the Chief Constable of Sussex Police in relation to 
the alleged infringements of sections 35(1) and 45(1) of the DPA 2018 set 
out above. 
 
The ICO considered notifying the Chief Constable of Sussex Police of its 
intention to impose an administrative penalty in the amount of £1.0 
million. However, since June 2022 the ICO has adopted a revised 
approach to public sector enforcement and, on this occasion, we have 
decided not to impose an administrative penalty.1 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that the Chief Constable of Sussex Police 
should take certain steps to ensure its compliance with the DPA 2018. 
With particular reference to sections 35(1) and 45(1) of the DPA 2018, 
the following steps are recommended: 
 
1.  The consideration and deployment of any new Apps should be 

assessed by a specific team with adequate and appropriate 
consideration given to the method and means of processing, and any 
affects this will have on data subject rights.   

1 ICO sets out revised approach to public sector enforcement | ICO. 

 

 

5 

 

2.  The above process should be documented and authorised at 

appropriate level, with remedial action taken to ensure the 
processing is compliant with current legislation prior to the App being 
deployed.  
 

3.  Adequate instruction and guidance should be issued to staff in 

respect of the use of any App, with officers required to confirm that 
issued instruction and guidance has been read and understood in 
order for Sussex Police to be satisfied that officers are aware of their 
compliance responsibilities during App usage. 

In light of this incident, review existing policies and procedures to 
ensure that adequate consideration has been given to data subject 
rights during the processing of personal information and special 
category data. Policies and procedures that are applicable across 
multiple Forces should be clearly marked as such, and responsibilities 
defined for the routine review and uplift, if required, of content. 

In light of this incident, conduct a review of the content of data 
protection training, particularly that in respect of law enforcement 
processing, to ensure sufficient prominence is given to the 
requirement for consideration of data subject rights. 
 

The Commissioner requires the Chief Constable of Sussex Police to 
provide details of the actions taken to address the above 
recommendations within three months of receipt of this reprimand, and 
by no later than 4 July 2023. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 

6 

