1/6

 File No.: EXP202101893

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The entity EXPLOTACIONES TURÍSTICAS A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the part
claimant) on August 27, 2021 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against C. P. B.B.B. with
NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed part). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows:

“I denounce the installation and bad manipulation of the images by the
community, they are going to claim that we are uncivil people when we are the
tourist guide of the tourist complex since what they want is that we cannot
exercise our legal activity in said complex and we do not know the name of the company
of said cameras and where the control of the cameras is in a bungalow of a
owner who does not even belong to the board of said community. I hope solution
urgent tion since there are cameras that overlook the street, the community pool and areas
private” (folio nº 1).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
date 09/10/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
cough in the data protection regulations.

No response has been received to this letter, nor has any clarification been made to this
Agency on the facts described.

THIRD: On November 17, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: On January 5, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 01/20/22 a written statement is received from the respondent
stating the following:

“At the Ordinary Meeting of February 23, 2019, the owners were informed
installation of the cameras, of the common spaces that filter

of

the

rivers

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

ma, and the adequacy through mask filters of the private areas that can
they would stay in the recording area. (Annex III). The facility was established
by 8 cameras distributed in the two entrances to the complex, corridors, swimming pool
and solarium, facilities and machinery rooms, pool machinery room,
na, reception (out of use), gardens and non-passable roofs and cistern.
Likewise, informative posters were placed in a sufficiently visible place, so
all in the (...)

In this sense we have to show our discrepancy because said photograph
It is NOT included in the Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure (...) what pro-
leads to a defenselessness to the Community of owners (...)

As has already been explained, the cameras exclusively collect the accesses in
the circumstances allowed by the LPH and provided with the respective computerized posters.
vos, corridors and transit areas, as well as the pool where it is also placed
the corresponding informative poster.

 

The complainant is missing the truth, since the video surveillance system is made up of
baby
In addition to the cameras, two recorders that are located in the room
to the facilities, as well as in the reception area (closed and in disuse). A.M-
Both locals are locked with a key that is exclusively available to the Admi-
nistrator the President of the Community. Not being true, therefore, their “du-
you give” about it.

For all of the above REQUESTS: The allegations presented are accepted

and proceed to the closing/Filing of the File that begins (...)”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim presented in this Agency by
through which certain "irregularities" are transferred in the video surveillance system
installed, as well as the absence of poster(s) duly informed.

Second. The entity Community Pro-
owners B.B.B. which denies the exposed facts.

Third. There is evidence of the presence of various informative posters indicating
that it is a video-monitored area adapted to the regulations in force.

Evidence is provided (Annex IV) that confirms the presence of various
posters throughout the complex informing "Video surveillance area" with the indication of the
responsible and the way to exercise the rights within the framework of the current RGPD.

Fourth. The approval of the installation of the system by the Community is accredited.
ownership of owners providing a copy of the Ordinary Act where such aspect is expressed.
to (Annex II).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the merits of the matter, the respondent files a Complaint for indepen- dence
fension by not transferring the evidence provided by the claimant.

Remember that article 53 Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides: 1. In addition to the
rest of the rights provided for in this Law, those interested in an administrative procedure
treatment have the following rights:

Likewise, they will also have the right to access and obtain a copy of the documents

ments contained in the aforementioned procedures”

Therefore, any person who is a party to an administrative procedure has
right to consult the status of the procedure and obtain a copy of any documents
all the file exists.

The right is not exercised before this Agency in a timely manner and therefore
no defenselessness, nor any reproach can be exercised before it, being a
right of the interested party in the procedure, which he has not exercised, so it is appropriate
dismiss the complaint filed.

III

In the present case, the claim dated 08/27/21 is examined by me-
gave from which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“presence of a video surveillance camera system that lacks information

mation in legal form” (folio nº1).

The complaining party provides documentary evidence (Annex I Photograph) that
accredits the presence of various cameras, as well as the presence of an informative poster
tive although crossed out in its informative sections.

Reporting on video surveillance according to RGPD is an obligation contained in our
legislative framework -art. 13 GDPR-.

In accordance with the aforementioned article, the person responsible for the “processing” provides you with
You will see all the information listed below:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
tant;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment; (...).

To adapt to current regulations, the AEPD published the new mandatory poster
river that must be located in spaces that are subject to video surveillance.

Article 22 section 4 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides:

  “The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing a computerized device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment
to, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this information
tion”.

IV

The party claimed responds to the Initiation Agreement of this body on 01/20/22
denying the facts object of the claim.

Confirms that the installation of the camera system was approved at the Ordinary Meeting.
ria of the Community on 12/16/2006, being ratified on the date
04/07/18 unanimously by the owners of the property.

There is evidence of the presence of an informative poster(s) in the visible information area.
control that it is a video-monitored area, adapted to the regulations in force
(GDPR).

Throughout the complex there are various signs informing that it is
a video-monitored area, declining the accusation of the claimant party before the evidence
bas presented by the claimed party in the exercise of his right to defense.

When installing security cameras in neighboring communities, it is necessary
that the Community of Neighbors has the favorable vote of 3/5 of the total
ownership of the owners who in turn represent 3/5 of the share quotas.
cipation as developed in article 17.1 of the Horizontal Property Law.

Provided screen impression (s) of the same, no uptake of
public space, limiting the collection to the area of the complex according to the purpose
protection of this type of system.

The camera that obtains images of the pool area is at a distance
enough to control the space, but not invade the privacy of the users of the
itself, not being infrequent the control of said area for reasons of security or bad
use of the complex facilities, so the measure is considered in any case
provided without further evaluation elements in this regard.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Regarding the purpose of the images by the claimed party, it is put forward
manifested certain "uncivic" conduct of the complaining party, being admissible that it be
use the images of the system as a means of proof in their case to prove the
authorship of the facts that are recorded with them, deciding the validity of the
same in the appropriate judicial instances.

It is not up to this Agency to enter into matters of greater complexity
civil law, such as some of those exposed by the claimant, which must, where appropriate, address
be examined in the appropriate judicial instances if deemed necessary.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations is conditioned to the game of the test and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which, in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

In accordance with the allegations set forth and the extensive evidence provided by the
claimed, no irregularity is found in the system that is the subject of the claim,
reason why it is appropriate to order the Archive of this procedure.

The importance of the rights at stake in the matter that concerns us is recalled.
occupies, and must avoid instrumentalizing this Agency for "personal" matters
far from the framework of data protection or, where appropriate, prosecutable in the
timely court cases.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of any administrative infraction in the matter that concerns us.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to C. P. B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-150222

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

