

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the legal title for the processing of personal data as part of the fulfillment of obligations under § 2 and § 8, paragraph 3 of Act No. 253/2008 Coll., in the matter of politically exposed persons (UOOU-02940 /20)
Company


Control
was initiated based on the initiatives of persons who are politically exposed in
pursuant to Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of income from
criminal activities and terrorist financing. Persons have received notice that
their personal data will be processed by the controlled person for the purpose of fulfillment
obligations according to § 2 and § 8 paragraph 3 of Act No. 253/2008 Coll., in particular the finding
and recording,
whether the person is not a politically exposed person, whether the Czech Republic is against him
applies international sanctions under Act No. 69/2006 Coll., on implementation
international sanctions, and whether data on politically exposed persons are kept
in national sanctions lists.

The inspectors found that the inspected person is not
mandatory in the case of processing personal data of politically exposed persons
a person within the meaning of § 2 of Act No. 253/2008 Coll. Obliged persons listed in § 2
Act No. 253/2008 Coll. process personal data of politically exposed persons on
based on the fulfillment of a legal obligation according to Article 6 letter c) general
ordinance.

In the conclusion of the inspection report, the Authority stated that
the controlled person processes personal data without proper legal title in
within the meaning of Article 6 of the General Regulation. Submitted by the person under review on December 22, 2020
objections to control findings, which the Chairman of the Office in handling objections
rejected in full.

Administrative proceedings were initiated against the controlled person in
the matter of imposing measures to correct the identified deficiencies. That was accomplished.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Non-profit sector > Inspection of the legal title for the processing of personal data as part of the fulfillment of obligations according to § 2 and § 8 paragraph 3 of Act No. 253/2008 Coll., in the matter of politically exposed persons (UOOU-02940/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



