1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00351/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before Mr.
A.A.A., by virtue of a claim filed by G. DE LA GUARDIA CIVIL -
PUESTO P. DE OLEIROS (hereinafter, the claimant) on its own initiative and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim filed by the claimant has an entry dated 18
May 2018 at the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

  The claim is directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are that after appearing at the
farm owned by the defendant, the presence of "a video camera-
surveillance on top of a pole, about five meters high” with alleged
orientation towards public space without just cause.

Along with the written complaint, documentary evidence is provided (Doc. numbers 1
and 2) that prove the presence of the camera on top of a post, with presumed
orientation towards public space.

SECOND: In view of the known data, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection
of Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, in accordance with the power recognized
in art. 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data and
which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation)
(hereinafter GDPR).

THIRD
 : On 06/28/2018 the claim was transferred to the person in charge
 
identified by the Civil Guard, so that it could allege in Law what it deems
timely in relation to the presumed irregularity of the installed system.

FOURTH: On 07/18/2018, a written statement of allegations is received electronically
of the Lawyer Don B.B.B., although in the computer system there is no evidence provided
any documentation.

On 08/08/18, a "correction" of the submitted brief was requested, requiring
to the denounced party to provide additional documentation on the system
installed, without any response being produced in a timely manner.

FIFTH: On 11/14/2018, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 5 of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 82.5 a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

SIXTH: On 11/22/18, this body received written allegations from the
legal representative of the accused party stating the following:

“The request was answered in a timely manner. In this regard we must
indicate that this statement is NOT correct because the prior requirement of
information was presented in a timely manner.

Due to the above, I REQUEST that, having submitted this document with the
attached documentation, please admit it, consider formulated the allegations that
above (...) and by virtue thereof, proceed to the File of this procedure (...)”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 05/18/18, this body received a COMPLAINT from the Guard
Civil by means of which it transfers as main fact:

that can be seen in one of the corners of the farm the installation of a

“
video-surveillance camera on a mast about five meters high” (folio nº 1).

SECOND: It is identified as the main person in charge of the installation Mr.
A.A.A.

THIRD: It is accredited in the computer system of this body the transfer
of the claim to the accused party on 06/28/2018.

FOURTH: It is accredited that a correction was requested by this body
to the respondent on 08/08/2018, when submitting the pleadings brief for
error or omission empty of content.

FIFTH: The installation of a video-surveillance system has been accredited,
composed of two chambers in the building located at ***ADDRESS.1.

SIXTH: It is accredited that the video-surveillance system has the mandatory
informative poster, indicating the person in charge to whom you can contact to exercise
the corresponding rights.

SEVENTH: It is proven that the reported camera only obtains images of the
interior of the farm, property of the accused party, having the
corresponding privacy mask that limits its vision.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, in accordance with the provisions of section 2 of article 56 in relation to the
section 1 f) of article 57, both of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of
these data (hereinafter GDPR); and in article 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
digital (hereinafter LOPDGDD)

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the Complaint forwarded by the Forces and
State Security Corps (General Directorate of the Civil Guard-Company A
Coruña) on 05/18/2018 by means of which it transfers as main event:

"that can be seen in one of the corners of the farm the installation of
a video-surveillance camera on a mast about five meters high” (folio no.
1).

The facts are not denied by the accused party who in writing of
allegations dated 11/22/2018 states that it has two cameras facing the
inside your private home.

“The cameras installed are solid and, although the installation took advantage of the
existing material on the property, they have telemetry disconnected, so
such that it is no longer possible to ZOOM, nor is the zoom option enabled.
movement (…)"

“The camera located in the back of the house (cam 2) is in a
area of vegetation so it has been raised on a staff to achieve the effectiveness
necessary (...)”

Along with your pleadings brief, you provide documentary evidence (photographs no.
4,5 6) that prove what was stated, being the images of the interior of their property
private.

After analyzing the remaining allegations, the system has the mandatory poster
information at the access door, as well as being registered in the General Registry of
body for the appropriate legal purposes.

Article 4 section 3 of Instruction 1/2006 (AEPD) provides the following:

“Cameras and video cameras installed in private spaces may not
obtain images of public spaces unless it is essential for the
surveillance purpose that is intended, or it is impossible to avoid it by reason of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

location of those. In any case, any data processing should be avoided.
unnecessary for the intended purpose.

So that individuals can install video-surveillance systems in
your particular property, although it must be adapted to the requirements
established in the current legal provisions.

Cameras installed by individuals cannot obtain images of
public space, as this task is reserved for the Security Forces and Bodies,
adopting the necessary measures so that the system focuses on the control
of your private property.

III

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the same of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal
or administrative (TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in
any of its manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
contradictory procedure in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV

According to what has been argued, after analyzing the evidence presented, it is
conclude that the installed system complies with current legislation, not obtaining the
same images of the public highway.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

The mere external visualization of the camera does not imply, as has been
accredited, that it obtained images of the public space, having adopted the
responsible for it the necessary measures to focus the objective on its
private space, for security purposes of the property and its belongings.

Based on the above,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to decree the FILE of this procedure
administrative as the commission of any administrative infraction is not accredited.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don A.A.A. and, according to art. 77.2
of the RGPD, proceed to INFORM the complaining party-GENERAL MANAGEMENT
CIVIL GUARD (COMPANY OF A CORUÑA POSITION P. DE OLEIROS -) on the
result of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 114.1 c) of
the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

