publication of
29th activity report 2019

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
presents the results of his work in 2019

Press Release – Page 1/5
Munich, May 25, 2020

Since May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation and the
new Bavarian data protection law. At the end of 2018 had
not only most citizens, but also the state
chen and municipal authorities in the Free State first experiences with the
collected new law. The year 2019 was marked by a consolidation
Lidation and Differentiation: Old data protection problems presented themselves
against the background of the changed legal framework, previously unknown
te problems arose. This is how the data protection work of my
listen to the level of detail. This is also shown in the 29th activity report. He employs
deals with fundamental questions, but also illuminates general
Day situations from Bavarian town halls and district offices, schools
or police inspections.

Several legislative projects had to be accompanied from the point of view of data protection. In the
department of the Ministry of Education, for example, were
Regulation important data protection regulations bundled and partially
recast; There were also changes in the Bavarian law
about the education and teaching system, in the teacher service regulations
and the preparatory college regulations (article no. 10.1). In the judiciary
I got involved with a regulation project regarding the inspection of notarial
elle documents for research purposes (article no. 4.1). At the evaluation
of the new police task law (PAG) I was part of the so-called
PAG support committee involved (article no. 1.3).

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from May 25th, 2020 – page 2/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed

My office received many submissions from citizens
to process inquiries from Bavarian public authorities
and was not always able to look back on many years of consulting
resort to practice. Rather, new solutions often had to be developed
kick.

On the fundamental issues – a first focus of my
activity report – includes, for example, the identification of data subjects
the assertion of data subject rights. Here were recommendations
to formulate terms that do not make it unnecessarily
serious, rights to information or correction
to claim against a person responsible, but at the same time guarantee
that not - especially with the right to information - data worthy of protection
unauthorized third parties (article no. 2.2). From more fundamental
Also important are the questions of whether the staff council – in an authority
the counterpart to the works council - is an independent responsible person,
and whether a member of this body is also an official data protection
can be commissioned. I have worked out a solution here which
Work of the staff council is affected as little as possible, but data
property rights requirements (articles no. 9.5 and 9.6). A
seemingly "small" but also fundamental problem
a contribution to employee photos for marketing measures more public
Place. This is about, among other things, the data protection literature a lot
discussed question of the relationship between (art) copyright and data
property right. I stand by any use of employee photos in this
Criticism of context (article no. 9.7).

Another focus of my activity report is - as in
previous reporting years – data protection issues of municipal
xis. This year I have the data protection background of the treatment
development of building matters in the municipal council is systematically examined; I hope,
that this sharpens the sensitivity in many places and leads to a data protection
correct preparation and implementation of committee meetings
(Contribution No. 5.1). When using video technology in citizens’ meetings
I am in favor of restrictive handling (contribution
No. 5.2). Since I have received a number of inquiries on the subject
"Whistleblower protection" by authorities, I have tips from

Press release from May 25th, 2020 – page 3/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed

updated and expanded in accordance with previous activity reports (Article No. 5.3).
Discussions on IT outsourcing are not yet over
municipal area. I have my current position here over-
visibly compiled (article no. 6.3).

In the area of social and health administration, data
protection issues of the COVID-19 pandemic have not yet been taken into account.
A contribution to data flows from the police to health authorities
concerns information for the implementation of the Bavarian Mental Health
Assistance Act (Article No. 7.1). Another also appreciates data flows
Contribution to the relationship between social authorities and public prosecutors
(Contribution No. 8.3). I also have a privacy-friendly
Proposed solution for the cooperation of clinics and hospital
pastoral caregivers when passing on patient data (article
No. 7.2) and the topic of "whistle-blower protection" also for the area of
youth welfare offices in connection with child welfare
attacked (article no. 8.2).

A third focus of my activity report this year is attached
technical and organizational issues, with a fundamental one
Contribution to the topic "Artificial Intelligence" is the focus. The
This contribution attempts to cover numerous facets of this complex subject
orient and the state of development in Bavaria as well as data protection
to identify any need for action (article no. 12.1). Over and beyond
I report on my work in the field of "data protection
gene assessment” (Article No. 12.2) and give in particular Bavarian
Authorities practical advice on how to prevent intrusion
of malware in IT systems (article no. 12.3) or for monitoring
of processors for remote access (Article No. 12.6).

Since the General Data Protection Regulation requires a notification of violations
introduced regulations for the protection of personal data
I receive corresponding messages every day, which in numerous cases
take data protection measures. A small ex-
Article no. 12.7 describes the choice of such cases.

Press release from May 25th, 2020 – page 4/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed

In the year under review, I significantly expanded my range of IT
materials. For citizens in particular, the new
The free book "My data, the administration and I"
thought. Several new orientations are aimed particularly at authorities
ment aids - such as the right to information and the obligation to report and
Obligation to notify in the event of data security breaches -, further
numerous working papers and current short information (overview
in article no. 2.1).

Overall, the 29th activity report shows that data protection is a very
side matter.

The workload can only be managed with a well-organized personnel
mastered who has legal as well as technical and organizational
has satirical expertise to process submissions in a qualified manner
as well as to be able to give well-founded advice to citizens and authorities. In
my office are numerous experienced speakers
pensions, who come from a large number of different Bavarian
official authorities came to me and there after a few years
also return again. Each and every one of them brings its own
administrative practice with; this administrative practice is often indispensable in order to
Adequately locate data protection problems in technical contexts
and be able to solve. This "built-in" external expertise
contributes significantly to the high quality of the work in my office. Simultaneously
each of my speakers learns during the
Time "in data protection" a lot about its legal, technical
and organizational aspects. Many fruits of this learning process are reaping
later the home authority. And that's a good thing - it just can't be done
describe more in my activity report.

I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank all my speakers
to thank the speakers for their tireless and competent commitment,
but at the same time their home authorities for their willingness to accept my business
post by posting employees
to support consistently. This willingness is a necessary
tion for the success of data protection in Bavaria.

Press release from May 25th, 2020 – page 5/5
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed

I submitted the 29th activity report to Ilse Aigner, President of the State Parliament.
enough (photos on my homepage https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de
under "Press - Press Gallery" and on the homepage of the Bavarian
Landtag https://www.bayern.landtag.de under “Aktuelles – Presse –
press photos").

The 29th activity report 2019 is now on my homepage
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de under "Activity Reports" available.
However, it can also be obtained in paper form free of charge from my office
be obtained.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

