DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 

(PART 6, SECTION 149) 

 

ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 
 
To:   The Crown Prosecution Service 
 
Of:   102 Petty France, London, SW1H 9EA 
 
1. 

The  Crown  Prosecution  Service  ("CPS")  is  a  “controller”  as 
variously defined in sections 3(6) and 32 of the Data Protection Act 
2018 (“DPA 2018”).  The CPS prosecutes criminal cases that have 
been 
investigative 
organisations in England and Wales. 

the  police  and  other 

investigated  by 

 
2. 

 
3. 

4. 

The  Information  Commissioner  (“the  Commissioner”)  hereby 
issues  CPS  with  an  Enforcement  Notice  under  section  149  DPA 
2018. The Notice is in relation to a contravention of the sixth data 
protection  principle  set  out  in  section  40  DPA  2018.  This  Notice 
would accordingly be issued under section 149(2)(a) DPA 2018. 

This  Notice  explains  the  Commissioner’s  decision  to  take 
enforcement action.  The specific steps that CPS is required to take 
are set out in Annex 1. 
 
The Commissioner has previously served CPS with a Preliminary 
Enforcement Notice ("the PEN") dated 4th July 2023.  CPS provided 
its written representations ("the Representations") in response to 
the  PEN  on  26th  July  2023.    The  Commissioner  has  taken  into 
account the entirety of the Representations when deciding to issue 

 
 

       
 

 
1 

  

 

this  Notice  and  refers  to  the  Representations  below  when 
appropriate. 
 
Legal framework for this Notice 
 
DPA 2018 contains various enforcement powers in Part 6, which 
are exercisable by the Commissioner. 

Section 149 DPA 2018 materially provides: 
 
“(1) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that a person has failed, 
or  is  failing,  as  described  in  subsection  (2),  (3),  (4)  or  (5),  the 
Commissioner  may  give  the  person  a  written  notice  (an 
“enforcement notice”) which requires the person— 
 

(a) to take steps specified in the notice, or 
(b) to refrain from taking steps specified in the notice, 
 

or both (and see also sections 150 and 151).  
 
(2) The first type of failure is where a controller or processor has 
failed, or is failing, to comply with any of the following— 
 

(a)  a  provision  of  …  Chapter  2  of  Part  3  …  of  this  Act 
(principles of processing); 

… 
 (6) An enforcement notice given in reliance on subsection (2), (3) 
or  (5)  may  only  impose  requirements  which  the  Commissioner 
considers appropriate for the purpose of remedying the failure.” 
 
Section 150 DPA 2018 materially provides: 
 

       
 

 
2 

  

 

5. 

 
6. 

 

7. 

 
 

“(1) An enforcement notice must— 

(a) state what the person has failed or is failing to do, and 
(b)  give  the  Commissioner’s  reasons  for  reaching  that 
opinion. 

 
(2) In deciding whether to give an enforcement notice in reliance 
on section 149(2), the Commissioner must consider whether the 
failure  has  caused  or  is  likely  to  cause  any  person  damage  or 
distress. 
 
… 
 
(4) An enforcement notice may specify the time or times at which, 
or period or periods within which, a requirement imposed by the 
notice  must  be  complied  with  (but  see  the  restrictions  in 
subsections (6) to (8)).” 

By  reason  of  section  34(3)  DPA  2018,  the  controller  shall  be 
responsible for, and to be able to demonstrate compliance with the 
sixth data protection principle in section 40 DPA 2018. 

 ("

Background 
 
On 18th March 2018 a CPS 
") copied 
a  CPS  case  file  case  concerning  historic  child  abuse  from  a  CPS 
computer system onto an unencrypted personal USB device.  The 
 did this with the intention of passing the device to a colleague 
 used the 
who would be dealing with the case.  Therefore, the 
USB  device  for  CPS  business  and  for  the  discharge  of  his 
 was 
employment duties.  As such, at all material times the 
acting on behalf of CPS.   

 

 
8. 

 

9. 

 
 

       
 

 
3 

  

 

10.  The  Representations  challenged  the  Commissioner's  finding  that 
  used  the  USB  device  for  CPS  business  and  for  the 
the 
 purportedly 
discharge of his employment duties, due to the 
contravening the CPS Electronic Media Policy that was in force at 
the relevant time and because the 
 purportedly acted on his 
own  volition  and  not  in  discharge  of  his  employment  duties, 
because there was no requirement for him to provide the case file 
to his colleague who had similar access rights to the CPS computer 
system and who would therefore have been able to access it via 
their own account/device. 

 
11.  There 

is  nothing 

in  the  Representations  that  cause  the 
Commissioner  to  alter  his  findings  in  paragraph  9  and  not  to 
proceed with this Notice. When initially downloading the material 
to  the  portable  media  device in  performing  his  actions,  the 
 
accessed the information as part of his role and his actions were 
not of a nature that break the usual responsibility that a controller 
has  for  its  employees  –  the  individual  was  initially  seeking  to 
provide  information  to  a  colleague  for  a  legitimate  business 
purpose. The Commissioner has considered the CPS Investigation 
Report  written  by 
the 
Commissioner's  findings  in  this  regard.  For  example,  The 
Investigation Report expressed the finding at paragraph 5.2 that "I 
do not believe that [the 
's] intentions went beyond a desire to 
 in a manner convenient to 
share material with another 
himself  to  help  in  the  presentation  and  preparation  of  the 
case."  Furthermore, there is no evidence that the 
 was aware 
of the CPS’ Electronic Media Policy or trained on it. 

  which  supports 

 

 
12.  The  Commissioner  is  not  satisfied  that  there  were  appropriate 
technical or organisational measures in place to prevent the 
 
from downloading sensitive data to a portable media device, or that 

 
 

       
 

 
4 

  

 

 in this regard. As the 

there was sufficient awareness of controller’s expectations of the 
 had been erroneously included in 
an  Active  Directory  Group,  encryption  software  had  not  been 
downloaded to the individual’s device, meaning that data was able 
to be downloaded to a self-procured USB without protections such 
as a means of preventing the USB’s ability to access / download 
material, or by the presence of encryption software.   

 
13.  For the avoidance of doubt, the USB device that the 

 copied 
the case file to was not provided for their use by CPS.  Instead, the 
USB device was provisioned by the 
 themself and belonged to 
them.  For the purpose of this Enforcement Notice, the provisioning 
of the USB device by the 

 is referred to as "self-procurement".   

 
14.  For the further avoidance of doubt, despite having a policy in place, 
it was clear in response to the Commissioner’s enquires that the 
self-procurement  of  USB  devices  by  CPS  staff  for  use  on  CPS 
business  was  a  practice  that  CPS  was  aware  of  but  was  not 
rigorously controlled through appropriate technical measures which 
would have reduced the prospect of a breach of this nature. 
 

15.  The  Representations  challenged  the  finding  referring  to  the 
Electronic  Media  Policy,  but  there 
is  nothing  within  the 
Representations that cause the Commissioner to alter his findings 
and to proceed with this Notice. The Commissioner refers to the 
audit  that  is  identified  at  paragraph  34(IV)  below  and  the 
information provided by the CPS in response to the Commissioner's 
investigation. 

 

16.  The  documents  that  were  copied  to  the  USB  device  included 
medical  and  social  care  records  of  the  complainant  in  the  case; 
police records including the incident log and investigation reports; 

 
 

       
 

 
5 

  

 

the  record  of  interview  of  the  defendant;  witness  names  and 
addresses;  instructions  to  the 
  and  related 
information;  and  other  sensitive  documents.  These 
case 
documents contained personal data, including personal data of the 
highest sensitivity, the processing of which is regulated by Part 3 
DPA 2018. The personal data related to approximately ten persons.   

 
17.  None  of  the  documents  containing  the  personal  data  were 

encrypted when stored on the USB device. 

 
18.  The  documents  were  held  by  CPS  for  the  purposes  of  the 
prosecution of a criminal offence or offences, the trial of which took 
place after the coming into force of DPA 2018 on 25 May 2018 ("the 
commencement date" for the Act). The processing of at least some 
of these documents constituted "sensitive processing" within the 
meaning of section 35 DPA 2018. 

 
19.  For  the  purposes  of  Part  3  DPA  2018,  CPS  is  a  "competent 
authority" within the meaning of section 30. Part 3 applied to the 
processing  of  the  personal  data  within  the  documents  from  the 
commencement  date.    Prior  to  the  commencement  date,  the 
processing was regulated by the Data Protection Act 1998 ("DPA 
1998"). 

 

20.  The 

 did not hand-over possession of the USB device to their 
colleague,  but  instead  retained  possession  of  it  with  the  CPS 
documents stored thereon, until a precise date that is unknown to 
the Commissioner, but is believed on the balance of probabilities 
 gave possession of 
to have been in August 2018, when the 
the USB device to their 
 could 
load onto it a 

, so that the 

 video.   

 

 
 

       
 

 
6 

  

 

21.  The  trial  of  the  case  to  which  the  documents  and  personal  data 
 and concluded later that 

related commenced on 
month with the conviction of the defendant. 

 
22.  On 27 November 2018 the 

 made contact with 
  about  the  USB  device,  having  viewed  some  of  the 

s 

the 
documents.   

 
23.  The 

  returned  the  USB  device  to  the 

  on  28 
November 2018. The 
 informed their manager at CPS of the 
incident  on  29  November  2018  and  handed-in  the  USB  device.  
Thereafter,  CPS  commenced  an  investigation  and  reported  the 
incident  as  a  personal  data  breach  to  the  Commissioner  on  4 
December 2018. CPS also communicated the fact of the breach to 
the impacted persons. 

 

24.  Following  the  reporting  of  the  breach,  the  Commissioner 

commenced an investigation.  The investigation found that: 
 

I.  The 

 was wrongly included in an Active Directory group of 
approximately 1,500 persons, which gave him the ability to 
download  a  large  volume  of  sensitive  personal  data  to  his 
personal,  unencrypted  USB  device,  without  appropriate 
controls being in place.  

II.  Some members of the Active Directory group were able to use 
USB  devices  without  the  forced  installation  and  use  of  CPS 
encryption software. 

III.  The CPS did not provide USB devices for its staff to use, but 
instead allowed a system of self-procurement of these devices 
by staff. 

IV.  The  use  of  self-procured  USB  devices  was  not  subject  to 

supervision by CPS or asset management. 

 
 

       
 

 
7 

  

 

V.  CPS considered that it would be a "considerable exercise" to 
ascertain how many members of the Active Directory group 
were  included  in  error,  so  it  could  not  provide  the 
Commissioner with this information, nor could it confirm how 
long people had been members of the group for. 

VI.  CPS considered that the management of portable media was 
"complex", which resulted in a far greater disparity than CPS 
would have expected between the number of users that had 
write access to data and the numbers that had licences to use 
encryption software. Of the approximately 1,500 members of 
the  Active  Directory  group,  only  800  had  access  to  CPS 
encryption software.  Therefore, it seems likely that not every 
member of the Active Directory group who had the capability 
to copy or download data to USB drives were able to encrypt 
such data. 
 

25.  The  Representations  challenged  the  accuracy  of  the  information 
now contained in 24.I. above.  The Commissioner accepts that due to 
the approach adopted for the use of gender pronouns in the PEN, there 
was  a  potential  for  it  to  convey  a  different  meaning  to  the  one 
intended  and  the  Commissioner's  understanding  of  the  evidence.  
Paragraph 24.I conveys the Commissioner's understanding and there 
is nothing in the Representations that causes him to alter his findings 
and not proceed with this Notice.   
 

26.  The Representations also challenged the Commissioner's findings 
now contained in paragraph 24.III, adopting the challenge made to 
paragraph  14.  As  such,  there  is  nothing  in  the  Representations  to 
cause the Commissioner to alter his findings and not proceed with this 
Notice. 

 

 
 

       
 

 
8 

  

 

27.  The Representations also challenged the Commissioner's findings 
in  paragraph  24.IV,  adopting  the  challenge  made  to  paragraph  14. 
The  Representations  also  claimed  that  the  CPS  understood  the 
importance of maintaining a comprehensive records of all approved 
use of  USBs.  However, during the course of the investigation, the 
CPS was asked about whether it maintained an asset register for USB 
devices. In response, the CPS stated that "USBs are not held on the 
register" and that "Asset Registers do not include USB devices".  The 
CPS also stated, in response to a question about self-procured USBs, 
that "due to this limited usage and only being available should other 
methods not be suitable, it is not appropriate per se to include them 
on an asset register, as they are immediately, after use, sent outside 
the organisation".  As such, there is nothing in the Representations to 
cause the Commissioner to alter his findings and not to proceed with 
this. 

 
The contravention 
 

28.  The  Commissioner  has  concluded  that  the  retention  of  the 
documents on the USB device by the 
 between 25 May 2018 
and August 2018, followed by the passing of possession of the USB 
 
device  with  the  documents  stored  thereon  to  the 
 followed by the viewing of some of the contents on the 
 constituted a personal data breach within 

's 

device by the 
the meaning of section 33 DPA 2018. 

 
29.  Furthermore, the Commissioner is of the view that the sixth data 
protection principle in section 40 DPA 2018 was contravened, due 
to  a  failure  of  CPS  to  implement  appropriate  technical  and 
organisational measures for the security of personal data. 

 

30.  Section 40 materially provides: 
 
9 

 
 

       
 

  

 

 

"The sixth data protection principle is that personal data 
processed for any of the law enforcement purposes must be so 
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the 
personal data, using appropriate technical or organisational 
measures (and, in this principle, “appropriate security” includes 
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and 
against accidental loss, destruction or damage)." 

 
31.  Moreover,  the  Commissioner  notes  the  requirements  of  section 

66(1) DPA 2018, which materially provides: 
 
"(1)  Each  controller  and  each  processor  must  implement 
appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  a 
level of security appropriate to the risks arising from the processing 
of personal data." 
 

32.  The Commissioner is of the view that section 40 was contravened, 

for the following reasons: 

 

I.  CPS  did  not 

implement  appropriate 

technical  and 
organisational  measures  for  the  management  of  the  Active 
Directory  group,  in  that  the 
  was included  in  the  Active 
Directory  group  in  error,  with  the  result  that  they  had 
permission to access and write personal data that they were 
not entitled to.  Furthermore, CPS was unable to provide an 
account of the extent of this problem, with the result that the 
Commissioner  considers  it  likely  that  other  persons  were 
wrongly  given  access  and  write  permissions  to  which  they 
were not entitled, or did not need. 

II.  CPS  did  not 

technical  and 
organisational  measures  for  the  provisioning  and  use  of 

implement  appropriate 

 
 

       
 

 
10 

  

 

portable media storage devices, in that due to it being aware 
of  the  use  of  self-procured  USBs  and  due  to  its  failure  to 
implement appropriate countermeasures to manage the risks 
involved in their use it allowed the 
 to self-procure and use 
USB  devices  for  the  storage  and  transportation  of  highly 
sensitive personal data in a manner that was free of any form 
of formal asset control by CPS, including registration of assets 
and  recording  of  their  use.  To  all  intents  and purposes,  the 
processing of the data on the 
's USB device was wholly 
ungoverned and free of supervision by CPS and had it not been 
for the responsible conduct of the 
 CPS would 
have remained unaware of the fact that a personal data breach 
had occurred.  In light of the foregoing, CPS did not implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to prevent, 
detect or respond to a personal data breach. 
implement  appropriate 

technical  and 
organisational measures for the encryption of highly sensitive 
personal data that were stored on the USB device.  

III.  CPS  did  not 

 

33.  The  Commissioner  is  also  of  the  view  that  CPS'  position  that  it 
would  be  a  "considerable  exercise"  to  ascertain  how  many 
members of the Active Directory group were included in error and 
its position that the management of portable media was "complex", 
which  resulted  in  a  far  greater  disparity  between  the  number  of 
users  that  had  write  access  to  data  and  the  numbers  that  had 
licences to use encryption software than CPS would have expected, 
is further evidence of a failure to implement appropriate technical 
and organisational measures for the security of personal data. 

 

 
 

Issue of the Notice 
 

       
 

 
11 

  

 

34.  The Commissioner considers that the contravention of DPA 2018 is 
a significant one that warrants enforcement action. His reasons for 
this conclusion include the following. 
 

I.  The personal data that were put at risk were of the highest 

sensitivity.   

II.  Due to the absence of appropriate technical and organisational 
measures,  the  personal  data  breach  would  have  gone 
undetected but for the actions of a member of the public. 

III.  The measures that should have been adopted for asset control 
and  encryption  are  basic  controls  for  the  use  of  portable 
storage media. 

IV.  CPS  has  rejected  both  the  Commissioner's  2019  Audit 
recommendation that it should procure portable media such 
as  USB  drives  for  use  by  its  staff,  instead  of  allowing  self-
procurement by staff, and the recommendation that records 
should be kept of their distribution, ownership and use. 

V.  Without enforcement action, the risks to personal data arising 
from the self-procurement of USB devices by CPS personnel, 
which  are  illuminated  by  the  personal  data  breach,  will  be 
unremedied. 

VI.  The  contravention  was  longstanding  and  pre-dated  the 

commencement date of DPA 2018. 

VII.  Since this incident, the CPS has reported further incidents to 
the ICO involving the loss of portable storage devices. The ICO 
therefore consider there to be an on-going issue with the use 
of such devices which needs to be addressed. 

 

35.  The  Representations  challenged  the  information  that  is  now 
contained  in  paragraph  34.III,  by  repeating  the  Representations 
made in challenge to paragraph 24.IV.  As such, they do not cause 

 
 

       
 

 
12 

  

 

the Commissioner to alter his findings and not proceed with this 
Notice. 
 

36.  The  Representations  challenged  the  information  that  is  now 
contained  in  paragraph  34.IV,  by  stating  the  rationale  for  the 
rejection of the Audit recommendations. The Commissioner relies 
on  that  rationale  in  support  of  his  findings  and  so  the 
Representations do not cause him to alter them and not proceed 
with this Notice.  
 

37.  The Representations challenged the information in the PEN that is 
contained  in  paragraph  34.V,  by  repeating  the  Representations 
made in challenge to paragraph 14.  As such, they do not cause 
the Commissioner to alter his findings and not proceed with this 
Notice. 
 

38.  The Commissioner therefore requires CPS to take the steps set out 

in Annex 1. 

 

39.  The Commissioner considered, as he is required to do under section 
150(2) DPA 2018 when deciding whether to serve an Enforcement 
Notice, whether any contravention has caused or is likely to cause 
any person damage or distress.  The Commissioner considers that 
there was clear potential for distress to have been suffered by the 
impacted data subjects, due to the overall context of the case and 
the nature of the data involved. 

 
40.  Moreover, CPS has also recognised that the personal data breach 
may  have  caused  significant  emotional  distress  to  those  data 
subjects. 

 

 
 

       
 

 
13 

  

 

41.  However,  the  Commissioner  considers  that  compliance  with  the 
provisions of DPA 2018 referred to above to be a matter of central 
importance to data protection law. Even if a failure to comply has 
not, or is not likely, to cause any person damage or distress, the 
issue  of  this  Enforcement  Notice  to  compel  compliance  would 
nonetheless  be  an  appropriate  exercise  of  the  Commissioner’s 
enforcement powers. 
 

42.  The Commissioner has considered whether it is practicable for CPS 
to comply with the requirements of Annex 1.  In this regard the 
Commissioner notes that the requirements are basic ones for the 
procurement, use and tracking of portable data storage media and 
they are proportionate to the facts in issue in this case.  

 
43.  Having regard to the significant nature of the contravention, the 
scale of the personal data being processed and the context in which 
it is processed, the Commissioner considers that this Enforcement 
Notice  is  a  proportionate  regulatory  step  to  bring  CPS  into 
compliance. 
 

44.  The  Commissioner  has  also  had  regard  to  the  desirability  of 
promoting economic growth, and the potential impact his Notice 
might  have.  The  Commissioner  considers 
the  proposed 
enforcement action is unlikely to have an impact on any measure 
of economic activity or growth in the UK. 
 
Terms of the Notice 
 

45.  The  Commissioner  therefore  exercises  his  powers  under  section 
149  DPA  2018  to  serve  an  Enforcement  Notice  requiring  CPS  to 
take specified steps to comply with the DPA 2018. The terms of the 
proposed Notice are set out in Annex 1 of this Notice. 

 
 

       
 

 
14 

  

 

 
 
 Consequences  of  failing  to  comply  with  an  Enforcement 
Notice. 
 
If  a  person  fails  to  comply  with  an  Enforcement  Notice  the 
Commissioner  may  serve  a  penalty  notice  on  that  person  under 
section  155(1)(b)  DPA  requiring  payment  of  an  amount  up  to 
£17,500,000  or  4%  of  an  undertaking’s  total  annual  worldwide 
turnover whichever is the higher. 

46. 

Right of appeal 

 
 
 
47.  By virtue of section 162(l)(c) DPA there is a right of appeal against 
this Notice to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights). If an appeal 
is brought against this Notice, it need not be complied with pending 
determination  or  withdrawal  of  that  appeal.  Information  about  the 
appeals process may be obtained from: 
 

General Regulatory Chamber  
HM Courts & Tribunals Service  
PO Box 9300 
Leicester  
LE1 8DJ  
Telephone: 0203 936 8963  
Email: grc@justice.gov.uk 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

48.  Any Notice of Appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 

calendar days of the date on which this Notice is sent. 

 
 
 

 
 

       
 

 
15 

  

 

Dated the 20th day of December 2023 
 
Signed:  
 

 

 
Anthony Luhman 
Director PACE Projects and Temporary Director of Investigations 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 5AF 
 

 

 
 

       
 

 
16 

  

 

ANNEX 1 
 
TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 
 
By  no  later  than  3  months  of  issue  of  the  notice  CPS  shall  take  the 
following steps: 
 

1.  Implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
prohibit and prevent the use by CPS personnel of self-procured USB 
portable storage devices for the storage, transportation and related 
processing of personal data of which CPS is the controller. 

2.  Implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
provision the use of CPS-procured  USB portable storage devices 
by  CPS  personnel  for  the  storage,  transportation  and  related 
processing of personal data of which CPS is the controller. 

3.  Implement appropriate technical and organisational measures for 
the purposes of asset management of CPS-procured USB portable 
storage devices, including the registration of the procurement of 
these assets, requests for use of these assets, distribution of these 
assets,  sharing  of  these  assets  with  third  parties,  such  as  law 
enforcement  agencies  and  the  courts,  and  the  timely  return  of 
these assets.  

4.  Implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure that the use of CPS-procured  USB portable storage devices 
complies  with  CPS  policies  and  procedures  for  data  protection, 
including security principles and the implementation of measures 
such as device or file encryption. 

5.  Implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
limit the use of CPS-procured  USB portable storage devices, taking 
account of the overall risks of their use, the context of processing 
and  the  presence  of  available  alternatives  to  their  use  such  as 

 
 

       
 

 
17 

  

 

secure file transfer using the Egress solution or related solutions 
approved by the National Cyber Security Centre. 

 

 
 

       
 

 
18 

  

 

