 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, February 03, 2020

 

press release

 

Change of office in the BayLDA

 

 

The Bavarian Minister of the Interior, Joachim Herrmann, spoke in Ansbach on January 31, 2020

of the Orangery the President of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection

(BayLDA), Thomas Kranig, retired and

successor, Ministerialrat Michael Will, was inaugurated.

The Bavarian Minister of the Interior, Joachim Herrmann, has appointed the longstanding President of the BayLDA,

Thomas Kranig retired. He certified that since August 1st

2011 managed the fortunes of the state office, done great development work and a

have formed a powerful and modern authority. He leaves big footsteps. With smart people

nal decisions, excellent team leadership and always the right instinct

for formative developments he and his employees have the importance of data protection in the

Everyday life of the citizens made much more aware.

 

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information North Rhine-Westphalia,

Helga Block, and the President of the Federal Association of Industry, Prof. Dieter Kempf,

knew in their words of welcome the achievements of the BayLDA under its President Thomas Kra-

nig to enforce data protection law in such a way that the clubs and companies understand that

and what they must do to protect the personal data of the data subjects

senior

 

In his farewell speech, President Kranig also referred to one of his previous official

areas of work and said that his best work experience was a successful mediation

on proceedings, which he accompanied together with a colleague as a court mediator

was, in the course of which six legal disputes were settled to the satisfaction of those involved

the.

 

He pointed out that when it was taken over, the BayLDA consisted of 11 people and

33 posts are now available after his departure. The workload is still the same

before tremendous. His guiding principle was "that any advice that leads to a data

breach of protection is not committed is better than any fine. But he doesn't deny that

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

In any case, fines if the advice no longer helps, a very large and important one

also have general preventive significance.”

 

President Kranig thanked Minister of the Interior Herrmann for offering opportunities for redeployment in the

as part of the implementation of the budget to give BayLDA nine new posts this year

len on a permanent basis. His successor and friend Michael Will wished

good luck and a happy hand in all decisions he now makes as an independent

President will have to meet.

 

Michael Will thanked him for the trust he had in leading the company

of the BayLDA: "From working with Thomas Kranig for many years, I know

that I can look forward to a great team. Together we will continue to do this

work to ensure that the new European data protection law is applied in the everyday life of companies and

associations as well as in the daily life of the citizens".

 

Andreas Sachs, Vice President of the BayLDA, wished Mr. Kranig on behalf of all employees

and employees a well-deserved retirement and thanked him for his commitment

ment and great fairness for the concerns of the LDA team in times of enormous workload,

which the General Data Protection Regulation brought with it for the authority.

 

 

Andrew Sachs

Vice President

 

