1/16

 File No.: EXP202200993

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), on December 15,
2021, filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The re-
The complaint is directed against the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND PROFESSIONAL TRAINING.
GOVERNMENT OF THE BALEARIC ISLANDS, with NIF S0711001H (hereinafter,
the claimed party). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The claimant states that during the 2020/2021 academic year, he was exercising
as a teacher at the IES IES.1, of ***LOCATION.1 (Illes Balears), being assigned
a corporate email address that you no longer had access to at the end of the
start the academic year. However, on December 15, 2021, he received communication
GOOGLE notification informing you of a new login to the aforementioned account
reason why he considers that his identity could have been supplanted and
your rights regarding data protection.

Next to the notification, it provides a screenshot of the message received from GOOGLE
alerting account login.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the norm-
data protection tive.

The transfer, which was carried out by means of electronic notification, in accordance with the regulations
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of Administrative Procedure Co-
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was received on 4
February 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

No response has been received to this letter of transfer.

THIRD: On March 15, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the admission for processing of the claim presented by the
complaining party.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

During these proceedings, the following entities have been investigated:

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING OF THE GOVERNMENT OF
ILLES BALEARS, with NIF S0711001H, and address at CARRER DEL TER 16- 07009
PALMA (BALEARIC ISLANDS).

RESULT OF INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

The claimant provides a screenshot with content in Catalan in the
that GOOGLE reports that a new account login has occurred
***EMAIL.1.

On May 3, 2022, information was requested in relation to the facts
reported to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF THE BALEARIC ISLANDS, without obtaining a response.

On July 14, 2022, a response to the request for information from
the Data Inspection, in which the following is revealed:

The claimant has been a teacher at the center since September 1, 2020 until
on August 31, 2021.

During the first days of September, he was given an email address
corporate email, exclusively for academic and professional purposes
related to the mentioned educational center.

It has been detected that you have not accidentally withdrawn access to your email account
email in September 2021, as should have been done, that the
center has not changed the password of the email address of the
claimant, therefore, the claimant continued to have access to it.

The reasons and people who may have had access to this are unknown.
account, and that in no case has it been with the knowledge and consent of the team
manager, who at all times communicates to the teaching team that the use of this
account is exclusively for academic tasks, never for personal use, since it is
property of the educational administration, and that as a consequence of the detection
of the non-withdrawal of access to the corporate email account, the
access.

Regarding the required documentation on email security policies
corporate email, rules of use and information provided to employees and
users and cancellation rules for staff email accounts
unemployed, state that there is a security system called
double check. This system adds an additional layer of security in the event of
password theft and for security send an email to the same account

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

***URL.1 at the time it detects an input from a device other than the
usual. The system notifies the account holder with a message to verify that
it is not an intruder seeking undue access.

CONCLUSIONS:

-The claimant has been a teacher at the center since September 1, 2020 until
on August 31, 2021, and as a consequence an email address was provided
corporate email, exclusively for academic and professional purposes
related to the mentioned educational center.

-On December 15, 2021, there was an access to the corporate email account of the
claimant, ignoring the reasons and persons who may have had access
to this account.

-As a consequence of the detection of the non-withdrawal of access to the email account
corporate email, from this claim, access is withdrawn.

-Do not provide supporting documentation of email security policies
corporate email, rules of use and information provided to employees and
users and cancellation rules for staff email accounts
unemployed.
FIFTH: On November 23, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.4 of the GDPR.

The startup agreement was sent, in accordance with the rules established in the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by means of electronic notification,
being received on November 25, 2022, as stated in the certificate that
work on file.

SIXTH: Notified the aforementioned start agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the claimed party submitted a written
of allegations in which, in summary, he provides a technical report prepared by the
Information Technology in Education Service of the General Directorate of
Early Childhood and Educational Community.

This report shows that, in the Balearic Islands, the centers
educational have their own consoles either Google Workspace or Microsoft (in the
case of a center), due to the need that arose during the pandemic to have
digital environments in which to continue with the education of students before the
confinement and semi-presentiality scenarios.

From the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, through the CEP
IBSTEAM, specific training was carried out for the management of these consoles

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

educational institutions in which the safety and protection policies of
data.

Likewise, it is indicated that, in the event of the leave for any reason of a worker, the
accounts are suspended, not deleted, so that if the worker is back in
active (frequent situation in teaching staff) can access emails
Electronics (with working documentation) from previous courses.

However, it is recommended that the time between termination and suspension of the account
is one month, although the educational centers applied a more lax policy in
regarding dates of suspension of users due to the implications of the pandemic of
COVID-19 allowing more time for teachers to transfer material to
new accounts.

In relation to the specific case that has generated the claim, it expresses its
surprise at the acceptance as evidence to process the complaint, of the capture of
screen of the email in which the date does not appear.

The Information Technology in Education Service, with the collaboration of the
IES center IES.1, have verified the activity of the account through the tools
audit and investigation of the Workspace console of the IES IES.1.

As a result of these verifications, it considers it necessary to take into account the
following:

-Despite what the claimant states, it is observed that there has been no
change of password. Neither the owner of the account ever made a change to this
from the moment of creation. Also, the only post-creation activity
of the account was its suspension dated June 15, 2022.

-The claimant, contrary to what he states, maintained access to the account until
June 2022. The educational centers applied a more lax policy regarding
User suspension dates due to the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic
allowing more time for teachers to transfer material to new accounts.

-Regarding access, there is an access dated December 15, 2021,
to perform the change of ownership of a Classroom class. This access is
made at the request of the claimant himself. When accessing the Classroom app, the
notice is produced in the same way as if you went directly to the application
mail.

-The center has a protocol for the use of corporate accounts for accounts
new, approved in September 2022. The original protocol and its
translation. Prior to this date the information was given orally.

Documentation accrediting the security policies is provided with this report
of corporate mail, which is being worked on at the Ministry level in addition to
those of the center.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

SEVENTH: On February 6, 2023, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

<< That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection be imposed on
GOVERNMENT MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
OF THE BALEARIC ISLANDS, with NIF S0711001H, for a violation of article 32 of the
GDPR, typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR, a warning sanction.>>

The aforementioned resolution proposal was sent, in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by means of electronic notification,
being received on February 6, 2023, as stated in the certificate that works
on the record.

EIGHTH: On February 14, 2023, the claimed party submitted a writ of
allegations to the Resolution Proposal, in which, in summary, it states that:

Regarding the first fact declared proven, in which the claimant considers that
Your identity could have been impersonated and your rights regarding the
data protection, alleges that it is a totally hypothetical manifestation, since
As stated in the Technical Report of February 13, 2023, the communication that
received by the complainant from Google on December 15, 2021, informing him of a
new login to your corporate account, it just proves that you received a notice of
security alert that an attempt to access the account had been detected
carried out automatically by Google and that from the analysis carried out on the console of the
IES IES.1, it was observed that this access attempt was produced by the action performed
by the claimant himself when making the change of ownership in the Classroom.

Therefore, there was only one access to his corporate account, which was on December 15.
of 2021, to make the change of ownership of a Classroom class, and this
access was made by the claimant himself. At no time has it been tested in the
disciplinary file that there was real access by another person to the account of the
claimant, nor that his identity has been supplanted.

Regarding the second fact declared proven, it states that the Service of
Information Technologies in Education with the collaboration of the IES center
IES.1, verified account activity using auditing tools and
investigation of the Workspace console of the IES IES.1, resulting that there was no
password change in the account from the moment of creation, by the user
user or administrator, and thus has been registered in the tool
Google Workspace console audit.

Regarding the third fact declared proven, it indicates that the non-suspension of the
claimant's account, which maintained access until June 2022, in no case
implies a security problem, since the technical measures of the
account.

It states that it should be taken into consideration that the Ministry of Education and
Vocational Training is applying continuous improvement measures regarding the
security and data protection policies. Thus, through the CEP IBSTEAM, they have
carried out specific training for the management of educational consoles
Workspace since 2020. In this specific case, the IES IES.1 approved a Protocol
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

use of the corporate account for faculty in September 2022, and
Currently, work is being done on the unification of all the consoles into one,
managed directly by the Information Technology Service in
Education.

It alleges that the fact that the Ministry is in an improvement process to
unifying the application of security measures is not equivalent to the previous situation
would imply a low level of security. Therefore, it can be said that these accounts
corporate email, whose use is exclusive for academic tasks by
be the property of the educational administration, are equipped with security systems
sufficient and efficient to prevent improper access by persons outside the
authorized in email accounts, by having double verification to
access from devices other than usual.

For all of the foregoing, it considers that the provisions of
article 32 of the GDPR, that despite having produced a security incident
in their systems, due to the fact that the claimant was not withdrawn access to their
email account as it should have been done, just like it happened with other
users in view of the difficulties of the situation derived from the COVID 19 pandemic, in
At no time during the processing of the disciplinary file have the
alleged facts that make up the infringement by the AEPD, and does not appreciate that
there is evidence to support access to this corporate account by a
third person, nor that their identity has been supplanted, and therefore, that
there has actually been an effective risk to the guarantees of the rights and
freedoms of the interested parties in relation to the processing of personal data, therefore
requesting that the disciplinary file be filed, with the consequent
declaration of absence of responsibility.

A Technical Report of the Information Technology Service is provided in the
Education, of February 13, 2023.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is on record that on December 15, 2021, the claimant filed
his claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency, in which he stated
manifest that during the 2020/2021 academic year, he was working as a professor
in the IES IES.1, of ***LOCALIDAD.1 (Illes Balears), being assigned an address
corporate email to which you no longer have access at the end of the course
academic.

However, on December 15, 2021, he received communication from GOOGLE, in-
forming a new login in the aforementioned corporate account for which
considers that their identity could have been impersonated and their rights violated in
around data protection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

SECOND: It is stated in the previous proceedings that the AEPD required the claimant to
information related to the incident, confirming what was stated in the study
claim, when stating the claimed party that accidentally was not
withdrew access to your email account as should have been done, and that
the center did not change the password of the claimant's email address
for which reason he continued to have access to it, unaware of the reasons and persons
who have been able to access the account.
THIRD: From the result of checking the activity of the account through
audit and investigation tools of the IES Workspace console IES.1,
carried out by the Service of Information Technology in Education, with the
collaboration of the IES IES.1 center, it is stated that the claimant who was a teacher at the
center from September 1, 2020 to August 31, 2021, maintained
access to the account until June 2022, that is, more than one month after the termination
of the claimant as a teacher at the center.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

previous questions

The Ministry of Education and Vocational Training of the Government of the Balearic Islands,
Like any other public entity, it is obliged to comply with the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding
to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data.
personal data and the free circulation of these data -RGPD-, and LO 3/2018, of December 5,
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights -LO-
PDGDD- regarding the processing of personal data that they carry out,
understanding by personal data, "all information about a natural person
identified or identifiable.

An identifiable natural person is considered to be one whose identity can be determined,
directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a
name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

one or several elements proper to physical, physiological, genetic, psychological,
economic, cultural or social of said person.

In the specific case under review, the corporate email address
created in the context of work activity, composed of the name and surname of the
person to whom it has been attributed, constitutes personal data in the sense
do of article 4.1 of the GDPR, and, therefore, data related to a natural person
identified or identifiable.

Likewise, treatment must be understood as “any operation or set of operations
tions made on personal data or sets of personal data, either by
automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structure
ration, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, co-
communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of access authorization,
collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction”.

Taking into account the above, the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training
of the Government of the Balearic Islands provides a series of public services, for which
it treats personal data of its employees and citizens.

It carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, since it is
who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the GDPR:
"responsible for the treatment" or "responsible": the natural or legal person, authority
public authority, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the criteria
Specific reasons for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the
Member states.
Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of security"
security of personal data" (hereinafter security breach) as "all
those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
Accidental or illegal transfer of personal data transmitted, stored or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data.”
Regarding the application of data protection regulations to the alleged
raised, it should be taken into account that the GDPR, in its article 32, requires those responsible
responsible for the treatment, the adoption of the corresponding security measures
cesarean sections that guarantee that the treatment complies with current regulations, as well as
such as ensuring that any person acting under the authority of the controller or
of the person in charge and has access to personal data, can only process them following instructions
instructions of the person in charge.

Allegations Adduced to the Initiation Agreement

II

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

The defendant alleges that, in the event of a worker leaving for any reason, the
accounts are suspended, not deleted, so that if the worker is back in
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

active (frequent situation in teaching staff) can access emails
Electronics (with working documentation) from previous courses.

Likewise, the recommendation is indicated that the time between cessation and suspension
of the account is one month, therefore, in this sense, it should be noted then that
security measures were not being complied with at the time of the events.

From the result of checking account activity using tools
audit and investigation of the Workspace console of the IES IES.1, carried out by the
Information Technology in Education Service, with the collaboration of the
IES center IES.1 states that the claimant, who was a teacher at the center from day 1
from September 2020 to August 31, 2021, you maintained access to the account
until June 2022, that is, much more than a month after the claimant's termination
as a teacher at the center.

From all this, it can be deduced a lack of due diligence both in compliance with the
established security measures, as well as in the supervision or verification of its
observance and/or suitability of these.

In fact, as stated in the previous proceedings, the AEPD required the re-
claimed information related to the incident, confirming what was stated in the
written claim, when stating the claimed party that accidentally was not
withdrew access to your email account as should have been done, and that
the center did not change the password of the claimant's email address
for which reason he continued to have access to it, unaware of the reasons and persons
who have been able to access the account.
In this regard, it should be noted that article 32 of the GDPR is infringed both if it is not
the person in charge adopts the appropriate technical and organizational measures
that guarantee the security of personal data, as if, established these, the
they are not observed.

It is understood that the security measures implemented were insufficient,
capable of being improved; which is made clear by the statement that,
until September 2022, the center did not have a protocol for the use of the accounts
corporate for new accounts.

Consequently, the allegations must be dismissed, meaning that the
arguments presented do not distort the essential content of the offense that
is declared committed nor does it imply sufficient justification or exculpation.

IV.

Allegations Adduced to the Resolution Proposal

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity to the Proposal
Resolution, the following should be noted:

The claimed party alleges that there was only one access to the corporate account that was the
December 15, 2021, to make the change of ownership of a class of
Classroom, and this access was made by the claimant himself and that in no
moment it has been proven in the disciplinary file that there was a real access of
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

another person to the claimant's account, or that their identity has been impersonated.
Likewise, it states that there has been no password change in the account since the
time of creation, by the user or the administrator, and so it has been
logged in the Google Workspace console audit tool.

In this regard, it should be noted that the opening of this Proceeding
Penalty was not due to access to the corporate account by a third party
person, or that the identity of the claimant has been supplanted, but to the fact that
have been made aware that access to the account was maintained until June
2022, that is, much more than a month after the claimant's termination as a teacher
of the center, despite the fact that the recommendation was that the time between cessation and
suspension of the account outside of a month.

Thus, from the analysis of the documentation provided, the defendant herself acknowledges having
there has been a security incident in their systems, due to the fact that it was not withdrawn
claimant access to your email account as it should have been done,
as happened with other users in the face of the difficulties of the situation derived from the
COVID 19 pandemic. Moreover, it was after the claim, when the
access to the corporate email account.

In this sense, it should be remembered that 32 of the GDPR, stresses the need for
the controller takes appropriate technical and organizational measures
to effectively apply the data protection principles and guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk, without it being possible to accept as justification the
circumstance of the health emergency.

The defendant argues that the alleged facts that make up
the infraction. In this sense, it means that proactive responsibility entails
that those responsible and in charge have the obligation to comply with the GDPR and
demonstrate (prove) compliance with the GDPR in data processing
personal data, including the effectiveness of the measures, adequately documenting all
the decisions it adopts in order to prove it.

In this sense, Recital 74 establishes that:

"The responsibility of the data controller must be established for
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.”

In the specific case under review, it was found that the measures had not been adopted
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security
appropriate to the risk, since, until September 2022, the center did not have
a protocol for the use of corporate accounts for new accounts. In fact,
Prior to this date, the information was given orally.

By continuing to access the email account, you continue to be able to
access personal data and information to which you should no longer have access for not

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

work in that center. This risk must be taken into account by the person in charge of the
treatment who must establish the necessary technical and organizational measures and
that increases the requirement of the degree of protection in relation to safety and security
save this data.

As regards the continuous improvement measures that the Ministry claims to have
adopted in terms of security and data protection policies, although it reflects
positive conduct, does not distort the facts verified and that are constitutive of
an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 32 GDPR.

Consequently, the allegations must be dismissed, meaning that the
arguments presented do not distort the essential content of the offense that
is declared committed nor does it imply sufficient justification or exculpation.

V

GDPR Article 32

Article 32 of the GDPR, security of treatment, establishes the following:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature of
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as probability risks
and variable severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsibility
responsible and the person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, will include
yeah, among others:

to)

to)

to)

pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

the ability to restore availability and access to personal data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

b) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the safety of the
treatment.

2. When assessing the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
The risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence
of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of personal data transmitted
collected, preserved or processed in another way, or the unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mecha-
certification document approved in accordance with article 42 may serve as an element to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and having
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

ga access to personal data can only process such data following instructions
of the controller, unless it is required to do so by Union law or by
the Member States”.

Recital 75 of the GDPR lists a series of factors or assumptions associated with
risks to the guarantees of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties:

“Risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and pro-
Variable reliability may be due to data processing that could cause damage.
physical, material or immaterial damages and damages, particularly in cases in which
the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, identity theft
or fraud, financial loss, damage to reputation, loss of confidentiality of
data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization or
any other significant economic or social damage; in the cases in which the
prevents the interested parties from their rights and freedoms or prevents them from exercising control over
open your personal data; in cases in which the personal data processed reveals
regardless of ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs,
union membership and the processing of genetic data, data relating to health or
data on sexual life, or criminal convictions and offenses or security measures
related ity; in cases where personal aspects are evaluated, in particular
the analysis or prediction of aspects related to performance at work, situation
economics, health, personal preferences or interests, reliability or behavior,
situation or movements, in order to create or use personal profiles; In the cases
in which personal data of vulnerable persons, in particular children, are processed; either
in cases where the processing involves a large amount of personal data
and affects a large number of stakeholders.”

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications that the
The claimed party has violated article 32 of the GDPR, when an incident of
security in their systems, by not withdrawing access to the claimant's email account
email as it should have been done.

It should be noted that the GDPR in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of measures
security measures that are applicable in accordance with the data that is the object of
treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment apply
technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved in the
treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of application, the na-
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability and
seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

In addition, security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, noting that the determination of technical and organizational measures
must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption, the capacity
to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the ability to
capacity to restore availability and access to data after an incident, recovery process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures.
 
In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security, particular
take into account the risks presented by data processing, as a consequence
of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of personal data transmitted

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

collected, preserved or processed in another way, or the unauthorized communication or access
to said data and that could cause physical, material or in-
materials.

In this sense, recital 83 of the GDPR states that:

"(83) In order to maintain security and prevent processing from infringing the provisions of
this Regulation, the controller or processor must assess the risks
inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption. Are you-
measures must ensure an adequate level of security, including confidentiality,
taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application with respect to
the risks and nature of the personal data to be protected. When evaluating the
risk in relation to data security, the risks should be taken into account
derived from the processing of personal data, such as destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to said data, susceptible
in particular of causing physical, material or immaterial damages.

In the present case, as stated in the previous proceedings, the AEPD required the
the requested party information related to the incident, confirming what was indicated
stated in the claim document, when stating the claimed party that accidentally
access to your email account was not removed as should have been done
cho, and that the center did not change the password of the email address of the
claimant for which reason he continued to have access to it, unaware of the reasons
and people who have been able to access the account.
The liability of the claimed party is determined by the insurance bankruptcy.
revealed in the claim and documentation provided, since it is res-
responsible for making decisions aimed at effectively implementing the
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of safety
appropriate to the risk to ensure the confidentiality of the data, restoring its distribution
availability and prevent access to them in the event of a physical or technical incident.

Consequently, it is considered that the accredited facts are constitutive of
infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 32 GDPR.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

SAW

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the RGPD supposes the commission of infringements ti-
classified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the heading "General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 EUR or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume of
overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

to)

the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that "Consti-
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 have infractions
of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
the present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the
They are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a vulnerability.
substantial portion of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

VII

Responsibility

Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in
Chapter III relating to the "Principles of the Power to sanction", in article 28
under the heading "Responsibility", the following:

"1. They may only be penalized for acts constituting an administrative offense
physical and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous patrimonies, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or fault."

The lack of adoption of technical and organizational measures that are appropriate for
guaranteeing a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment constitutes the element
moment of guilt

VIII

Sanction

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR in its section 7 establishes:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under art.
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
of, and to what extent, imposing administrative fines on public authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of liability”
responsible or responsible for the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities,
tonomas and entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
only, the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct the effects of the
offense that was committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are in-
Sayings enough for that. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
be applicable.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
accredit the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the corresponding Official State or regional Gazette.
gives.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
This will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infringement.

When the competence corresponds to an autonomous authority for the protection of
data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations.”

In this case, it is deemed appropriate to sanction the party with a warning.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

claimed, for the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, for the lack of adoption of
those technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to guarantee a
level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SANCTION the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION with a WARNING
AND PROFESSIONAL TRAINING OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE BALEARIC ISLANDS, with
NIF S0711001H, for a violation of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article
83.4 of the GDPR.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND
VOCATIONAL TRAINING OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE BALEARIC ISLANDS.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-181022

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

