Page: 1 of 16  
Protection of Minors on  
the Internet  
–  
Avoid Inappropriate Content  
While Preserving Their Privacy  

Page: 2 of 16  
February 2020  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
Access to digital content has become a reality in which no group of individuals is in any way exempt. Nearly 85% of the Spanish population has access to the internet from home, and in particular, almost 70% of minors under 15 years old have a mobile phone.  
Despite the benefits that current connectivity brings, there are a number of risks that we must not forget, especially for the most vulnerable groups such as minors, and we must remember that any event in childhood can have significant repercussions on their development as adults. Therefore, while access to the Internet should be seen as a great opportunity for the development of minors, parents or guardians must take measures to protect them from the threats of the digital environment just as they do in the physical world, and the industry must provide tools to help safeguard their privacy and well-being.  
This document will present the main options available to parents and guardians to prevent minors from accessing inappropriate content. Additionally, recommendations for developers of child protection tools will be outlined to ensure that the necessary technical and organizational measures are implemented to protect the rights and freedoms of minors.  

Keywords: minor, control, parental, privacy, analysis, internet, device, mobile,  
GDPR, LOPDGDD, technological unit, content, inappropriate.  

1 INE – Spain in figures 2018  

Page: 3 of 16  
INDEX  
I. INTRODUCTION 4  
II. OBJECTIVE AND TARGET AUDIENCE 4  
III. IMPACT OF INAPPROPRIATE CONTENT ON MINORS 5  
IV. OPTIONS TO AVOID ACCESS TO INAPPROPRIATE CONTENT 6  
A. Safe Search Engines and Exclusive Content Apps for Children 6  
B. Parental Control Offered by Manufacturers' Operating Systems 7  
C. Other Parental Control Applications 7  
D. Parental Control Options Offered by Telecommunications Operators 8  
E. Alternatives to Using Parental Control Applications 8  
F. Parental Control on Other Devices 9  
G. Control Methods by Content Publishers and Editors 9  
V. MAIN METHODS TO BYPASS PARENTAL CONTROL 9  
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PARENTS AND GUARDIANS 10  
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE INDUSTRY 11  
VIII. CONCLUSIONS 12  
IX. REFERENCES 14  
X. ANNEXES 15
Page: 4 of 16  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Access of minors to inappropriate content is a frequent concern for parents in an increasingly connected world, with the use of smart devices from very early ages. For example, the age of first access to pornographic content in Spain has dropped to 8 years, while from the age of 14, the consumption of such content is widespread.  
Examples of inappropriate content for the development of minors include images or videos with sexual content, violent content, inappropriate language, trends that promote negative values that can pose health risks or lead to bad habits, or false or unverified information. Access to this type of content does not always occur after an explicit search by the minor; rather, in many cases, there is an "accidental" exposure when such content appears unexpectedly while the minor is engaged in any activity online.  
The consequences for minors are as diverse as they are undesirable, ranging from psychological and emotional harm to the establishment of dangerous and socially inappropriate behaviors or damage to their physical health.  
There are various options to prevent minors from inadvertently or voluntarily accessing inappropriate content when using these devices for browsing, applications, video games, or online TV. These options, which often come in the form of mobile applications, can become very intrusive to the minor's privacy, making it advisable to understand the risks in order to mitigate them.  
This document will present the main options available to parents and guardians to prevent minors from accessing inappropriate content, identify the main risks that may arise from their use, and provide recommendations for selecting the appropriate tool while minimizing risks to the minor's privacy.  
Additionally, recommendations will be provided for developers of such protective tools to implement the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect the rights and freedoms of minors.  
II.  
OBJECTIVE AND TARGET AUDIENCE  
The objective of this technical note is to highlight the harm that can occur to a minor when accessing content that is not suitable for their age, the options available to parents to prevent their children’s exposure to such content, the implications for the privacy of these tools, advice for responsible use of them, and recommendations for developers to comply with the GDPR.  
This technical note is primarily aimed at parents and guardians of children who wish to promote safe technology use, and for this, they need to establish mechanisms that limit access to inappropriate content and allow for control over the use of devices by children.  
It is also directed at entities and developers who provide these tools to parents and guardians through the main mobile device platforms.
Page: 5 of 16  
Finally, this technical note is of interest to editors and publishers of adult content.  
III.  
IMPACT OF INAPPROPRIATE CONTENT ON MINORS  
Before addressing how access to inappropriate content can affect minors, it is necessary to briefly outline the ways in which minors can access adult content.  
Basically, access occurs through direct or intentional search/access, indirect or unintentional access, entertainment content and video games, access through social networks, and through online advertising services.  
Direct or intentional search/access occurs when minors access information available on the internet to satisfy their curiosity, conducting searches on topics intended for adults in search engines and accessing content that is not appropriate for their age but is easily available online.  
Indirect access occurs when a minor encounters inappropriate content unintentionally while searching for and consulting other types of information.  
Entertainment content such as movies, television, music, and video games can contain a large amount of inappropriate content for minors, and often this content is explicit: violence, sex, extremist behaviors and values, etc.  
Likewise, on social networks, including instant messaging services, email, etc., there are numerous scams hidden behind promotions, discount coupons, and online commerce, as well as the exchange of inappropriate content among minors (images, videos, etc.).  
Finally, it is worth noting that online advertising is always present in the form of pop-ups, banners, videos, etc., and can sometimes lead to the exposure of minors to inappropriate content such as pornography, gambling services, etc.  
Access to inappropriate content can have multiple consequences for minors, as many as there are varieties of inappropriate content that can be considered. The National Cybersecurity Institute (INCIBE) highlights the following potential harms to minors within the framework of its Safe Internet for Children initiative (is4k.es):  
•  
Psychological and emotional harm. The minor has a developing maturity and self-esteem, making them more emotionally vulnerable if they encounter information they are unable to process or do not know how to react to, such as pornographic or violent content. These can be too complex and even disturbing for them.  
•  
Disinformation, manipulation, and the construction of false beliefs. False and unverified content can confuse minors and is especially dangerous when it deals with topics related to health and safety.  
•  
Establishment of dangerous or socially inappropriate behaviors. Minors may accept certain content as true and positive, adopting it in the form of harmful behaviors or values: sexism, machismo, homophobia, racism, etc.  
•  
Physical health damage. Some content aims to promote eating disorders (anorexia and bulimia), self-harm behaviors or
Page: 6 of 16  
drug use. Others may encourage minors to engage in potentially dangerous activities for their health, such as certain videos or viral chains.  
•  
Inclusion in harmful groups and collectives. Accessing certain content may bring minors closer to extremist, violent, or racist groups, as well as ideological or religious sects, radical political groups, etc. The emotional factor is important when facing this information that can be harmful or malicious, given that low self-esteem, or that which is still developing, increases the vulnerability of the minor.  
•  
Addictions. Access to inappropriate content about drugs, sex, and gambling can promote addiction disorders, as minors may not have sufficient critical capacity to manage the risks associated with these types of activities.  
•  
Economic expenses. Frauds or attempts to deceive users to obtain their money or data can lead to direct economic losses, as occurs, for example, with Premium SMS subscriptions. Additionally, minors are more vulnerable when interpreting and managing the excessive advertising to which they are exposed on the Internet, as it can generate in them the need to consume impulsively, as happens with purchases in games and applications. Furthermore, the content of advertisements is not always appropriate for them in itself.  
IV. OPTIONS TO AVOID ACCESS TO INAPPROPRIATE CONTENT  
Below, a non-exhaustive series of options is presented that can help prevent minors from accessing inappropriate content, or at least limit their exposure as much as possible.  
A.  
SAFE SEARCH ENGINES AND APPS WITH EXCLUSIVE CONTENT FOR CHILDREN  
The most immediate and obvious option to prevent minors from accessing content inappropriate for their age and level of maturity is safe search engines and applications with content exclusively directed at children.  
These are generally search engines based on Google SafeSearch that exclude search results based on certain filtered words, such as Kiddle, applications like YouTube for Kids that restrict the search for videos, or applications with exclusive content for children like App Movistar Junior, Vodafone Kids Planet, and others. Some may also limit the usage time of the browser or block the screen. They are, in general, applications that are not intrusive to the minor's privacy, and due to their limited functionality, they do not require a high number of permissions to operate. On the contrary, they are only effective for minors who use the device under the direct supervision of an adult because simply switching applications bypasses all restrictions.  
Some devices (Samsung Kids Home) allow the configuration of a permitted applications environment protected by a PIN, so that the minor can only use those applications. In this way, access to multimedia content and new applications can be authorized as the needs of the minor increase. This is achieved through what is known as a launcher. A launcher is the equivalent of a desktop in Android, displaying the icons of certain applications and allowing them to be executed, as well as the wallpaper image, while keeping the icons of prohibited applications hidden, which cannot be executed. This mode allows for more
Page: 7 of 16  
the autonomy of the minor with the device, as they will be able to switch between authorized applications and content, but they are effective only among the youngest due to the aesthetics and significant restrictions they impose.  
B.  
PARENTAL CONTROL OFFERED BY MANUFACTURERS' OPERATING SYSTEMS  
Major manufacturers of operating systems for mobile devices offer very comprehensive solutions, well integrated into the system and free or included in the license of the operating system itself. This is the case with Google’s Family Link for Android devices, or Apple’s Parental Control for iOS devices. In the first case, it is installed as an independent and free application from the Google Play Store, while in the second case, it is integrated into the operating system itself and only needs to be activated and configured.  
In the case of Microsoft, there is also the possibility of establishing parental control settings in Windows 10, with some functionalities available on Android through the Microsoft Launcher application, which is also integrated into the operating system itself, but does not include web content filtering.  
In both the case of Google and Microsoft, it is necessary to create a specific user account for minors, indicating their age, which will be authorized and managed from an adult user account.  
Despite being well integrated into the system, they are not without limitations. For example, with Family Link, content filtering only works when using Chrome for browsing, making it necessary to block the installation and use of other browsers. In the case of Microsoft, content blocking only works on devices with Windows 10 and the Edge browser, requiring the blocking of the installation and use of other browsers.  
In addition to content filtering, generally speaking, the three options offer similar functionalities such as application control/blocking, usage time control, and GPS location tracking.  
The wide range of functionalities they offer means that these applications need to access a large number of protected system resources and process a significant volume and complexity of personal data related to the minor, which can be very intrusive to the minor's privacy.  
Nevertheless, in cases where they are integrated into the operating system, they will hardly require permissions from the user as they can access resources through the privileges of the operating system itself.  
For this reason, it is vital that such applications exercise essential transparency in their privacy policies and provide sufficient granularity regarding the processing to be carried out.  
C.  
OTHER PARENTAL CONTROL APPLICATIONS  
There is a wide range of parental control applications on the market that allow blocking minors' access to inappropriate content. A good compilation of these tools, along with a selection guide, is published on the is4k website of INCIBE.  
They have very diverse functionalities, such as time control, content filtering, application blocking, activity tracking, alerts and notifications, multi-device control, geolocation, etc. However, not all prevent access to inappropriate content, so it is important to select one that includes content filtering and application blocking.
Page: 8 of 16  
As in the previous cases, these are applications that, due to their characteristics, can access sensitive information about traffic, the minor's activity on the internet, and even their physical location. Therefore, it is advisable to carefully select the application based on the granularity it offers in the functionalities it provides and to pay attention to the privacy policy of each one before installing them. Those that allow monitoring of the minor's activity on social networks will also need access to the user accounts of those social networks, and thus access to all the minor's information on those social networks. While they provide extraordinary control capabilities, which may be appropriate in certain circumstances, they can also represent an excessive intrusion into the minor's privacy. All social media applications include privacy controls to manage/limit the minor's interaction with strangers, censor messages received based on their origin and content, etc. The is4k website includes guidelines for making the most of these privacy options.  
These applications will require the user to grant a high number of permissions to access system resources, which, once granted, give the applications access to a variety and volume of information traditionally reserved for the operating system. Therefore, these applications must also be required to demonstrate exemplary transparency regarding the processing of personal data they perform and to implement technical and organizational security measures of the highest level to minimize risks to the rights and freedoms of minors.  
Some of the most well-known are Qustodio, Norton Family, Kaspersky Safekids, F-Secure Mobile Security, and Securekids.  
D.  
PARENTAL CONTROL OPTIONS OFFERED BY TELECOMMUNICATION OPERATORS  
Traditional telecommunication operators in Spain offer the option to contract a parental control service (Movistar Protege, Vodafone SecureNet, and Orange Kids Ready) for an additional cost, which requires the installation of a specific app on each device to be monitored. They allow management of children's activity on the internet, content filtering (adult content, violence, social networks, etc.), defining connection periods, blocking applications, and other functionalities from a single point that controls the managed devices. In the case of Movistar, it is based on another commercial parental control application called Qustodio.  
Only Orange has a specific rate for minors called Orange Kids, which includes by default and free of charge the protection of the Orange Kids Ready service.  
E.  
ALTERNATIVES TO THE USE OF PARENTAL CONTROL APPLICATIONS  
There are some alternatives to avoid the installation of parental control applications, but they require some technical knowledge. One of them is the DNS content filtering option offered by OpenDNS (Family Shield), CleanBrowsing, and others. This is configured in the home router, changing the DNS servers set by the internet provider to other DNS servers that will filter access requests to inappropriate content websites (adult content, games, gambling, torrents, social networks, etc.) based on configurable filters. It can be very effective for all devices connected to the home network (WiFi or cable), such as mobile phones, tablets, computers, gaming consoles, and smart TVs, but  

4 Álvaro Feal*, Paolo Calciati, Narseo Vallina-Rodriguez, Carmela Troncoso, and Alessandra Gorla. (2019). Angel or Devil? A Privacy Study of Mobile Parental Control Apps  
5 Examples of home router configurations to use OpenDNS or CleanBrowsing
Page: 9 of 16  
difficult to manage for mobile data connections and other WiFi networks. In the past, telephone operators offered such services simply for their ADSL customers, such as CanguroNet from Telefónica.  
These alternatives can be used in combination with some of the parental control applications mentioned earlier.  
F.  
PARENTAL CONTROL ON OTHER DEVICES  
Parental control in TV and streaming video services  
Major TV and streaming video platforms (HBO, Netflix, VodafoneTV, Movistar+, OrangeTV) offer the option to block access to certain content by setting up a password.  
Parental control in gaming devices  
All video game consoles have some form of parental control system, allowing parents to protect their children's safety and maintain an appropriate level of privacy. These applications allow, among other things, to select which games children can play based on the PEGI rating, limit and monitor online purchases, restrict internet browsing from the device, set limits on gaming time, and control the level of online interaction in gaming chats.  
G.  
CONTROL METHODS BY CONTENT PUBLISHERS AND PUBLISHERS  
So far, there is no evidence that publishers and content providers for adults in Spain use any effective method to verify the age of users, beyond requests for the user to confirm their age.  
However, there are market solutions that could address this issue, such as AgeID, AgeChecked, AgePass, and Yoti, among others. These are third-party services that verify the identity and/or age of the user through a document such as a passport or driver's license. Once age is verified, personal information is encrypted or destroyed, so that it is only retained and shared with the adult content service if the user is of legal age or not.  
In the case of Yoti, it offers the option to verify age without the need to provide any document, using facial analysis technologies. To avoid false positives, the system will estimate whether the user is over 25 years old or not, and that is the only data shared with the online adult content service. This service can be tested at https://www.provemyage.com/. Yoti is also the only solution certified by the British regulator (British Board of Film Classification), based on a certification scheme for age verification systems that includes, among other things, data protection requirements.  
The evolution towards tools of this type would represent a significant advance in terms of proactive responsibility on the part of data controllers.  
V. MAIN METHODS TO BYPASS PARENTAL CONTROL  
The control methods presented in this technical note are not infallible, and if the minor has some interest and curiosity, they may find mechanisms to bypass access limits to content. Even lacking such interest, and despite the measures
Page: 10 of 16  
Minors may continue to access this type of content collaterally. The main mechanisms to avoid access control to content are:  
1. Use of online proxies to access restricted web content. For example, from https://www.hidemyass.com/en-us/proxy, one can browse to other restricted pages. These pages that function as proxies can be specifically blocked, but it is necessary to be vigilant and block them if their use is detected.  
2. Password discovery. Often, minors are able to discover the password/PIN for parental control management.  
3. VPNs. Connecting through VPNs (free or paid) can produce a similar effect to using proxies, losing all possible control over content filtering.  
4. Connection to unprotected networks (WiFi), for example, the WiFi of shopping centers or restaurants. If filtering solutions based on DNS request filtering from the home network are chosen, by connecting to other WiFi networks, the minor can browse without any type of filter. Parental control applications are usually capable of filtering regardless of the internet access network used.  
5. Portable browsers. Some parental control tools only filter content in certain web browsers. It is necessary to block the installation of other browsers to prevent access to inappropriate content. However, some platforms allow the use of portable browsers that do not require installation and can be used to bypass content filtering.  
6. Viewing content through unblocked services such as Google Images, Google Translate, Wikipedia, WhatsApp, Telegram, …  
Once these mechanisms are exposed, it is evident that the various parental control options are not infallible, and the only way to address this type of vulnerability is to complement the use of these tools with proper education on the safe use of technology, the dangers of the internet, and the importance of being able to take their own measures.  
Additionally, it is interesting and necessary to properly configure the privacy and security options of those applications that allow it. Making good use of these functions is essential for achieving more effective parental control. In the IS4K initiative by INCIBE, guidance can be found for configuring applications such as Instagram, TikTok, YouTube, WhatsApp, etc.  
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PARENTS AND GUARDIANS  
Based on all the above, a series of recommendations for parents and guardians are established:  
1. Educate minors about the risks to their privacy and security in the use of mobile technologies. Encourage responsible use of technology.  
2. Limit minors' usage time of connected devices.  
3. Make them aware that it is necessary to take measures for their own safety. Tell them that you take these measures for their own good.  
4. Use operating systems, internet providers, and third parties that provide parental control options that allow monitoring of mobile device usage.  
5. Configure parental control options, as they offer different functionalities such as content filtering, time limitations, application blocking, social media usage details, GPS location, etc.
Page: 11 of 16  
6. Choose the tool that best fits your needs and provides guarantees to avoid introducing new risks.  
7. Be informed about data retention periods and ensure that the data is not used for purposes other than those you need.  
8. Use browsers, launchers, and applications in their child-friendly versions, which are alternatives that may be less intrusive.  
9. Do not forget that other connected devices such as Smart TVs or gaming consoles are exposed to similar risks.  
10. Keep in mind that some tools may over-block; keep the possibility of unblocking content at the minor's request open, and be willing to agree with them on the filters and restrictions to configure. Excessive blocking can be counterproductive.  
11. Remember that parental control tools are not infallible, so properly configure privacy and security options in applications and social networks, remain alert, and communicate with your children.  
VII.  
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE INDUSTRY  
Since these types of parental control services are primarily offered through applications on mobile devices, it is necessary for the industry, service providers, and developers to consider the recommendations established in the technical note on the duty to inform and other measures of proactive responsibility in mobile applications published by this Agency.  
Furthermore, given the intrusive nature of these types of applications, motivated by the wide range of functionalities they offer and the special characteristics of the audience they are aimed at, technical and organizational measures should be applied based on the level of risk to the rights and freedoms of minors.  
In addition to the guidelines outlined in the previous technical note, without aiming for exhaustiveness, providers of parental control application services should consider the following recommendations:  
1. Application of the data minimization principle. While these applications often offer very diverse functionalities, it will not always be necessary for parents to use all of them. Granularity should be offered in this regard, establishing mechanisms that allow for the activation and deactivation of each of these functionalities based on the needs of each family. Personal data corresponding to a deactivated functionality should not be processed.  
2. Minimization of permissions. Similarly to the previous point, mechanisms should be established to avoid requesting access permissions to system resources that are unnecessary for the functionalities that will be used. For example, if a user does not need to use the GPS location functionality of the minor, it does not seem necessary for the application to continuously access geolocation data, even in the background.  
3. Management of third-party libraries. Almost all applications include third-party libraries to add very diverse functionalities such as usage statistics, error reports, user authentication, or advertising. In such cases, interested parties should be informed of the personal data processing that may be introduced by such libraries in order to obtain valid consent before such processing takes place. Transfers should be avoided.  

6 AEPD - Decalogue for adapting privacy policies on the internet to the GDPR.  
7 is4k - Security, privacy, and parental control settings in popular applications.  
8 AEPD – Technical Note: The duty to inform and other measures of proactive responsibility in mobile applications.
Page: 12 of 16  
of personal data, including international data transfers, for which there is no legitimate basis and without adequate information provided.  
4. Establish guarantees in cloud services. Closely related to the previous section, all mobile applications require a similar set of features offered through backends. In some cases, third-party backends will be used for each of the functionalities; in other cases, those backends will be custom-developed for the specific application and consumed from the app via an API. Regardless of the modality, it is common for these backends to be hosted on cloud servers. In such cases, the processing carried out by these cloud service providers must be regulated by a contract or legal link that meets the requirements established in the GDPR. The data controller must exercise due diligence in selecting cloud service providers, and the data processing agreement must comply with the requirements established in the GDPR, paying special attention to privacy by design, by default security measures, confidentiality commitments, and security breach management procedures. For more information, the guide on contracting cloud services published by the Agency can be consulted. While the contracting of such services is usually done through adherence to contractual clauses established by the cloud service provider, they must either adapt those clauses to the requirements of the GDPR or provide sufficient flexibility to the contracting systems so that the established contracts can comply with the demands of the GDPR.  
5. Apply security measures. Considering the volume, categories, and profile of the individuals whose data is being processed, measures must be maximized by applying the highest security standards.  
VIII. CONCLUSIONS  
The use of connected mobile technologies by minors is increasingly widespread and represents an unstoppable trend due to the countless advantages it presents for their development and education. However, it also poses some risks that need to be addressed.  
One of the most significant risks is the exposure of minors to inappropriate content such as sexual images, violent material, gambling and betting, etc. This exposure can have significant negative effects on minors, ranging from emotional or psychological harm to the establishment of dangerous and socially inappropriate behaviors or harm to their physical health.  
This technical note has provided various options available to parents and guardians to control and limit minors' exposure to inappropriate content.  
The first option is the use of search engines, applications specifically aimed at children, and launchers that prevent minors from accessing other types of applications. This is a relatively simple and effective option at early ages, but it requires supervision.  
Secondly, there are parental control applications offered by the operating system developers, telecommunications operators, and other companies. These options, in addition to content filtering, offer additional functionalities.  

9 AEPD – Guide for clients contracting Cloud Computing services and Guidelines for Cloud Computing service providers.
Page: 13 of 16  
as time control for device usage, blocking access to applications, controlling usage time by application, monitoring activity on social networks, remote management for parents and guardians, and even real-time GPS location of the minor.  
To offer all these functionalities, these applications require numerous permissions to access protected resources of the device and process a very high volume of personal data of the minor. In short, they are options that, although effective in terms of the control purpose they pursue, are also very invasive to the minor's privacy.  
Before selecting a parental control application, it is important to obtain precise information about the processing of personal data that the application will carry out, especially security measures, data retention periods, possible data transfers, a clear identification of the data controller, and how to exercise the rights conferred by the GDPR. It is also important to select the option that best fits the required functionality, keeping in mind that greater functionality means greater potential invasion of the minor's privacy and a higher risk that a security incident could affect their rights and freedoms. Special attention should be paid to the privacy settings of each of the applications or social networks used by the minor.  
Those who provide this type of application to parents and guardians must be exemplary in exercising transparency and active responsibility, offering sufficient granularity in the functionalities provided and therefore in the processing of personal data carried out. That is, although an application may offer precise location of the minor, if parents do not consider its use necessary, they should be able to forgo the processing and deny the associated access permissions without that preventing the use of the application.  
As an alternative to parental control applications, there are other tools that allow for the blocking of access to inappropriate content by configuring DNS servers that will filter and not resolve requests that may direct the minor to such content. These solutions are quite effective on home WiFis but lose their effectiveness when the device connects to another network or uses mobile phone connectivity.  
In addition to actions that are the responsibility of parents, some options have also been presented for publishers and editors to prevent minors from accessing inappropriate content. For the moment, such controls are not very popular, but it is expected that their implementation will gradually increase. These types of measures can be considered examples of active responsibility in the application of the principle of data minimization.  
Additionally, this technical note presents some of the main techniques by which the minor could evade parental control; some of these require certain technical knowledge, but many others are practically within reach of anyone with sufficient curiosity and motivation.  
To conclude, and as a summary of everything presented during the technical note, a list of tips is provided to avoid the harm that can result from the minor's access to inappropriate content, while at the same time respecting their privacy and intimacy to the maximum extent.  

Page: 14 of 16  
IX. REFERENCES  
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).  
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights  
https://www.is4k.es/necesitas-saber/contenido-inapropiado  
https://www.is4k.es/de-utilidad/herramientas  
Brage, Lluís & Orte, Carmen & Gordaliza, Rosario. (2019). New pornography and changes in interpersonal relationships of adolescents and young people.  
Álvaro Feal*, Paolo Calciati, Narseo Vallina-Rodriguez, Carmela Troncoso, and Alessandra Gorla (2019). Angel or Devil? A Privacy Study of Mobile Parental Control Apps  
AEPD - Decalogue for adapting to the GDPR of privacy policies on the internet.  
AEPD – Technical note: The duty to inform and other proactive responsibility measures in mobile device apps.  
AEPD – Guide for clients contracting Cloud Computing services.  
AEPD – Guidelines for Cloud Computing service providers.  
Mobile Security Framework - MobSF  

Parental Control iOS – Privacy Policy  
Microsoft Family Safety – Privacy Policy  
Family Link – Privacy Policy  
Movistar Protege – Privacy Policy  
Vodafone Securenet – Privacy Policy  
Orange Kids Ready – Privacy Policy  
Kaspersky Safekids – Privacy Policy  
Securekids – Privacy Policy  
Qustodio – Privacy Policy  
F-Secure Mobile Security – Privacy Policy  
Norton Family – Privacy Policy  

Page: 15 of 16  
X. ANNEXES  

Comparative table of the analyzed parental control tools
Page: 16 of 16

This table includes the values of four parameters obtained through the static analysis of the parental control applications listed herein. The tool used for the analysis is Mobile Security Framework, an open-source and free tool. Only the Android versions of the related applications have been analyzed. Below, the meaning of each parameter is detailed.

Parameter  
Meaning  
CVSS- MobSF  
Scoring system designed to provide an open and standard method that allows estimating the impact derived from vulnerabilities identified in Information Technologies. An average of the potential vulnerabilities detected is obtained. Severity is considered low if the score obtained is between 0.0 and 3.9. Severity is medium if the result is between 4.0 and 6.9. It is considered high when the score is between 7.0 and 10.0.  
Score – MobSF  
Security score obtained by MobSF on a scale of 0 to 100, based on static analysis. Based on the OWASP methodology.  
Number of permissions requested – MobSF  
Number of permissions for access to system resources declared in the application code and that would be requested from the user.  
Trackers - MobSF  
Number of libraries or URLs of trackers detected in the application.