 

 

 
press release
 
Ansbach, June 23, 2022
 
 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision
- press office -
 
Email: presse@lda.bayern.de
 
 
 

Two decades of data protection in Middle Franconia

- Politics, science and data protection practice illuminate together
Successes and challenges of data protection supervision in Bavaria

 
On June 1, 2002, data protection supervision in Bavaria for the non-public area was
of the government of Middle Franconia in Ansbach. With a symposium on June 23
The State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) celebrated this in 2022 in the Onoldia Hall in Ansbach
Founding anniversary as the cornerstone of his later independence to become independent
Data protection supervisory authority for companies and associations in the Free State. Michael Will,
President of the authority since February 2020, welcomed the Minister of State for the Interior
Sport and integration Joachim Herrmann, representatives of the Bavarian state parliament, the
Science and official and operational data protection practice: "The success story
Our founding years are still an incentive and a benchmark for everyone in the state office. all those
who have contributed to this development work deserve our recognition and gratitude. Her
Services are the cornerstone for digitization and data protection in companies
and unite the Free State are not perceived as an adversary but as an opportunity."
 
Minister of State for the Interior, for Sport and Integration, Joachim Herrmann, outlined the
Milestones of the state office and its current focus of activities. "Thanks to the
Efforts by the state office made it possible for the state government to take the Bavarian path to a
Citizen-friendly and medium-sized business-friendly application of the new European data protection law
advertise and thus fears and insecurities among citizens, entrepreneurs and associations
to counteract this effectively and noticeably,” says Herrmann.
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Prof. Ulrich Kelber as
Chairman of the conference of data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments sharpened in
his greeting
federal
data protection supervision
European
data protection supervisory authorities. Further discussion rounds with the founding president of the
BayLDA Thomas Kranig, his predecessor Günther Dorn and high-ranking companions,
Cooperation partners and experts like the
for privacy and
Freedom of information of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia a.D. Helga Block or Prof. Dr.-Ing. Felix Freiling,
FAU
the
data protection supervision.

for the current challenges

future prospects

Erlangen-Nuremberg,

State representative

past

lit

embedding

compound

their

and

and

the

the

in

06/23/2022


 
Annex: Report on the symposium
"Two decades of data protection in Middle Franconia"
on June 23, 2022 in the Onoldiasaal, Ansbach
 
On June 1st, 2002 the data protection supervision in Bavaria for the non-public
Area focused on the government of Middle Franconia in Ansbach. With effect from
August 1, 2011, the State Office became an independent supervisory authority. The Bavarian
State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) sheds light on the past, present and
Future of data protection supervision on the occasion of this in the context of a symposium on
06/23/2022 together with top-class representatives from politics, science and
Privacy Practices.
 
In 2022, the BayLDA can look back on one of its first founding anniversaries - the 20th anniversary
the consolidation of data protection supervision for the non-public area for the whole
Free State in Ansbach. With an amendment to the Bavarian Data Protection Ordinance of December 3rd
In 2001, on June 1, 2002, data protection supervision for the whole of Bavaria was taken over by the seven governments
transferred to the government of Middle Franconia in Ansbach and thus laid the foundation for that later
independent state office for data protection supervision.
 
This 20th anniversary gave rise to the history of data protection supervision in Bavaria, its current
Conditions for action and their future challenges in a non-public symposium
with representatives of the official and operational data protection practice, the associations and the
Science and of course with the current and former employees of the State Office, the
all of them tirelessly address the data protection concerns of citizens despite an enormous workload
ensure and the success of the Bavarian data protection supervisory authority in the non-public area
justify, illuminate.
 
Minister of State for the Interior, for Sport and Integration, Joachim Herrmann, outlined the
Milestones of the state office and its current focus of activity. "Thanks to the
Efforts by the state office made it possible for the state government to take the Bavarian path to a
Citizen-friendly and medium-sized business-friendly application of the new European data protection law
advertise and thus fears and insecurities among citizens, entrepreneurs and associations
to counteract this effectively and noticeably,” says Herrmann.
 
Former President of the BayLDA Thomas Kranig, his predecessor Günther Dorn, the state representative
for data protection and freedom of information of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia a.D. Helga Block and Anke

INSERT DATE



 

Zimmer-Helfrich, Head of New Media Law Magazines and Editor-in-Chief at C.H. Beck,
First, moderated by the President of the Lower Franconia government, Dr.
Eugen Ehmann, the internal and external perspective of the past 20 years of data protection supervision in
Ansbach on. Initially settled as a subject area by the government of Middle Franconia, tried
the data protection supervisory authority headed by Mr. Günther Dorn has been concerned with data protection from the outset
to make it visible and understandable. President Thomas Kranig also followed this idea
of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision, which has been independent since 2011: "Our goal was a
to give first aid and to bring data protection into the economy in a way that people understand and
can implement".
 
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information then accused Prof.
Ulrich Kelber takes a look at the present, at the German federal structure of data protection supervision
in the European network. He emphasized that
especially the cooperation of
Data protection supervisory authorities at German and also at European level, in particular in
In view of the increasing digitization.
 
As part of the third thematic complex, an interdisciplinary future scenario was designed and
under the moderation of Dr. Mirka Möldner, Head of Division and Press Spokesperson of the BayLDA
discussed what to expect from data protection supervision. As experts regarding potential technical
Developments were discussed by Prof. Dr.-Ing. Felix Freiling, chair
(IT
security infrastructures) at FAU Erlangen-Nuremberg, Dr. Christian Pfrang, head of the Cloud department,
Platforms and data management in the Bavarian State Ministry for Digital and Andreas
Sachs, Vice President of the BayLDA. The legal framework for this future perspective illuminated
Isabell Conrad, lawyer specializing in data protection law and partner at CSW Munich and Thomas
Zerdick, Head of Unit at the European Data Protection Supervisor. Have been discussed here before
all problems, challenges and possible solutions related to the enormous
Increase in data collection and the merging of the digital and analog world. In doing so
especially homework that understand technical developments, advise preventively and clearly
communicate will remain the task of the data protection supervisory authority in the future.
 
The event took place on June 23, 2022 from 12:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. in the Onoldiasaal, Hofwiese 1,
Nürnberger Str. 30, 91522 Ansbach.
 

computer science

for

 

