1/12

 Procedure No.: PS/00274/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 04/04/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against INDEPENDENT TRADE UNION CENTRAL AND OFFICIALS CSI-
CSIF, with NIF G79514378 (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons on which the
claim are, in summary, the following:

The CSIF union delegate has published in an open WhatsApp group in which
almost all the workers of the Central Unit of Radiodiagnosis of
the Community of Madrid, a list of the electoral census that was for exclusive advertising
for the unions and in said list there are data such as the DNI of all the voters
that form the statutory staff.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:
On 05/07/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the complainant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required him to send to the determined Agency within a period of one month
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimants were informed of the receipt of their
claims and their transfer to the claimed entity.
On 05/24/2019, the DPD of the CSIF sent a letter in which it stated that based on
in the provisions of articles 14 and 18 of RD 1846/1994, which approves the
Regulation of elections of the personnel at the service of the Public Administrations, and
since the aforementioned census data are accessible by all the personnel of the
Central Unit of Radiodiagnosis of the Community of Madrid through its

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

intranet, the claim is dismissed because the incident caused is covered
in the current legislation.

THIRD: On 06/17/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.
FOURTH: On 11/22/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of the
article 58.2.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.
FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement, in writing dated 12/05/2019, the claimant
presented a pleadings brief in which, in summary, it stated the following: that
considered that there is legal protection for the publication of the data and in the form
carried out and that the argument that the list of the electoral census is publicity
exclusive to unions is inaccurate; that the communication was made by whatsapp
within the framework of a process of union elections protected by article 28 of the
Constitution, at the request of several members of the whatsapp group who had
difficulties in accessing the intranet where the data of the
census and that each and every one of the members of the group in which the
census consented voluntarily including complainant who are both
members of said census and that the real reason for the claim is inserted in a
election period since the claimant belongs to a union other than CSIF that
ran with the elections.
SIXTH: On 02/12/2020, the opening of a practice period of
tests, remembering the following:

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection services that are part of the file.

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement

presented by the claimed party and the documentation that accompanies them.

Ask the claimant for a copy of the documentation in their possession
related to the sanctioning procedure that for any reason had not been
provided at the time of the complaint or any other statement in relation
with the reported facts.
SEVENTH: On 07/08/2020, the claimant submitted a brief of allegations in which
pointed out, in summary, the following: that the proposal omits the due weighting
between the right to freedom of association and the right to data protection in matters
that affects both rights; the concurrence of public interest and legitimate interest
in the treatment of the data since the information provided was of public relevance or
of general interest to workers; that there has been no lack of diligence in
the performance of the union delegate; that the members of the whatsapp group in the
that the census was communicated, they voluntarily agreed to it, including the complainant, and
they are members of that same census; that the one that the scope of communication of the
personal data that is reported is inferior to the other means of publication of the
electoral census; that the union is concerned with adequate data protection
of citizens and for that reason signed a contract with the cabinet
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

legal ***GABINETE.1, a company specialized in the protection of
data, which implemented in it the necessary channels for the fulfillment of the
provided in the LOPD, appointment of Data Protection Delegate, etc., which
The complainant eluded the complaint channels and other means that CSIF offers; the
record of proceedings.
EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out, the following have been accredited,

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 04/04/2019 it has a written entry in the AEPD indicating that the
CSIF union delegate had published in an open WhatsApp group in which
almost all the workers of the Central Unit of Radiodiagnosis of
the Community of Madrid, a list of the electoral census of exclusive advertising for
the unions, including data such as the DNI of all the voters that make up the
statutory staff; than the census that is published on the boards and to which they have
access workers do not include the DNI.
SECOND. A copy of the whasapp application has been provided in which the list of the
electoral census, appearing next to the names and surnames, the DNI number.
THIRD. The respondent in writing dated 05/24/2019 has stated that: “there is
legal protection for the publication of the data and in the way in which it has been carried out,
more so when neither of the two precepts mentioned differentiates between census for
publish on the boards, and census to communicate to the unions, or what is the same
that in the census that is published on the boards the same data does not come as in the
census that are communicated to the unions. At the same time that it enables making it public between
the functionaries".

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

The claimed facts are specified in the publication through a group
open whatsapp that contains the majority of the Unit's workers
Central Radiodiagnosis of the Community of Madrid, from the census list
electoral in which the data of the DNI number of those appears.

Such treatment could constitute an infringement of article 5,

Principles related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”
Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

III

The documentation in the file shows that the defendant
violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to the treatment, in relation to the
Article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, in relation to the incidence
produced: sending to an open whatsapp group of the electoral census list
including the voter ID number data.

This duty of confidentiality must be understood to have the purpose of avoiding
that leaks of the data are carried out without the consent of the holders of the same.
Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not
only to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

In the case examined, the processing of personal data that the delegate
CSIF union carried out through the publication, through an open group in
the whatsapp social network aimed at the majority of the Unit's workers
Central Radiodiagnosis of the Community of Madrid, from the census list
electoral in which it appeared in addition to the name and surnames, the data of the DNI number
of the voters would be lawful as long as the premises of article 6.1 of the RGPD are met.
In light of what is indicated in the aforementioned article, only personal data may be processed.
when they have the consent of the persons in question, in the exercise of a
contractual obligation, to comply with a legal obligation, when the treatment
is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest, to
protect the vital interests of the data subject or to satisfy the legitimate interests of
Her organization.

In short, the processing of the claimant's personal data carried out
out would only be lawful as long as any of the premises of the aforementioned
article 6.1 of the RGPD.

Thus, there would be no legal basis to legitimize the processing of personal data
of the claimant for the purpose pursued based on the consent, which in the
This case does not occur since the claimant opposes it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

There will also be no legal protection for the publication of the data in the form in

that has been made, through an open whatsapp group.

The Workers' Statute in its article 74, Functions of the Board, indicates
that “In the case of elections to members of the works council, constituted the
The electoral table will request the employer the labor census and will draw up, with the
means that will be provided by this, the list of voters. This will be made public in
bulletin boards through their exposure for a time not less than seventy-seven
two hours".

On the other hand, article 6.2 of Royal Decree 1844/1994, of September 9,
which approves the Regulations for elections to Representative Bodies of
Workers in the Company provides that: "In the elections for Delegates of
Staff and members of the Company Committee, communicated to the company the purpose
to hold elections for its promoters, it, within seven days, will give
transfer of said communication to the workers who must constitute the table and in
the same term will send to the components of the electoral table the labor census,
indicating the workers who meet the age and seniority requirements, in
the terms of article 69.2 of the Workers' Statute, necessary to hold
the condition of voters and eligible.

The electoral table will make public, among the workers, the labor census with
indication of who are voters and eligible in accordance with article 69.2 of the
Workers' Statute, which will be considered for voting purposes as a list
of voters.

In the case of elections for Company Committees, the list of voters and
eligible will be made public on bulletin boards for a period of time not less than
seventy-two hours

Also the Regulation of elections of the personnel to the service of the
Public Administrations approved by Royal Decree 1846/1994, of 9
September in its article 14, Electoral Census, establishes:

"1. The Administration will send the officials who must constitute the table
electoral coordinator or, where appropriate, to the single electoral table the census of
officials adjusted to the normalized model, within twelve business days
from the reception of the letter of promotion of elections.

In the aforementioned census, the name, two surnames, sex, date
of birth, national identity document and seniority recognized in the
public function, of all officials of the electoral unit.

2. The coordinating electoral table will draw up the list of voters,
in accordance with article 16 of Law 9/1987, with the means that will facilitate the
Management.

In the event of elections to Personnel Boards, the list will be made public in the
bulletin boards through their exposure for a time not less than seventy-seven
two hours.

Once the claims to the provisional list have been received, submitted until
twenty-four hours after the expiry of the period of exposure mentioned in the
previous section, the coordinating electoral table will resolve them and publish the list
final number of voters within twenty-four hours following the end of the
procedure described above. In the same period, it will determine the number of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

representatives to be elected in the electoral unit, in accordance with
Articles 5 and 8 of Law 9/1987.

(…)
And in its article 18 "Elections to Personnel Delegates", it states that:
"1. In the case of elections to Personnel Delegates, the managing body
personnel, within the same period of article 7 of this Regulation, will send to the
components of the electoral table census of officials, which will be adjusted, to these
effects, to normalized model.

2. The electoral table will fulfill the following functions:
a) Will make the census public among officials indicating who they are

voters.

b) Will set the number of representatives and the deadline for the presentation of

applications.

(…)”
In view of the transcribed precepts there is no legal basis for publication
of the data in the form in which it has been made, names and surnames together with the number of
DNI, through an open whatsapp group in which the majority of
the workers of the Central Unit of Radiodiagnosis of the Community of
Madrid.

Who has the responsibility to publish the census data is the Table
Electoral and the aforementioned publication must be made on the bulletin board so that
can be endorsed by the voters in order to rectify possible errors.

And this publication on the board does not violate the legislation on the protection
of personal data. Finally, it must be said that the GDPR does not
express mention of this particular particular, therefore, does not modify the legislation
had to date.

The respondent considers that the basis that legitimizes the treatment of the data of the
claimant is in the legitimate interest, that is, that the treatment of the
personal data made through the publication on the social network watsapp
sought to satisfy the exercise of the right to freedom of association.

However, this requires that the interests pursued do not prevail over those
interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that require the
protection of personal data, that is, it requires weighing the interests at stake
to conclude whether or not the right to freedom of association should prevail over the right
of the claimant to his privacy.

Regarding legitimate interest as a legal basis for data processing

of third parties, Recital 47 of the RGPD says:

<<The legitimate interest of a data controller, including that of a
responsible to which personal data may be communicated, or of a third party, may
constitute a legal basis for the treatment, provided that the
interests or the rights and freedoms of the interested party, taking into account the
reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship with the
responsible. Such legitimate interest could occur, for example, when there is a relationship
relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the controller, such as in situations where
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

which the interested party is a client or is at the service of the person in charge. In any case,
the existence of a legitimate interest would require careful assessment, even if
a data subject can reasonably foresee, at the time and in the context of the
collection of personal data, which may be processed for this purpose. In
particular, the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject could
prevail over the interests of the data controller when proceeding to the
processing of personal data in circumstances in which the interested party does not
reasonably expect further treatment to take place. Since it corresponds
the legislator to establish by law the legal basis for the processing of personal data
by public authorities, this legal basis should not apply to
treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions. The
processing of personal data strictly necessary for the prevention
of fraud also constitutes a legitimate interest of the data controller.
that it is Processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes
can be considered carried out for legitimate interest.>>

In accordance with the facts at hand, it must be concluded that the
treatment carried out by the CSIF union delegate, through the publication
in a whatsapp group containing the majority of the Unit's workers
Central Radiodiagnosis of the Community of Madrid, I provide information that does not
was pertinent for the purposes of exercising the aforementioned freedom of association, quite the opposite
since the data provided, census list that included the personal data
of the DNI, must be classified as excessive.

The processing of data concerning the workers included in the list
of the census released is not lawful because it did not find protection in the article
6.1.f) of the RGPD.

In consideration of the foregoing, taking into account that the union delegate of the
CSIF illicitly processed certain personal data that were unrelated to the interests
trade unions at stake revealing the ID number of the people who are members of the
whasapp group, it is concluded that the claimed party is responsible for an infraction of the
article 5.1.f), in relation to article 6.1 of the RGPD.

The violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD is typified in article 83.5.a)
of the GDPR. The LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72.1.a) qualifies this
very serious offense.

IV

The respondent has argued that the weighting between the
exercise of the right to freedom of association and the right to data protection
personal, and freedom of association must prevail in the event that the union has
acted in legitimate exercise of his right to freedom of association in the aspect of his
right to report on matters of interest to workers.

With regard to the right to freedom of association, it should be noted that the
Trade union organizations have recognized a series of competencies for the
exercise of their trade union functions of representation and that are protected by the
right to freedom of association recognized in article 28.1 of the Constitution,
developed through Organic Law 11/1985, of August 2, on Trade Union Freedom.
Union activity includes the right to promote elections and present
candidatures for the election of works councils and personnel delegates, which
it implies the realization of an electoral campaign and the publication of an electoral census.
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

Well, in the present case and as evidenced by the proven facts and
points out in previous foundations the incidence produced refers to the publication to
through an open whatsapp group of the electoral census list in which it appears
the DNI number data.

The freedom of association law recognizes in its article 8.1.c) the right to receive the
information sent by your union and in the same article, section 2.a)
recognizes the right that in order to facilitate the dissemination of those notices
that may be of interest to union members and workers in general, the
The company will put at your disposal a bulletin board that must be placed in the
work center and in a place where adequate access to it is guaranteed for employees.
workers.

In the case we are examining, the right to freedom of association materialized in the
information provided through the social network is fully satisfied without the need
to go to said media, so nothing bears the right to freedom of association.

It is essential to take into consideration that no obligation had the
union to make public the electoral census with the inclusion of personal data of the
workers and this because the regulation of union elections is nothing
imposes in this regard as stated above.

Based on the foregoing, it must be concluded that the action of the appellant Union
has notably exceeded the limits in which its action was protected
for the legitimate performance of their freedom of association and for having omitted publicity
carried out through the social network would not have entailed any kind of impairment in
relation to the exercise of freedom of association and, on the contrary, would have safeguarded the
right of the claimant in relation to personal data as relevant as the
DNI.

v

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

And the LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

SAW

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.
In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

data.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."
In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD
for which CSI-CESIF is responsible, in an initial assessment, it is estimated
concurrent the following factors:

The merely local scope of the treatment carried out by the entity

claimed.

The number of treatment and people affected by the offending conduct,
all of them members of the Central Unit of Radiodiagnosis of the Community of
Madrid.

There is no evidence that the respondent entity has adopted measures to prevent the

produce similar incidents.

There is no evidence that the defendant had acted maliciously,

although the performance reveals a lack of diligence.

The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

Personal data.

The entity claimed is not considered a large company, although
represents a large number of affiliates among the workers and employees of the country.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

 
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE INDEPENDENT TRADE UNION CENTRAL AND
CSI-CSIF OFFICIALS, with NIF G79514378, for an infraction of article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, and considered for the purposes of
prescription as very serious in article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, a sanction of
€3,000 (three thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CENTRAL SINDICAL
INDEPENDENT AND OFFICIALS CSI-CSIF, with NIF G79514378.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

