1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00014/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated September 19, 2020, entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection, a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed
at ***ADDRESS.1, with indications of a possible breach of the provisions
in the personal data protection regulations.

The claimant states that “I have detected that my neighbors on ***ADDRESS.1 street,
have installed a hidden camera in the flowerpot on their balcony, focusing
straight onto my balcony (I'm from the adjoining farm), and possibly my driveway
main (I do not know the exact angle of vision) as well as public road. There is not
any signaling about the existence of this camera in a public area/street.”

Attach photographic report of the location of the cameras.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

Given the lack of proof of receipt of said transfer in October 2020,
proceeded to reiterate the same, in November 2020, without there being any
proof of receipt.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of January 13
of 2021.

FOURTH: On February 16, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of
these data and by which Directive 95/46/CE (hereinafter, RGPD) is repealed,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On May 18, 2021, this Agency entered the
allegations presented by the respondent, who, in summary, indicates that he does not reside in
the claimed address.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

In addition, he indicates that during his visits to said home he has never seen a security camera.
some video surveillance installed, and therefore, there is no sign.

“(…) Mr. B.B.B. nor does he reside on the farm where the camera supposedly exists, nor is he
owner of said dwelling nor does he have any contract or title over it (...)”

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On September 19, 2020, it entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection claim for the installation of a security camera
video surveillance hidden in the planter on the balcony of the defendant, oriented towards the
claimant's home and towards the public road, without any information sign
video surveillance area.

SECOND: The respondent, in his pleadings brief, has indicated that he does not reside in
the claimed address.

In addition, he indicates that during his visits to said home he has never seen a security camera.
some video surveillance installed, and therefore, there is no sign.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

On September 19, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection claim for the installation of a video surveillance camera
hidden in the planter on the balcony of the requested person, oriented towards the home of the
claimant and towards the public road, without there being any informative sign of the area
video surveillance.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides that personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding intimidating
neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control transit areas
of them without just cause.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations, as this is
exclusive jurisdiction of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

The treatment of images through a video surveillance system, to be
In accordance with current regulations, it must meet the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Specifically, at least one badge must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with the purpose
to intimidate them or affect their privacy without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

III

The respondent, in his pleadings brief of May 18, 2021, has indicated that
does not reside at the claimed address. In addition, he indicates that during his visits to said
address has never seen any video surveillance camera installed, and therefore, not
there is a poster

Examining the file as a whole, it has not been proven that the
responsible for the installation of the video surveillance system is the one claimed.

Therefore, according to the above,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the ARCHIVE of these proceedings as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-131120

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

