1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00211/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 19, 2018, Ms. AAA, (hereinafter, the
claimant) filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency
against INFOFREAK for having shown his email address to the rest of
email recipients who, like him, were listed as recipients of the
shipment that was sent to you by that company.

The claimant attaches a copy of an email sent, dated March 24,
April 2018, from the email address soporte@infofreak.es to a total
of 38 recipients whose email accounts,- among which is
the email address ***EMAIL.1 of the claimant-, appear visible to all
they. Apologies are requested in the shipment for the delay in the service of an order,
confirming a new delivery date.
SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, dated January 15, 2019
from the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection, the website was accessed
***URL.1 proving that B.B.B., (hereinafter, the claimed), appears as
owner of the infobreak.es domain.

On January 28, 2019, said claim was transferred to the respondent
by means of a shipment sent through the Sociedad Estatal Correos y Telégrafos, S.A. to
*** ADDRESS.1, being returned by "Surplus" (Not picked up at the office) on 13
February 2019, after having attempted delivery on January 30 and 5
February 2019 at that known address and be “Absent” on both occasions
On May 21, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the
claimant, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.5 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), and for the purposes provided in article
64.2 of the same standard.

THIRD: On June 27, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

In said initial agreement it was agreed that, if the existence of the
described infringement, and for the purposes provided in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, in the
resolution that, in his case, could fall, the claimed person would be ordered to carry out
of certain corrective measures, the details of which were specified in the aforementioned
start agreement. Likewise, the deadline for accrediting before this Agency was indicated.
its adoption once the sanctioning resolution has been notified.
FOURTH: Attempted to notify the respondent of the aforementioned initiation agreement through the
Post and Telegraph State Society, S.A. at ***ADDRESS.2 was returned to
origin on July 3, 2019 due to an incorrect address, which is why an attempt was made
practice said notification at ***ADDRESS.1, resulting in being returned to origin with
date July 11, 2019 by unknown in the same.

Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of articles 44, 45 and 46 of the
Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Procedure of the Administrations
Public, proceeded to publish an announcement of notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in
the Official State Gazette No. XXX, dated ***DATE.1. In the announcement published in
Said Bulletin indicates that the notification will be understood to have been produced for all purposes
legal from the day following the expiration of the period of 10 business days set
to appear, counted from the day following the publication of the announcement.

There is no evidence that the defendant has appeared within the period indicated in the
outlined announcement nor that produced the notification of said act, has exercised its
right to defense by formulating a written statement or presenting evidence in the
period granted for such purposes.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

PROVEN FACTS

First: On April 24, 2018, the claimant received an email
from the email address support@infofreak.es addressed to a total of 38
recipients whose email accounts, including the
email address ***EMAIL.1 of the claimant, were visible to
the rest of the recipients of the shipment.

Second: In the e-mail outlined in the previous proven fact, they request
apologies from the InfoFreak firm for the delay in the service of an order, to
the pair that a new delivery date is confirmed.

Third: On January 15, 2019, it is verified that on the website ***URL.1 the
claimed appears as the owner of the domain infofreak.es

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 55.1, 56.2 and 58.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal information and the free circulation of these data (General Protection Regulation
of Data, hereinafter RGPD) recognizes each control authority, and according to what
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

established in articles 47 and 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to resolve this procedure.
 

II

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, of October 2, 2015, in
hereinafter LPACAP, provides that:

“The initiation agreement must contain at least: (…)
  f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event
of not making allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the resolution of
initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility.”

In the present case, the content of the agreement to initiate the procedure
observed the prescription detailed in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, which is why
which, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned precept, the initial agreement
of this sanctioning procedure is considered a Resolution Proposal,
since it contained a precise pronouncement about the responsibility
imputed, and, after notification in the manner described in the factual record
fourth of this resolution, the respondent has not made allegations to the same in the
period granted for such purposes.

III

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:
“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

7) «responsible for the treatment>> or <<responsible>>: the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others,
determine the purposes and means of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the
Member States determines the purposes and means of processing, the data controller
treatment or the specific criteria for their appointment may be established by the
Law of the Union or of the Member States; >>

10) <<third party>>: natural or legal person, public authority, service or
body other than the interested party, the data controller, the person in charge of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

treatment and of the persons authorized to treat personal data under the
direct authority of the person in charge or the person in charge;

In accordance with these definitions, the treatment of email addresses
e-mail of the recipients of the shipment under study constitutes a
processing of personal data, in respect of which the person responsible for the
treatment, in this case, the claimed that in its capacity as sender of the shipment
has used the email addresses of the recipients of the same, you must
comply with the principles related to treatment, among which is the
principle of confidentiality contained in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Please note that the email addresses used for the
remission of the aforementioned shipment provide information on natural persons
identified or identifiable.

IV

In the present case, the defendant is charged with a breach of article 5.1. of
RGPD, precept that under the heading "Principles related to treatment", establishes in
its section f) that:

“Personal data will be:
(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational (<<integrity and confidentiality>>)”

In relation to said precept, article 32.1.b) and 2 of the RGPD, regarding the

“Security of treatment”, establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

(…)
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

(…)

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data. “

For its part, under the heading "Duty of confidentiality", article 5 of the

LOPDGDD provides that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment.”

In the present case, the claimant has provided a copy of an email
sent by the respondent, dated April 24, 2018, to a total of thirty-eight
recipients, including the claimant, without hiding from each of them
the email addresses of the rest of the recipients of the shipment, since the
claimed did not use blind copy option when sending from email
support@infofreak.es.

Said conduct constitutes, on the part of the claimed party, owner of the domain
infobreak.es and responsible for the aforementioned processing of personal data, a
violation of the principle of confidentiality contained in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD,
since by being visible the email addresses of all the
recipients of the shipment disseminated that personal information among all of them.

v

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD provide the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

Article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for the

imposition of administrative fines”, in sections 1 and 5.a) states that:

""1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

  "5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned,
according to paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount:

“a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”

At the same time, article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD typifies the infringement of
principle of confidentiality as very serious for prescription purposes in
following terms: “1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the mentioned articles
in that and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the facts that have been proven, and in view of the
reasoned on the basis of the previous law, the defendant is responsible for
a violation of the principle of confidentiality contained in article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation and qualified
as a very serious infringement for prescription purposes in article 72.1.a) of the
LOPDGDD.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, it is considered appropriate to impose the sanction of warning
provided for in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD in view of the following circumstances: the
The main activity of the respondent is not linked to the usual treatment of
Personal data; that the recipients of the shipment were affected by the
same matter on which they were informed; consider that the administrative fine
that could be imposed in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the RGPD
would constitute a disproportionate burden for the respondent, who is not aware of the
Commission of any previous infringement in terms of data protection.

Confirmed the infraction described, it is not accredited in the procedure
that the respondent has implemented technical and organizational measures aimed at
to guarantee the security and confidentiality of the data in treatments that,
like the one studied, affect a group of holders of e-mail addresses
email that are going to be recipients of the same shipment, so as to prevent the
improper access of each of them to the email addresses of the
other recipients. Based on the foregoing, it is considered appropriate to apply the provisions of
the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD in order for the claimed party to take
carry out the necessary actions (technical and organizational measures) to adapt the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

data processing operations similar to the one studied at the beginning of
confidentiality contained in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in order to avoid the dissemination of
the emails of the recipients of a shipment among the rest
recipients of the message when said data communication is not
legitimized.

It is noted that section 6 of article 83 of the RGPD, establishes that “6. The
Failure to comply with the resolutions of the supervisory authority pursuant to article 58,
paragraph 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”
Article 72.1.m) provides that: “1. According to what the article establishes
83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe to
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following: (...)

m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority of
competent data protection in exercise of the powers conferred by article
58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and valued the

concurrent circumstances in the facts that have been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, a sanction of WARNING
in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, as responsible for
an infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.a) of the GDPR.

SECOND: ORDER to B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, in accordance with the provisions
in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the adoption and implementation of technical measures
and organizational measures to guarantee the confidentiality of the data
concerning the email addresses of a set of recipients
of the same shipment when there is no legitimacy for its communication or dissemination to
third parties, using the option of sending with a blind copy in order not to reveal the
email addresses of the same to the remaining recipients. sayings
The measures must be adopted within a period of one month, counting from the day after
the one in which the defendant is notified of the sanctioning resolution, and must provide
the means of proof accrediting its compliance.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

