1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00434/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated August 11, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against BAR EL SOLAR DE HILARIO with NIF 72078121P (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are
succinctly the following:

“That being on the terrace-parking lot of the “Solar de Hilario” Bar, in the
Avenida de España 1520 in Mogro (Miengo), we realized that the owner of the
bar is recording with at least two cameras not indicated on any poster, and
concealed in the part of the roof, placed both for the terrace and for areas
streets, when the Organic Law on Data Protection does not allow users to
video surveillance systems capture images of people outside
of private space or recording of public space”

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the
presence of two simulated devices on the facade with evident orientation towards
public space.

SECOND: On 09/07/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the
entity denounced to prove the legality of the system, not having received
no response to date.

THIRD: On March 3, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 04/27/21 cooperation is requested from the Local Police (City Hall
Miengo) so that, transferred to the scene of the events, they can prepare the Act-Complaint accrediting
do the possible infraction described, without any response having been given in this regard.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

II

In the present case, the claim dated 08/11/20 is examined by me-
from which the main fact is transferred as "the presence of two video cameras-
Surveillance installed in a hidden way on the facade of the Bar Solar De Hilario with
obvious orientation towards public space.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras should preferably be oriented towards the space
particular, avoiding intimidating neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well
how to control their transit areas without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining
images of public space or transit area of third parties, outside the cases permitted
ted in the regulations.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning party, it is not possible to determine the commission of any infraction, given the lack
of response to this Agency of the claimed.

Given that no documentary evidence of the access door is provided, nor of the
higher than it, it is not possible to determine if it has an informative poster or not,
informing that it is a "video-surveillance area", so the infraction in principle
pio is limited to the installation of exterior cameras with excessive capture of the area of
public transit without just cause.

Article 42 of the legislation on private security (law 5/2014, April 5) indicates
also the following: “cameras or video cameras may not be used for security purposes.
private security to take images and sounds of roads and public spaces or access
public use except in the cases and under the terms and conditions provided for in its regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

specific requirement, prior administrative authorization by the competent body in
each case".

Therefore, surveillance cameras on public roads may not be installed by companies.
private security prisoners or by ordinary citizens, for example, to monitor their ve-
Cindarian.

Known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to the claimant.
mado, for violation of article 5.1 c) RGPD.

However, repeatedly requesting the collaboration of the Authorities
authorities of the locality, so that they can be transferred to the scene of the events and certify
mentally manifested by the claimant, no answer has been given to
this Agency.

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the criminals has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
thor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

The mere presence of the cameras does not certify their operability or
that these without the due verification in situ are badly oriented towards the zone of
public character.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

v

According to the above, it has not been possible to determine the commission of the infringement
any administrative action in the reported establishment.

It is worth remembering the possibility of filing a new claim with the Local Police.
cal (Ayuntamiento Luengo) which is responsible for transferring this body
of all the necessary documentation to assess the commission of an infraction
as described, after drawing up the mandatory Act (Complaint) at the scene of the events.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimed BAR EL SOLAR DE
HILARIO and INFORM the AAA claimant of the result of the proceedings.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

