1/16

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00247/2019

RESOLUTION R/00296/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00247/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to GLOBAL BUSINESS TRAVEL SPAIN S.L.U.,
In view of the complaint filed by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 30, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against GLOBAL BUSINESS
TRAVEL SPAIN S.L.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), by means of the Agreement
transcribe:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00247/2019

935-240719

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On 02/13/2019 it had entry in the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data (AEPD) a claim from D.ª A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) against
the entity GLOBAL BUSINESS TRAVEL SPAIN, S.L.U., with NIF B85376630 (in
later, the claimed one).

The claimant states as a basis for her claim that an employee of
the claimed company has accessed your health data and has communicated it, to the
least, two other employees of that entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

It states that the head of Prevention of Occupational Risks opened, scanned and
e-mailed to his immediate boss, with a copy to her, the results of the
medical tests that were carried out in a recognition promoted by the company and
no, as would have been correct, only the report issued by the Mutual with the conclusion
fit or unfit for work. He adds that the Mutual had sent the company
claimed the results of your medical tests in a sealed envelope addressed to your
care and that your health data was also communicated to other people in the
company as D.ª B.B.B.

The claimant explains that she has rendered her services in the claimed entity
as a company travel agent until 01/02/2019 and that on 10/15/2018 it was
a medical examination at the Mutua Valore Prevention that was necessary to
joining to work in the facilities of a client company that required the "apt
doctor” for outside workers to access the building. That, made the
tests, and pending the results of the analysis, the Mutual provided him with a suitable
provisional and agreed to deliver the definitive fit to the work center once
received. He states that, 15 days after the medical examination, he requested
the Mutual by telephone to upload to the web the result of the recognition of what
she replied that because she had been on sick leave for a long time, they could not
send it online and that they would send it printed to the company's central office and headquarters
social, at ***ADDRESS.1, indicating that it had been sent by mail on
10/29/2018 so it would be close to being received.

He explains that after the conversation with the Mutual, he sent an email to
his superior boss, D.C.C.C., to inform him that his medical examination was
soon to be received at the headquarters and ask him that, since he had planned
make a visit to the facilities of the client company where she was
displaced working, will take it in person. And in case the mail doesn't
had arrived before said visit, I asked him to be pending to notify her and
she would stop by the offices of the claimed person to pick it up personally. Add that
D.C.C.C He replied that he was proceeding to forward his email to D. D.D.D., responsible for
prevention of occupational risks of the company to help him.

The claimant states that on 11/05/2018, on the occasion of the visit that D.C.C.C.
made to the facilities where he worked, informed him that the
written medical report “but that another boss, B.B.B., already had the fit report
definitive and that it had already been uploaded to the client's platform and that I should not worry”.

On 11/08/2018, read an email received the day before sent by D. D.D.D.,
responsible for occupational hazards, to the claimant's boss, D. C.C.C., with a copy to her,
with which it annexes, in addition to the report of the apt, the complete result of the
medical examination photocopied and scanned in black and white.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

The claimant alleges that the medical information came in a sealed envelope to her
name with the indication that it was confidential and that D. D.D.D., after
scanning the results received, destroyed the document in which they were collected.

Attach to your claim, among others, a copy of the following documents:

- Email dated 05/11/2018 sent by D. D.D.D. "For"
prevention of occupational risks, with a copy to the claimant, which includes
as “Subject” “RV:
 assesses prevention informs-medical examination
A.A.A." The text is as follows: “E.E.E., please, can you do the
efforts so that A.A.A. can continue entering Iberdrola. Many
Thank you".

- Email sent on 07/11/2018 by D. D.D.D. “for” C.C.C. with copy
to the claimant. A pdf document is attached. The text of the message is
following: "Hello, I just received the report from A.A.A., I'll send it to you scanned".

- Email that the claimant sends on 11/16/2018 to the department of
Human Resources (HR), to the attention of F.F.F.. Explain that you are writing this
email to record a very serious incident.

- Email sent to the claimant by "Human Resources" on
12/04/2019 in which it appears as "Subject" "Incident medical examination
A.A.A." In their text they lament what happened; confirm that D.D.D.D. had talked
with the complainant apologizing and informing her that the company has
made the appropriate steps so that all the documentation sent is
eliminated and means have been established so that this does not happen again.

SECOND: A. In accordance with the mechanism prior to the admission for processing of the
claims made before the AEPD, provided for in article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), within the framework of E/4046/2019, are
transferred the claim to the respondent so that she could proceed to analyze it and give
response within one month to the requested information.

The document was notified to the claimed party electronically, being the date of
available in the electronic office on 04/12/2019 and the date of acceptance of the
notification on 04/15/2019 as evidenced by the certificate issued by the FNMT that
work on file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

After the period of one month granted to evacuate the procedure, the claimed

had not responded to the information request from the AEPD.

B. On 06/18/2019, after analyzing the documentation in the file, the
Director of the AEPD issued a resolution within the framework of E/ 7551/2019, in which she agreed
accept the claim for processing.

 

The aforementioned agreement was notified to the claimant and, as a result of a
incident in the electronic management of notifications, also to the GLOBAL entity
BUSINESS TRAVEL SPAIN S.L.U., the claimed party.

Article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD provides that "The decision on the admission or
inadmissibility for processing, (...), the claimant must be notified within a period of three months”
(the underlining is from the AEPD). This Agency, in compliance with such provision,
communicates the admission agreements for processing to those claimed.

The fact that the respondent entity was improperly notified of the
agreement for admission to processing together with the fact that the aforementioned agreement did not specify who was
the recipient of the notification -because it is unnecessary since only the recipient is notified
claimant- and at the same time granted the "interested parties" the possibility of
filing an optional appeal for reconsideration, led the respondent to estimate that
was entitled to appeal the admission agreement.

The circumstances reported gave rise to the respondent filing before
this Agency an optional appeal for reversal against the admission agreement to
procedure in which he requested that the aforementioned agreement be rescinded (RR/120/2020).

The Agency -as stated in the resolution of RR/120/2020)- chose to give
course of the aforementioned appeal despite the fact that the appellant was not entitled to appeal (ex
article 112.1 of Law 39/2015 of the Common Administrative Procedure, hereinafter
LPACAP). This Agency -taking into account that, effectively, the
appellant the agreement of admission to processing of the claim and taking into account that
the text of the aforementioned agreement led to the erroneous interpretation that
was entitled to appeal - responded to the appeal filed. The resolution
dismissal of RR/120/2020 was notified to the complainant and appellant on
05/11/2020 (date of acceptance of the electronic notification).

The appellant, now the respondent, has stated that the claimant spent the
medical examination before the Mutual on 09/15/2019 and informed his immediate boss,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

C.C.C., that, given that the report would reach the company, “as soon as I received it, I would
send it to Iberdrola (not to bring it, as the complaint says). Note that I don't know
specified in the A.A.A. how the shipment should be made, that is, if
by post, email or other means, unless you send it to
Iberdrola”.

He added that the Mutua Valora report reached the headquarters of the claimed entity
on 11/07/2019, by mail "in an envelope addressed to the entity" "so given the
emergency situation, as explained, the person responsible for risk prevention
labor D.D.D., scanned it and sent it immediately, by email in the
email chain where the subject was being discussed and in which it was, in addition to
A.A.A. …, your immediate boss C.C.C.”

The respondent has affirmed that after learning of what happened, she adopted various
measures: he requested the people involved and who could have had contact with the
record an explanation and the immediate deletion of the information. The address of
HR of the entity requested information from the occupational risk prevention technician
who responded via email on 11/19/2018, a copy of which is provided. Add that this
person, D.D.D.D. left the company on 03/26/2019 without specifying the reasons.
He also states that he requested information about the incident from D.C.C.C. Y
Ms. B.B.B. and that the Technology Department proceeded to erase the
terminals of D. D.D.D. and Dª. C.C.C. of the transmitted report.

The respondent attached to her writ of appeal for reconsideration, among other

documents, the following emails:

- Sent by the claimant to D.C.C.C. on 05/11/2018:

 “(…) I have contacted Valora Prevention because I have received the email to
to request a date for the medical examination when I did it last
October 15th (…). They inform me in Valora that …the medical report does not
they put it on the web so you can download it, but they print it and send it
to ***ADDRESS.1 to my attention. I have been told that they printed it on
last October 29, so if it has not arrived, it will be about to arrive
the office. I inform you of it in case they deliver it to you and if you can send it to me
to Iberdrola.”

- Posted by D.D.D.D. on 11/09/2018: “(…) The complete report on his
acknowledgment I received it at the office on Monday and after scanning it and sending it to
I destroyed, can you please request that they send her the full report of
new??"

- Sent by “Prevention” to “G.G.G., H.H.H., Human Resources…” on
11/19/2018: “As A.A.A. in the mail, it's true, from Valora
They sent the report of their reconnaissance to my attention at the office of
Barcelona and by mistake I scanned it and sent it to him without realizing that it was
replying to an email from C.C.C. instead of her alone…”

- Posted by D.C.C.C. to D.D.D.D. on 11/28/2018: “I confirm that this
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

6/16

document was deleted that same day since I only opened the page that said
it was SUITABLE TO WORK ON IMPLANTS. The rest I didn't get to look at."

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers”, states:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine under Article 83, in addition to or instead of
of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of the
particular case

(…)”

III

The RGPD deals in article 5 with the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them those of "integrity and
confidentiality”:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing or against
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational (<<integrity and confidentiality>>)

Article 5.2. GDPR adds:

“The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

Framed in chapter IV, “Responsible for the treatment and in charge of the
treatment”, the RGPD dedicates article 32 to the “Security of treatment” precept
that has:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-
permanent silence of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to personal data
promptly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment
I lie.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
torized to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
feel article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee
warrant that any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge
do and have access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the
Union or of the Member States. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4 in the following terms:

  “Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge in accordance with the articles

8,11,25 to 39, 42 and 43;”

For prescription purposes, Organic Law 3/2018, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantees of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) qualifies as infringement
serious in its article 73.f) “The lack of adoption of those technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679”

IV

The conduct that is the subject of this claim is specified in the opening
by an employee of the claimed entity - the head of Risk Prevention
Labor- of the envelope containing the results of the medical tests carried out on
the claimant by the Mutual, which, presumably, was addressed to the attention of the
claimant; in scanning it and communicating it by email to other employees
of the company.

The documentation that is in the file provided by the claimed
corroborates that the claimant's medical report that the respondent received from the
Mutua Valore was opened by D. D.D.D., scanned and emailed as
document attached both to D. C.C.C., the claimant's boss, and to herself. Us
In this sense, we refer to the email of 11/19/2018 sent from “Prevention”,
we understand that by D. D.D.D., to Human Resources.

On the other hand, according to the documents provided by the claimant and the
claimed there is no evidence that the head of Occupational Risk Prevention had
known the information that was included in the document.

In addition to the above consideration, D. C.C.C., head of the claimant, who
As shown, he received an email from D. D.D.D. which contained as file

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

I attach the document with the results of the medical tests of the affected,
stated in the email sent on 11/28/2018 that he only opened the page that
said that the claimant was fit to work on inplants and that the rest of the
document did not get to look at it.

The Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National High Court has held
repeatedly in its resolutions, during the validity of the Organic Law
15/1999, on the protection of personal data (LOPD), that the violation of the
principle of confidentiality, inasmuch as it is an infraction of result, presupposes that
there has been an effective disclosure of data to a third party not entitled to
know them. In such a way that, although the behavior displayed could give rise to a
disclosure of data to third parties, if this has not occurred in a
effective and has been accredited - without the simple presumption being admissible - it is not
possible to impute an infraction of that nature; violation of the duty established by the
article 10 of the repealed LOPD and which currently includes article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

Thus, in this stage of the procedure, and without prejudice to the result of the
instruction, there is no evidence to attribute to the claimed, as alleged by the
claimant, a violation of the principle of confidentiality.

 

The documentation in the file shows that the
claimed did not have implemented among its personnel the action criteria
with respect to documents of a private nature that contained health data of the
employees. Moreover, except for the email sent by D. C.C.C. at the end
November 2018, it seems that company staff give the same treatment
to the report issued by the Mutual on the condition of fit or not fit for work
than the result of the medical tests to which the claimant underwent.

Article 32 of the RGPD obliges the data controller to adopt the measures
measures that guarantee that any person acting under their authority and having access
to personal data can only process said data following the instructions of the person in charge.
saber. And in turn, these instructions must be based on a prior assessment of the
risk involved in each of the treatments carried out for the due guarantee
data security aunt. Especially when the claim, in compliance with the
occupational health policy implemented by client companies (in this
Iberdrola case) was fully aware that those of its employees who
transferred to the implant had to undergo a medical examination and that the “in-
form of fit for work” that had to be communicated to the aforementioned client company was
together with the results of the medical tests carried out, results that
contained health data for the treatment of which the claimed company lacked legislation
fraud.

In this line of argument, Recital 74 of the RGPD says that "It must be
established the responsibility of the data controller for any
processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In particular,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

The person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures and must
be able to demonstrate the conformity of the treatment activities with the present
Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must take into
account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” (The underlining is from the
AEPD)

In accordance with the evidence available at this stage of the
procedure and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, it is estimated that the
conduct of the defendant that is assessed in this file
sanctioning -specified in the opening of the envelope with the results of the tests
medical examinations to which the claimant underwent at the Mutua Valore, in the scan of the
document and in its submission by email, to at least one employee of the
entity- violates article 32.2 and 32.4 of the RGPD, infraction sanctioned in article
83.4.a, of the GDPR.

v

In order to specify the amount of the administrative fine that would correspond
impose must be in accordance with the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD,
precepts that state:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

Circumstances are taken into consideration as aggravating

following:

- Article 83.2.f) of the RGPD that refers to the "degree of cooperation with the
control authority in order to remedy the infraction and mitigate the possible
Adverse effects". Let us remember that the respondent did not respond to the request
information of this Agency, prior to the acceptance of the claim for processing, despite
that the correct reception of the notification of the written request is accredited
informative.

- Article 83.2.g) of the RGPD regarding the categories of character data
personnel affected by the infraction, since these were health data of the claimant.

- The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
processing of personal data, not only of its employees but also of people
for which the trips are managed since that is the business activity of
the company (article 83.2.k, of the RGPD in relation to article 76.2.b, of the
LOPDGDD)

As mitigating circumstances, the following circumstances would apply:
-The one provided for in article 83.2.a) RGPD, which refers to the seriousness of the infringement
taking into account, among other variables, the purpose of the treatment operation and
the level of damages that the affected party has suffered. The purpose of the operation
of treatment was lawful: transfer to the claimant the confidential results of her
medical tests, It was not, however, the form used for it. This is the
conduct in which the violation of the obligation incumbent on the
entity to adopt the measures that guarantee the security of the data and the
effectiveness of these measures. In addition, according to the documentation in the
There is no evidence in the file that the claimant has suffered considerable damages and
damages.

- The one provided for in article 83.2.k) of the RGPD that mentions “any other
mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case.” In this sense, it must
assess positively that before this Agency entered the claim
that concerns us (on 02/13/2019) the entity had activated internal mechanisms to
knowing the events that took place, had questioned the people involved in them
and ordered that all information relating to the
Claimant's medical results.

Thus, in accordance with the preceding exposition, we estimate that the
claimed incurred an infringement of article 32, sections 2 and 4, of the RGPD
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

sanctioned in article 83.4.a of the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2016/657 and that,
assessed the modifying circumstances of the responsibility, both adverse and
favorable, contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, the amount of the fine
administrative fee to be imposed would be 5,000 euros.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START A SANCTION PROCEDURE AGAINST GLOBAL BUSINESS
TRAVEL SPAIN S.L.U., with NIF B85376630, for the alleged infringement of article 32,
sections 2 and 4, of the RGPD typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and secretary S.S.S., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for the purpose of evidence, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
(LPACAP), the sanction that could correspond would be an administrative fine for
amount of €5,000 (five thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to GLOBAL BUSINESS TRAVEL SPAIN
S.L.U., with NIF B85376630, granting a hearing period of ten business days
to formulate the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate.
In your brief of allegations you must indicate your NIF and the number of the procedure that
appears at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations, the initial agreement may be
considered resolution proposal, according to what is established in article 64.2.f) of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

LPACAP.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that
the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement, which
will be accompanied by a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in the
present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at €4,000, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at €4,000 and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at €3,000.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, 40,000 euros or 30,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
actions, in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On June 6, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 3000 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00247/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to GLOBAL BUSINESS TRAVEL
SPAIN S.L.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

