 
 

  

  

 

 
 
Uniform rules for data protection fines in Europe

JOINT PRESS RELEASE
June 8, 2023
Berlin, Wiesbaden, Bonn
 
At its meeting of May 24, 2023, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB).
final guidelines for setting fines following a public consultation
taken. The practice of fines by the data protection supervisory authorities in Europe is now taking place
according to uniform standards. As representatives of the German data protection supervisory authority
were at the European level the data protection supervisory authorities of Berlin, Hesse and the
Federal involved.
 
In the event of violations of the General Data Protection Regulation, the European supervisory authorities
regulation (DSGVO) fines. These can be up to 20 million euros or at companies
up to 4 percent of global annual sales. With the guidelines that have now been adopted
the application of the legal requirements is being harmonized throughout Europe for the assessment of fines.
For this purpose, the guidelines provide for a five-step assessment procedure that
in particular the nature and severity of the violations and the turnover of the companies concerned
taken into account. The German supervisory authorities had previously dealt with the now superseded
Fine concept of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal government and
of the federal states (DSK) showed at the end of 2019 that even in a federal supervisory system, an association
harmonization of fine practice is possible.
 
Meike Kamp, Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI): "Through the
European guidelines for the assessment of fines, the procedure of the supervisory authorities in the
Sanctioning of data protection violations more transparent. The five-step procedure gives clear
rules for the assessment of fines and thus contributes to a more comprehensible
administrative action. I am pleased that the Berlin data protection authority developed this concept
decisively influenced and thus made an important contribution to further harmonization of the EU
has done European fine practice."
 
Prof. Dr. Alexander Roßnagel, Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
(HBDI): "With the adoption of the fine guidelines, there is an intensive exchange between
the Member States to a well-considered compromise. On the one hand, this carries the
different legal traditions in the EU member states and, on the other hand, provides
fundamental and long-awaited contribution to harmonizing the calculation of fines. Therefore
the necessary transparency of the penal assessment is now guaranteed, that of the immense amount
which takes fines into account.”
 

 

 


Prof. Ulrich Kelber, Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI):
“A decision that many departments have been eagerly awaiting for a long time. historical
For the first time, we now have a standardization of the practice of fines by data protection authorities
in different member states. The guidelines are therefore the logical next step in
of European integration and can also serve as a model and orientation for the implementation
other EU laws.”
 
The guidelines can be found on the EDPB website.
 
 
Contact for queries:
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
press office
+ 49 30 13889 900
presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
press office
+ 49 611 1408 119
poststelle@datenschutz.hessen.de
 
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
+49 228 997799 5100
pressestelle@bfdi.bund.de

Page 2 of 2

 

