 

 

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

CORRECT REPETITION
 

 

 

 

Athens, 12-10-2018
 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/7792/12-10-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

A P O F A S H A . 59/2018
 

    

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met, after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, in a regular meeting at its headquarters on 08-05-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to examine the case referred to in the present history.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The President of the Authority, Konstantinos Menudakos, and the regular members were present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Authority Konstantinos Christodoulou, Antonios ymbonis as rapporteur,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Pyridon Vlachopoulos, Konstantinos Lamprinoudakis, Charalambos Anthopoulos
 

 

 

 

 

 

and Eleni Martsoukou. they attended the meeting, without the right to vote
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also, by order of the President, Georgios Rousopoulos, expert scientist, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant rapporteur, and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of administrative affairs, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

Submitted to the Authority no. Prot. G/EI /1239/16-02-2017 complaint
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of A, journalist of the police/court reporting. according to her,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on Tuesday 14-02-2017 in the outer space of the Court of Appeal of Athens and at the same time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

trial of a case concerning "Golden Dawn" was a team
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

police officers. One of them was seen carrying, integrated in a special case at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his uniform, a device with portable camera features,. To prove her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

characteristic photos were also submitted to the complaint, while for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific incident there were various publications in the press and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic media.
 

 

The Authority, with the no. prot. C/EX/1239-1/20-02-2017 its document,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

 

 

sent a copy of the complaint to the Hellenic Police (hereinafter EL.A.),
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

asking for her views, as well as information on any actions taken for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

investigating the validity of the complaint. EL.A. answered with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. prot. ... (no. prot. Authority G/EI /2924/06-04-2017) her document, with which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stated that he proceeded to a thorough examination of the accused and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

found to be a 'power bank' type portable charger, cable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

connection, case and Bluetooth device, and put the case on file.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 following this document, the Authority, with the no. prot. G/EX/2924-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1/10-05-2017 her document requested more detailed information on the exact
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

characteristics of said devices. He also asked to be presented to her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any document of EL.A. regarding the investigation of the case. EL.A.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

replied to the Authority with no. first ... document (no. first. Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /4844/23-06-2017). with this it is stated that the powerbank type charger was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the TP LINK TL-PB 10400 model, dimensions 88.8 X 44.3 X 44.4
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mm, the bluetooth device was the SAMSUNG HM 7100 model (FCC
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ID:A3LHM7100) and the corresponding charging case model EB-K7100BE of the same
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company, dimensions 70 X 30 X 5 mm. From an examination of the specifications of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of devices on the manufacturer's website1 the declared ones are confirmed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dimensions of the specific charging device used
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exclusively in combination with the specific Bluetooth headset model.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

At the same time, EL.A. sent the correspondence regarding the internal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

investigation of the incident. As it follows from this, the Police Directorate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Attica Enterprises, as soon as he became aware of the complaints against the police officer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her, invited him to the building of G.A.D.A. where, in the presence of Mr. General Police
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Director of Attica, the Director of the Directorate of Police Operations of Attica and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commander of the Y.A.T., it was established that it was a portable power type charger
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bank, connection cable, case and Bluetooth device. The policeman pleaded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that he carried them in his uniform because the often difficult wireless communication with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

business center of G.A.D.A. necessitates the use of a telephone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication during the performance of his service. It was judged that they did not occur
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sufficient evidence to establish a disciplinary offense and the case was raised
 
                                                           

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

and
 
http://org.downloadcenter.samsung.com/downloadfile/ContentsFile.aspx?CDSite=UNI_AU&CttFileID=5408497&CDCtt

http://www.samsung.com/uk/consumer/mobile-devices/accessories/audio/BHM7100UBECXEU/
 

Type=UM&ModelType=N&ModelName=HM-

 
7100&VPath=UM/201305/20130509174904031/HM7100_UM_Eng_EU_Rev.1.1_130509.pdf&OriginYN=N

 

2
 

on file, from a disciplinary point of view.
 

 

 

 

 

Following the above, the Authority, with the no. prot. G/EX/6775/21-09-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her document, forwarded to EL.A. advisory note in which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submitted data. doubts are raised regarding this note
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

correctness of the examination of the incident by the services of EL.A.,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mainly due to incompatibility of their characteristics and dimensions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

devices with those shown in the photos, as it does not seem possible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to prove the claim that in the case of the uniform was placed o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific Bluetooth device charger and requested to submit,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing, her views.
 

 

 

 

 in response to the above document, EL.A. submitted the no. first...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its document (prot. no. Authority G/EI /1060/06-02-2018), in which it is repeated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the device was found to be a portable power bank type charger.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

He adds, in fact, that in order to maintain transparency to a superlative degree and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

real-time control of the incident, the depicted policeman with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

order of the General Police Director of Attica was taken to its offices
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G.A.D.A. where he provided explanations in the presence of high-ranking Police officials
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and showed off the portable charger, connecting cable, case and device
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bluetooth. He considers that the issue was examined by a multitude of Officers up to and including
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

higher service level and the finding that it was a charging device did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is open to dispute, so the case was well put on file.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, after hearing him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteur, who left after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion both before the conference and decision-making, and after thorough
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion,
 

 

 

 
1.

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 according to article 2 par. a' of Law 2472/1997 and the recitals
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14-17 in the preamble of Directive 95/46/EC, audio and video data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if they refer to persons, they constitute personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character.
 

 

2. With article 15 of Law 3917/2011 issued following the opinions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1/2009 and 2/2010 of the Authority regulates the use of surveillance systems with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

downloading or recording audio or video in public places. As defined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in article 14 of this law, the installation and operation of such
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

systems is allowed for "... c) the prevention and suppression of crimes i.e
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

constitute a matter of public order, d) prevention and suppression
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violent crimes, drug possession, and dangerous crimes,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

crimes against emotional security and crimes against her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ownership, when, based on factual evidence, there are sufficient indications that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

such acts were performed or are about to be performed..." (par. 1) only by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

state authorities provided that the principle of proportionality is observed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(par. 2).
 

 paragraph 4 of the aforementioned article provides for the issuance of a Presidential Decree
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decree that will specify the regulation. To date it has not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carried out. As indeed, it was pointed out repeatedly by the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(see annual report of the years 2015 (p. 121), 2014 (p. 105), 2013 (p. 114)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 2012 (p.102 and 103)), despite the fact that since 2012 a plan has been submitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by an established working group, processing has not progressed since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

competent Ministry with the result that legality cannot be documented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the processing of personal data by any public body, with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of a surveillance system for the purposes of said law.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Article 10 of Law 2472/1997 "The controller must receive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the appropriate organizational and technical measures for data security and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their protection from ... and any other form of unfair processing. These
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measures must ensure safety levels commensurate with the risks
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

what the processing entails and the nature of the data it is subject to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of processing…”
 

 

 in this case, the use of a camera by a police officer with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

features described in the case history will not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

could be included in the case of exclusively personal or domestic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of use, as well, even if the decision to use it is exclusive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the police officer in question, this is done in its context
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

professional and not of his personal activity and indeed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

space that is public or freely accessible to the public. Such use does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

can be considered legal, since, according to the above, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regulation that he would assign to EL.A. the authority of use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 

 
3.

 
4.

 
5.

 

portable cameras.
 

 

 

6. EL.A. as a controller must have appropriate measures for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensuring the legality of any personal data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character (article 10. law 2472/97). Necessary organizational measure for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

safeguarding this is the existence of complaint investigation procedures which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concern the processing of personal data. Even if initially
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the controller has no knowledge of an action by an employee,
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who acts within the scope of his duties, as soon as he receives knowledge, such as
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after a relevant complaint, must examine the case in more detail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and possibly take appropriate measures. The results of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these procedures must be documented and not admissible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

challenge, even if they are done orally in the first stage.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. With the documents sent by EL.A., in response to its documents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority it is claimed that a thorough investigation was carried out and indeed with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

immediacy and from high-ranking officers of the Police, in which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

explanations were provided, and the devices in question were demonstrated, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its conclusions are indisputable. However, it is established that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COME . did not record investigative actions.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
8.

Besides, when the complaint was submitted to the Authority, the possibility did not exist
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

immediate intervention and on-site administrative control, due to the time that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had intervened. Furthermore, apart from the photographs, none exist
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other evidence of image or sound reception. Therefore, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it can be established with certainty that in the particular incident
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was carried out
 

processing
 

personnel data
 

 

character through
 

 

video recording.
  

 

9. Considering the above, and in particular that it cannot be proven
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data, but its process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COME . to investigate a complaint related to processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data was not documented in writing, while,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in addition, EL.A. delayed unreasonably to provide the requested
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the Authority information, the Authority considers that it should address to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller relevant recommendations.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority issues recommendations, based on art. 19 par. 1 c' of Law 2472/1997, at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hellenic Police as controller such as:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Takes the necessary actions so that the investigation process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints related to the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character to be duly documented.
 

 

 

 

 

 

2. cooperates effectively with the Authority.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The President of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

Konstantinos Menudakos
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

6
 

