16.06.2021
Penalty for GDPR violation

The National Supervisory Authority completed, in June 2021, an investigation at the operator La Santrade S.R.L. and found a violation of the provisions of art. 83 para. (5) lit. e) from the General Regulation on Data Protection and violation of the provisions of art. 83 para. (5) lit. b) from the General Regulation on Data Protection.
As such, the operator La Santrade S.R.L. was penalized for contravention:

 with a fine of 9,839.4 lei (the equivalent of 2,000 EURO) for violating art. 83 para. (5) lit. e) from the General Data Protection Regulation, regarding the operator's obligation to provide the necessary information to the National Supervisory Authority;
 with a warning, for violating the provisions of art. 83 para. (5) lit. b) from the General Regulation on Data Protection, regarding non-compliance with the rights of the data subject.

As part of the investigation started as a result of a complaint, La Santrade S.R.L. did not respond to the request for information addressed by the National Supervisory Authority in the exercise of its powers, thus violating the provisions of art. 83 para. (5) lit. e) from the General Data Protection Regulation.
Also, the National Supervisory Authority found that the respective operator did not adopt measures to ensure the effective exercise of the rights of the data subjects, a fact that led to the non-resolution of the data subject's request requesting the deletion of his personal data (right provided by art. 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation). In this context, it was found that the provisions of art. 12 para. (2) and (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Also, the company La Santrade S.R.L. two corrective measures were also applied to him:

 the corrective measure of informing the data subject of the measures adopted regarding the deletion of his data, collected without his express consent;
 the corrective measure to facilitate the exercise of the rights of the persons concerned, by making available valid contact data, including a functional e-mail address, these to be made public on the operator's website in the sections on the processing of personal data, the policy privacy, contact details.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.