

Bonn, April 30, 2021


Press release 8/2021


BfDI: Use the possibilities of the Corona warning app
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, demands that the Corona-Warn-App (CWA) can also be used to register in shops and restaurants: Since Update 2.0, the Corona-Warn -App a well-functioning and at the same time privacy-friendly cluster detection. We have to use that now. The federal states should open their regulations in such a way that a pseudonymous digital check-in is also legally possible.

The Infection Protection Act allows the federal states to collect personal data to combat pandemics. However, the BfDI makes it clear: This does not mean that the data must necessarily be collected. The Corona-Warn-App already has over 27 million users who can be warned faster and more easily than any other way. When countries adapt their regulations, we improve health protection and data protection at the same time.
Opening up the state regulations for the Corona-Warn-App would also relieve the health authorities, which currently only very rarely access the contact details of shops and restaurants, since the CWA would inform all users without going through the health authorities. Professor Kelber also calls for constant further development of the app: automatic cluster recognition is also possible. The more people participate, the greater the benefit for all of us by immediately interrupting chains of infection.
In a resolution of April 29, the conference of independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments also recommends that the federal states examine further steps to deal with the possibilities of updating the Corona-Warn-App. Other registration methods should be retained anyway. This means that both a check-in with other registration apps and the provision of contact details in paper form remain.







contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











