 

File number:
Previous case number:
 

NAIH-3684-1/2023
NAIH-7885/2022
 

Subject: decision

 

 
 

H A T A R O Z A T

 
 

The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority) a
………………………………….. (head office: ……………………...; hereinafter: Customer)
information about data management and the Customer's data management activities
its legal grounds took place in the period between May 25, 2018 and the date of initiation of this procedure
on the subject of legal compliance on October 12, 2022 ex officio data protection authority
initiated proceedings under case number NAIH-7885/2022. The Authority in the official data protection procedure
makes the following decisions:
 
I. The Authority determines that the Client did not provide transparent and accurate information during the period under review
information to those concerned about the individual data management purposes and the related ones
in relation to legal bases, and indicated an inappropriate legal basis in the justification
detailed in relation to the following data management:

- by the data subject of the website of the Data Controller (…………………….; hereinafter: Website).

data processing based on consent given by browsing,

- on the protection of natural persons with regard to the management of personal data
and on the free flow of such data, as well as outside the scope of Directive 95/46/EC
Regulation 2016/679/EU on the placement of data (hereinafter: general data protection regulation)
Data processing related to sound recording based on point (c) of paragraph (1) of Article 6,
which were carried out outside the scope expressly defined in the legislation,

- contact based on point (c) of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation

data management in cases other than consumer protection complaint handling,

- data processing based on the data subject's consent in the course of claims management activities

during the first contact with the debtor,

and thereby violated Article 6 (1), Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph and point c) of Article 13 (1).
 
II. The Authority based on Article 58 (2) point d) of the General Data Protection Regulation
ex officio instructs the Customer to provide appropriate information to those concerned
in relation to its data management, for this a
explained in his justification
modify the content of your data management information in accordance with requirements.
 
III. The Authority is the Client due to the data protection violation established in point I above
ex officio
 

this decision

 

HUF 1,000,000, i.e. one million forints

data protection fine

obliged to pay.

 
The II. the fulfillment of the obligation prescribed by the Customer towards this decision
must be in writing within 30 days of the expiration of the legal remedy deadline - the supporting document
together with the presentation of evidence (content and availability of the amended information) -
certify to the Authority the content and availability of the modified data management information
by sending his ways.

 

2

 
The III. fine according to point 30 days after this decision becomes final
within the Authority centralized revenue collection target settlement
HUF account
(10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized direct debit account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000
0104 0425 0000 0000) must be paid. When transferring the amount, "NAIH-3634/2023
FINE.” number must be referred to.
 
If the Customer does not fulfill his obligation to pay the fine within the deadline, he is in default
must pay an allowance. The amount of the late fee is the legal interest, which is due to the delay
is the same as the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the relevant calendar semester.
 
Non-payment of the fine and late fee, or the above II. obligation according to point
in case of non-compliance, the Authority orders the implementation of the decision.
 
There is no place for administrative appeal against the decision, but only from the announcement
within 30 days from the date of issue, with a letter of claim addressed to the Capital Tribunal
can be challenged in a lawsuit. The claim must be submitted to the Authority electronically1, which
forwards it to the court together with the case documents. The request for the holding of the trial is submitted by the
must be indicated in the application. For those who do not receive full personal tax exemption
the fee for the administrative lawsuit is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record the fee. The capital city
Legal representation is mandatory in court proceedings.
 
 

I N D O C O L A S

 
 

The course of the procedure and the clarification of the facts

I.
 
I.1. The History Case
 
1.1. The Authority within the framework of background investigation case No. NAIH-6289/2022 (hereinafter:
Background Case) on July 6, 2022, launched an ex officio investigation to establish that the
Does the customer's general data management practice comply with the general data protection regulation?
of its provisions, as the Authority became aware ex officio, is available on the Website
about the content of the data management information ("data protection statement"), and doubts based on it
have arisen regarding legal compliance.
 
1.2. Based on the examination of the state of the Website on June 30, 2022, the Authority noticed that
according to its data management information (………………………………………….), the Customer a
in addition to company information services, it also provides, among other things, claims management services.
It is related to both claims management and registration for the company information service
in the case of data management, the information is not clear about the legal bases for each specific purpose and
with regard to data types and data processing times for each legal basis, and that
in the case of data processing based on the consent of the data subject, it is not clear whether it is appropriate
legal basis, and in relation to personal data managed on the basis of legal obligations
nor does it provide sufficiently specific information. Definitions of "data subject" and "data subject".
the necessity of its separate election was also not clear. According to the data management information
furthermore, in the case of data processing based on the consent of the data subject, the Customer reserves the right,
that in case of withdrawal of the consent by the person concerned, it will be further handled by the personal
data, the purpose and legal basis of which would be provided afterwards. He didn't mark it

1 The NAIH_K01 form is used to initiate the administrative lawsuit: NAIH_K01 form (16.09.2019) The form is
can be filled out using a general form filling program (ÁNYK program).

 

3

the information clearly states which type is specifically required by law
data is processed based on exactly which legal places and for how long, except for credit institutions and
CCXXXVII of 2013 on financial enterprises. Act (hereinafter: Hpt.) § 288
audio recording (however, the paragraph referred to here was wrong, the statutory five years
instead, a one-year retention period is indicated, and it is based on consumer protection legislation
there was no mention of a similar obligation to make a sound recording). Not even that, among other things
the information determines that the processing of the data subject's citizenship a
exactly why it is necessary during claims management. The information concerns people under the age of 16
handling the data of the person charged (which, according to the information, only includes parental supervision
it is possible in the case of the practitioner's consent), however, it is not revealed which Website
the data of a person under the age of 16 may arise in connection with its service
his treatment. The "data collection from other sources" section does not reveal which one is different
it's about sources and how to do this for identification if you don't know beforehand
identify whose additional data should be obtained. The statute of limitations also raises questions
adequacy of unlimited debtor data management beyond time. Data management is difficult to interpret
the statement of information that "failure to provide personal data voluntarily
in which case the service cannot be performed" refers to the legal basis for data management.
 
1.3. In order to clarify the above questions, the Authority is contacted during the Background Case
In the customer's reply letter received on August 8, 2022, sent under number NAIH-6289-3/2022
made the following statements relevant to the decision:
 

(i) The services provided by the Customer and the data management purposes therein
is detailed in Chapters 4 and 5 of the data management information. This is also in tabular form
was displayed as follows (this table did not include the previous June 30, 2022-
in information saved in state i):

 
Claims management
 

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Affected role (debtor,
guarantor, etc.), name, date of birth
name, date of birth, date of birth
place, mother's name,
nationality

To the person of the debtor
identification, with the debtor and
with other stakeholders
contact and
contact

(GDPR Article 6 (1)
paragraph point f) -
legitimate interest on a legal basis

Email address, phone number

Creditor's name, address, a
basis of claim
related to legal relationship
data, claim amount,
has expired

contact,
Contact

Article 6 (1) a)
point.

The exact amount of the claim
exploration

(GDPR Article 6 (1)
paragraph point f) -
legitimate interest on a legal basis

4

The affected payment
willingness, promise to pay,
agreed payments,
payments made, that is
concerned - existing data
Based on
established
payment
skill and ability
relevant data

–

Willingness to pay and payment
ability exploration, the Principal
information about the outstanding amount
about treatment, the done
on measures with the debtor
preparation of agreement a
in order to settle a debt,
if necessary, the claim
legal procedure for recovery
preparation.

Name, email address, phone number

are affected

The
his treatment

complaints

Name, email address, phone number

Those involved continued
communication
verifiability and
its traceability
provision

Contact,
contact with the debtor
preparation of agreement a
in order to settle a debt,
complaint handling

  

Name, voice of the affected person
  
Registration on the ……………………….. page
 

  

(GDPR Article 6 (1)
paragraph point f) -
legitimate interest on a legal basis

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a
on consumer protection
solo CLV of 1997.
Act 17/A. Section (7)
paragraph.

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a
on consumer protection
solo CLV of 1997.
Act 17/A. Section (7)
paragraph.

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a
on consumer protection
solo CLV of 1997.
Act 17/A. Section (7)
paragraph.

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Surname first name

Identification

Article 6 (1) a)
and point b).

E-mail address

contact,
service provision

Article 6 (1) a)
and point b).

Contact number

Keeping in touch

Password

To the user account
is safe
for entry.

Article 6 (1) a)
point.

Article 6 (1) a)
and point b).

5

Name and address

Direct accounting
obligations
fulfillment

Name, voice of the affected person
   

  

Complaint handling

Company information service
  

 
  

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a
about accounting
Act C of 2000
Paragraph (2) of § 169

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a
on consumer protection
solo CLV of 1997.
Act 17/A. Section (7)
paragraph.

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Name, address,
His mother's name
    
Customer data
 

Company information
provision of services
for the company's customers

(GDPR Article 6 (1)
paragraph point f) -
legitimate interest on a legal basis

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Article 6 (1) b)
and point c), a
resulting from a contract
demands
in case of validation of
Civil
About the law book
Act V of 2013
6:21 a.m. §-the

Services
fulfillment of contracts,
accounting
obligations
fulfillment

Services,
contact

Article 6 (1) a)
and point b).

Keeping in touch

Article 6 (1) a)
point.

Customer name, address, contact person
name

Customer email address

Customer phone number
  

  

 

Sale of company information data for direct marketing purposes
 

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Registered name, Company
email address (if private
email address provided by
in the company gazette).

Company information
provision of services
for the company's customers
for direct marketing purposes

(GDPR Article 6 (1)
paragraph point f) -
legitimate interest on a legal basis

6

(ii) The "affected person" and the "affected person" were defined separately because of the previous (I.1.2. above)
detailed in point, without a specific date, based on the introduction, after May 25, 2018
applicable) in the data management information sheet, because the "data subject" is claims management
during the concretization of the person concerned for the given case. According to the customer's opinion, in several cases
it is also called customer or customer, this is not misleading, but it is still in question
point was corrected.

(iii) Handling of the personal data of minors related to claim management
possible during data management (not during company information), however, the Customer
according to his statement, this has not happened in practice so far (he did not indicate that the debtor
or specifically how a creditor can be a minor).

(iv) Data management information 4.2. the voluntary provision of the data referred to in point
they are necessary for possible registration, service performance, and invoicing.
Detailed information on this can be found in the data management information sheet 5.2 available on the website. point
contains in tabular form (this table did not include the previous June 30, 2022
in information saved in the state):

5.2.1 Personal data provided during registration (username, personal e-mail
address, password, phone number, address) starts with registration and its
until it is deleted upon request. […]
5.2.4. Purpose and legal basis of data management
Services
Fulfillment of direct accounting obligations
Legal basis: contract performance, data subject's consent, legal for the data controller
fulfillment of obligation.
  

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Surname, first name Service provision

Article 6 (1) a)
and point b).

E-mail address

contact,
service provision

Article 6 (1) a)
and point b).

Contact number

Keeping in touch

Password

Name and address

To the user account
is safe
for entry.

Direct accounting
obligations
fulfillment

Name, voice of the affected person

Complaint handling

 

Article 6 (1) a)
point.

Article 6 (1) a)
and point b).

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a
about accounting
Act C of 2000
Paragraph (2) of § 169

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a
on consumer protection
solo CLV of 1997.
Act 17/A. Section (7)
paragraph.

7

(v) The legitimate interest has the following substantive duration with regard to personal data processed with a legal basis
considerations of interest were attached to the Customer's response:

-

-
-

Data management based on legitimate interests, company information service and credit rating
for purpose;
Data management based on legitimate interest for direct marketing purposes;
Data management based on legitimate interest for the purpose of claims management (email address,
phone number or citizenship data will be deleted in case of protest).
 

(vi) Data acquisition from other sources means the public online telephone directory.
If the data subject does not agree to the processing of the data at the beginning of the phone call,
it is not recorded and managed. According to the Customer's point of view, the legal basis is
the consent of the affected person, which he gives by making it available in the online directory
the data. You will be informed about the collection of data from other sources at the beginning of the phone call
concerned. The purpose of managing the phone number is to validate the claim.

(vii) 5.1.4 of the data management information as of June 30, 2022. data listed in point
during claims management for the purpose of identification, contact and claim collection
are necessary. For the sake of better transparency, the information sheet was expanded with a table in this round.
 
(viii) The Customer needs the nationality data of the persons concerned in order to a
during contact, help with communication and work organization, the linguistic
deal with problems in advance, this is also in the interest of the person concerned. The data may come from your client
To a customer, which will be deleted if the data subject objects. This data is the payment order
a request for its issuance can be submitted on a form if the executors of the payment order
delivery is requested. It may be relevant if the principal requests the intervention of the Client a
to submit an application for the issuance of a payment order.
 
(ix) 5.1.4 of the data management information as of June 30, 2022. listed in point
all contact data (permanent address, mailing address, place of residence, telephone, e-
email address) are handled at the same time if they are available. It may happen that some data like
the e-mail address and telephone number are not available, but it is a matter of interest
based on the data subject's consent, these are also part of the data that can be handled by the Customer
until its withdrawal. Based on this, it is handled in all cases for contact
the Customer's name, permanent address, mailing address and place of residence data are general
on the basis of Article 6 (1) point f) of the Data Protection Regulation.
 
(x) The Customer continues the CLV of 1997 on consumer protection. law (hereinafter:
Fgytv.) 17/B. § (3) and on credit institutions and financial enterprises
CCXXXVII of 2013 telephone within the scope of § 288, paragraph (2) of the Act
customer service activities and fulfills its 5-year retention obligation. About this
provides verbal information at the beginning of the call. The script of the call is based on the Customer's statement
below:

brief information about the recording of the call and the corresponding identification number;

-
- a definite question about whether you consent to the recording of the conversation;
-

brief information that the purpose of the recording is the content of the administration is stated
accurate recording of statements;

- for accessing detailed data management information about the purpose and time of recording

information (website);

- if requested by the client, this can be read out to him;
-
- if the debtor consents to the recording of his telephone number, exactly what it is

brief information on how long the audio will be stored (5 years);

you wish to provide a telephone number for the purpose of contact;

8

-

-

-

information before recording the phone number that you can request it at any time
deletion, on any of the contact details;
information that if you do not request the deletion of the phone number, then
it is handled until the end of our collection activities at the latest (case closure);
brief information about the management and processing of the given telephone number
information was also placed on the website;

- knowing all this, it is a definite question whether you agree to record the

phone number in the system for contact purposes.

 
(xi) 5.1.4 of the data management information as of June 30, 2022. information written in
according to which "deletion of the data is governed by the instruction given by the client" the data controller is entitled
in the case of claim management purposes based on your interest
governing, since 5.1. point a
it's about claims management. This applies to cases where the Customer
participates in the data management process as a data processor, to the client
reference refers to this.
 
(xii) Beyond the statute of limitations (which can be 5 years for claims) the accounting and legal
due to obligations, it is necessary for the Customer to store the data further, where this time is 8
year, or 5 years in case of sound recording. At the same time, the possible statute of limitations of the claim does not apply
a claim invalid, illegal and void. The possible statute of limitations is only a
there may be an obstacle to the enforcement of a claim through the courts
in the event of a successful referral. In the absence of this, with regard to data management, in principle a
a legitimate interest may exist.
 
(xiii) 5.1.4 of the data management information as of June 30, 2022. the last of his point
the sentence that "If it is for the processing of the data
despite the withdrawal of the consent of the data subject, the data controller is entitled, and the data management
the principle of purposefulness
also applies, the data controller is the data subject
you can manage it even if you withdraw your consent." according to the Customer's statement
means that the consent is no longer processed for the purpose affected by the consent
data affected by revocation, only if the data is some other, no
is also processed for consent-based purposes. This could be, for example, according to the Customer,
when someone revokes the management of their e-mail address during claims management, but this
the address is given as contact information at the company court. The Customer's practice that
shows who consents to data management for the purpose of claims management (such data
email and phone number), the cooperative and does not withdraw later. If it is affected
still withdraws its consent, the Customer shall inform it with the form letter below
concerned that it no longer processes this data for claim management purposes, but it is a legitimate interest
continues to process it with a legal basis for other purposes.
 
(xiv) 5.2 of the data management information as of June 30, 2022. of his point on that
subject definition that "In relation to the services available on the website"
applies to data processing carried out, the Customer interprets it as only a
company information
applies to
the
there is only information about claims management, it cannot be accessed through the Website.
 
(xv) 5.2.1 of the data management information as of June 30, 2022. the sentences of point
that "Personal data provided during registration (name, username, own e-mail
address, password, telephone number, residential address) starts with registration and upon request
until it is deleted. In the case of non-mandatory data, the data management is the provision of the data
from the date until the data in question is deleted upon request." the Customer understands that
the deletion of non-mandatory data does not need to be requested separately, they are a request to delete the registration

services

database

to your data

under construction

9

data management as of June 30

are deleted in practice. The Client is the Authority for this wording
clarified in the text of the information after his inquiry.
 
(xvi) The 2022
information 5.2.4. in point a
provision of services and the fulfillment of legal obligations are legal grounds (not from each other
separate) according to the Customer's statement, the contractual legal basis is a
For the purpose of providing services that can be linked to payment on the website, in accordance with the law
obligation with a legal basis is necessary for the fulfillment of direct accounting obligations
handles data. According to the Customer, the contract is necessary for both legal bases
to manage the data for 8 years from the date of termination, because the contract is fulfilled
it entails cash flow, thus also an accounting obligation. As of June 30, 2022
data management information in the same point under "in case of consent until withdrawal"
it also indicates the processing time, although at this point it is specifically based on the contractual and legal obligation
is about data management based on
 
(xvii) According to the Customer's point of view, he asks to record the call at the beginning of the phone call
consent, because his previous practice was to treat it based on consent
acquired data, but since this is already a legal obligation, if the recording
after communicating the fact, the data subject can decide that he does not want to receive a call
be recorded, the Customer cannot fulfill his legal obligations in this regard, therefore a
call is dropped.
 
(xviii) Due to an IT error at the beginning of the data management information as of June 30, 2022
the Customer's former registered office address is listed instead of the current one. Postal from previous address
redirection is in effect, so it will also receive stakeholder requests arriving at the previous address
Customer.

 
1.4. In view of the statements made by the Customer in the History Case, Infotv. Section 55 (1)
On the basis of paragraph a) sub-point b) the necessity arose that the Authority a
instead of an investigation, proceed with the procedure in the form of a data protection official procedure.
 
 
I.2. This data protection official procedure
 
2.1. In this data protection official procedure, the Customer, upon request of the Authority, 2022.
received on October 26 on ePaper, sent under NAIH-7885-2/2022 (on October 27, 2022
received on ePaper, with supplement sent under number NAIH-7885-3/2022)
in his reply letter, he made the following statements relevant to the decision:
 

(i) The Customer reserves the statements made during the History Case by stating that each
summary table of data management purposes and legal bases for questions raised by the Authority
amended with the following content for better transparency (which on this
The second significant amendment of the information on the subject began to be examined by the Authority in 2022.
compared to data management information as of June 30):
 

Data management related to the use of the service
 

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Surname first name

Services

Article 6 (1) point b).

E-mail address

contact,
service provision

Article 6 (1) point b).

10

Contact number

Keeping in touch

Article 6 (1) point b).

Password

Name and address

To the user account
is safe
for entry.

Article 6 (1) point b).

Direct accounting
fulfillment of obligations

Article 6, paragraph 1, point c), and
C of 2000 on accounting.
law
Paragraph (2) of § 169

The purchase/registration
Time

Technical operation
implementation.

 

 

IP at the time of purchase/registration
title

Technical operation
implementation.

 
Registration (creating a user account)
 

the

the

and

GDPR Article 6 (1) b)
electronic
point
services,
commercial
as well as
informative
with society
connected
about some issues of services
CVIII of 2001 law (a
hereinafter: Elker tv.) 13/A. §
Paragraph (3).

Personal
data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Last name,
first name

Identification, secure access to the user account
for entry.

Article 6 (1) a) and
point b).

E-mail address

Keeping in touch, sending system messages,
login to user account

Article 6 (1) a) and
point b).

Notification
telephone number

Identification, contact

Article 6 (1) a) and
point b).

Password

Secure access to the user account
serves.

Article 6 (1) a) and
point b).

Billing
name and address

Issuance of the regular invoice, as well as a
creating a contract, defining its content,
modification, monitoring of its performance, that is
invoicing fees derived from it, as well as with it
enforcement of related claims.

Article 6 (1) c)
and about accounting
C. of 2000
Act § 169 (2)
paragraph

   
Complaint handling

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Surname and first name

Identification, contact.

E-mail address

Phone number

Keeping in touch.

Keeping in touch.

Article 6 (1) c)
point and a

11

Identification, the ordered
related to products
arising quality objections,
questions and problems
his treatment.

on consumer protection
CLV of 1997. Act 17/A.
(7) of §

Billing name and address

   
Customer data
 

Personal data

Purpose of data management

Legal basis

Customer name, address, contact person
name

Service provision contracts
performance, accounting obligations
fulfillment

Customer email address

Service provision, contact

Customer phone number

Keeping in touch

  

Article 6, paragraph 1
points b) and c), a
resulting from a contract
demands
validation
in the case of Civil
About the law book
solo V. of 2013
Law 6:21. §-the

Article 6, paragraph 1
points a) and b).

Article 6, paragraph 1
points a) and b).

(ii) According to the Customer's statement, its main profile is the company information service as such,
uses public databases in the public interest to provide services such as
company search, transfer price or marketing database. The primary source of the data is Hungarian
Newspaper publisher, from which, based on contract, the Client receives the company newsletter with daily updates
data content. Among the data, there are those that correspond to personal data
definition, but without exception, the legislator made them public in the public interest. On this
data can be used for the decision-makers of some companies in other companies or
to map your registered relationships in the past, or companies based on fields of activity
sort and export relevant information for the purpose of business acquisition, such as company name,
contact information, name authorized to sign the company. The Customer does not carry out such activities in this area
data collection, which would not affect the scope of public data in the public interest, so it does not order
added to these data from other sources, for example with the consent of the data subject
managed data.
 
(iii) The Customer recorded approximately 300 debtor telephone numbers from a public database
consent given during the call in connection with the claim management activity
Based on.
 
(iv) According to the Customer's point of view during the registration - in the case of stakeholders to whom
purchase not yet binding - the purpose of data management is to create a user account, log in,
identification, and the legal basis for this changes to general data protection after purchase
legal basis according to Article 6 (1) point b) of the Decree. So far, 1 pc has been affected on the website
there were people who bought company certificates without registration.
 

12

(v) According to the Customer's statement, he does not send to private individuals in the course of his business practice,
and to your previous online customers to the contact information provided by them, a newsletter or any
other inquiries. In these cases, it is only available in public databases
use contact details (email addresses) with the address "Dear Madam/Sir".
It only accepts inquiries from companies. The Customer does not continue as such
nor the practice of asking the data subject for their consent during the provision of a service,
to be able to contact you with other offers in the future for what is considered personal data
contact details.
 
(vi) According to the Customer's point of view, it does not manage company information for the purpose of obtaining direct business
personal data included in the database, those of its customers (those who buy it from the Customer
this information) can be used even for this purpose. The name of the company for this service,
contact information, name of decision-maker covers data and performed by others on the market
service.
 
(vii) The Customer in the year 2021 …..hundred million…. It achieved sales revenue of HUF.

 
2.2. In the Customer's ePaper response to the Authority's invitation on November 11, 2022
made the following statements relevant to the decision:
 

number

…….hundred thousand.

in magnitude

(i) For the company registration included in the company database and taken into account in the marketing query
are eligible
THE
The service available at the link …………………………………………………….. will be available from June 2022.
During the service, the Client has the original goal - which is to protect creditors and is safe
is aimed at making deals - he keeps in mind.
 
(ii) According to the Customer's point of view, the names of those entitled to register are public data in the public interest,
which is also your company, but at the same time this cannot mean that the person concerned is complete
lose your right to self-determination over the data as a whole. The data management purpose is a
it is related to the business-like economic activity of the person authorized to sign the company name, which is similar
conducted by NAIH 2018/5233/4/V. case number (https://naih.hu/files/NAIH-
2018-5233-4-V.pdf), which supports the fact that business acquisition or business
sold for contact purposes (as these are for business-like economic activity
are connected) in the public interest, public data is not covered by general data protection
decree. The same is supported by preamble 14 of the general data protection regulation.
paragraph: "The scope of this regulation does not cover personal data processing that is legal
persons, and which applies in particular to businesses that are legal
created as a person, including the name and form of the legal entity and the legal
personal contact information".
 
(iii) For the marketing inquiry, the company's registration number, name, headquarters, principal
its activity, the name and position of its official, the company's tax number, and 45 of the company register.
section or, in its absence, the email specified as the contact email address on the company's website
address, the last year's sales and headcount data, as well as the company's phone number
for transfer by the Customer to the customers of this service.
 
(iv) In addition to the public company register, from the company's website or public online telephone
the public telephone number of the companies is obtained from the directory, or as the contact information of the companies
specified email address. No other data source is used to serve marketing queries
are used.
 
(v) For the provision of company information services by several ministries and state authorities
a database made public in the public interest is used as a source.

13

 
 

2.3. CL of 2016 on the general administrative procedure. Act (hereinafter: Act)
Based on § 76, no such evidence or statement arose in the Case of the Past and the present
during the procedure, which would not come from the Customer, the Authority will make further declarations
informed the Client about its possibility in all calls, so the Authority is the Client
concluded the evidence without inviting him to make a repeated statement.
 
 
I.3. Data management of certain activities carried out by the Customer and advertised on the Website
 
3.1. Among the activities advertised by the Customer through the Website, the Authority includes company information,
it examined receivables management and marketing activities, as it arises in these
handling of personal data. In addition to the above, during all of the Customer's services
the handling of arising complaints is also a separate data management purpose.
 
3.2. As part of the company information service, it is possible to provide public information via the Website
obtaining data from the company register even with prior registration (creating an account a
for later use of an easier service), or without it. In this circle, name, address,
contact data and password management can be implemented, as well as the service
technical information resulting from its use is linked to the user, thus
these data also become personal data (registration, date of purchase, IP address). THE
provided personal data according to the company register of persons registered in the company register
personal data in addition to company information.
 
3.3. The claim management activity cannot be used directly on the Website
only information can be found there. In this context, the Customer with legal and natural persons
cooperates in the out-of-court collection of receivables. About that, it is
the following personal data can be processed: role of the person concerned (debtor, guarantor, etc.), debtor
email address, telephone number, name and address of creditor, with the legal relationship underlying the claim
related data, claim amount, expiration date, willingness to pay of the person concerned.
 
3.4. For the purpose of direct marketing, within the scope of the sale of company information data in a given sector
active and belonging to a group that can be selected according to other criteria, active and investigated
provides the contact details of creditworthy companies listed in the company register
in quantity the Customer. In this circle, the name of the person authorized to sign the company may appear as personal data
up, as well as the contact email address, if it belongs not only to a company, but
it is also personal data (for example, if it contains a personal name).
 
3.5. During complaint handling, the Customer's customer service can handle the name of the complainant, the complaint
depending on the source, the email address, phone number, and in the case of a telephone complaint, the complainant
his voice due to the recording of the phone call.
 
 
II.

Legal provisions applicable in the case

 

According to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the general data protection
regulation must be applied to personal data in part or in whole in an automated manner
processing, as well as the non-automated processing of data that
are part of a registration system or which are a registration system
want to be part of.
 

14

According to recital (14) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the natural
persons in relation to the management of their personal data on the basis of this regulation
protection regardless of their nationality and place of residence. General data protection
the scope of the decree does not cover the processing of personal data for legal entities,
and which especially applies to businesses that were brought as legal entities
created, including the name and form of the legal entity, as well as the contact information of the legal entity
relevant data.
 
According to recital (15) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the serious
protection of natural persons in order to avoid the risk of avoidance
it must be technologically neutral and cannot depend on the technical solutions used.
The protection of natural persons personal data is carried out by means of automated means
in addition to processing, it also applies to manual processing if personal data is registered
stored or intended to be stored in the system. Such documents or groups of documents and those
its cover pages, which are not organized according to specific criteria, are not
fall under the scope of this regulation.
 
You are identified as "personal data" on the basis of Article 4, point 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"), including
also the online ID.
 
According to Article 4, point 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data management" is personal
any performed on data or data files in an automated or non-automated manner
operation or a set of operations, such as collection, recording, organization, segmentation, storage,
transformation or change, query, insight, use, transmission of communication,
by means of distribution or other means of making available, coordination or
connection, restriction, deletion or destruction.
 
Pursuant to Article 4, point 11 of the General Data Protection Regulation, it is "the consent of the data subject".
of the will of the person concerned, based on voluntary, specific and adequate information and clear
declaration by which the relevant statement or confirmation is unambiguously expressed
indicates by action that he gives his consent to the processing of his personal data.
 
According to Article 6 (1) point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, it may be legal to
processing of personal data, if the data subject has given his consent to a or
for its management for several specific purposes.
 
According to Article 6 (1) point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, it may be legal to a
processing of personal data, if data processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a contract,
in which the data subject is one of the parties, or was the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
necessary to take steps at your request.
 
According to Article 6 (1) point f) of the General Data Protection Regulation, it may be legal to
processing of personal data, if the data processing is authorized by the data controller or a third party
is necessary to assert its interests, unless it takes precedence over these interests
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject that are personal
data protection is necessary, especially if the person concerned is a child.
 
According to recital (47) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller –
including the data controller with whom the personal data may be disclosed - or one
the legitimate interest of a third party can create a legal basis for data processing, provided that the data subject is involved
interests, fundamental rights and freedoms do not take priority, taking into account that
reasonable expectations of the data subject based on his relationship with the data controller. About such a legitimate interest

15

it can be the case, for example, when there is a relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the
between data controllers, for example in cases where the data subject is a customer of the data controller
is in its application. In any case, to establish the existence of a legitimate interest
it must be carefully examined, among other things, that the data subject is personal data
at the time of its collection and in connection with it, can you reasonably expect that
data may be processed for the given purpose. The interests and fundamental rights of the data subject take precedence
may enjoy against the interest of the data controller if the personal data are in such circumstances
between which the data subjects do not expect further data processing. Since
it is the task of the legislator to define in legislation what the public authorities are like
can process personal data on a legal basis, supporting the legitimate interest of the data controller
no legal basis can be applied, carried out by public authorities in the course of performing their duties
for data management. Personal data is absolutely necessary to prevent fraud
its handling is also considered the legitimate interest of the data controller concerned. Personal data direct
its processing for the purpose of acquiring business can also be considered based on legitimate interest.
 
Based on Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller is compliant
takes measures in order to allow the data subject to process personal data
all relevant information mentioned in Articles 13 and 14 and Articles 15-22 and Article 34
according to each information is concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible
provide it in a clear and comprehensible form, especially to children
for any information received.
 
Based on Article 13 (1) and (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the personal
data were obtained from the data subject, the data controller makes the data available to the data subject
following information:

a) the identity of the data controller and, if any, the representative of the data controller and
your contact details;

b) contact details of the data protection officer, if any;

c) the purpose of the planned processing of personal data and the legal basis of data processing;

d) based on point f) of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case of data management, the legitimate interests of the data controller or a third party;

e) where applicable, recipients of personal data, or categories of recipients, if any;

f) where appropriate, the fact that the data controller is in a third country or international
organization wishes to forward the personal data to, and the Commission
the existence or absence of a compliance decision, or general data protection
regulation in Article 46, Article 47 or Article 49 (1) second
in the case of data transfer referred to in subsection, the appropriate and suitable guarantees
designation, as well as the methods for obtaining a copy of them or those
reference to your contact information;

g) on the duration of storage of personal data, or if this is not possible, on this
aspects of determining the duration;

h) on the data subject's right to request from the data controller the personal data relating to him
access to data, their correction, deletion or restriction of processing, and
it can object
against the processing of such personal data, as well as the data subject
about your right to data portability;

i) point a) of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation or Article 9 (2)
in the case of data processing based on point a) of paragraph 1, the consent at any time

16

the right to withdraw, which does not affect consent before the withdrawal
the legality of data processing carried out on the basis of;

j) on the right to submit a complaint to the supervisory authority;

k) about the provision of personal data
statutory or contractual
whether it is based on an obligation or a prerequisite for the conclusion of a contract, as well as whether the person concerned
are you obliged to provide personal data,
possible
failure to provide data may have consequences;

and what it's like

l) automated referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the fact of decision-making, including profiling, and at least in these cases
understandable information on the applied logic and that such data management
what significance it has and what expected consequences it has for the person concerned.

and

variable

reported

conditions

severity

probable

freedoms

 
Based on Article 13(4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, Article 13(1)-(3)
it does not have to be applied if and to what extent the data subject already has the information.
 
Based on Article 24 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller is
the nature, scope, circumstances and purposes of data management, as well as the rights of natural persons
and
risk
taking appropriate technical and organizational measures into account
for the purpose of ensuring and proving that the processing of personal data in accordance with this regulation
is done in accordance. These measures are reviewed by the data controller and are necessary
updates it if necessary.
 
Based on Article 26 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is (1)
agreement referred to in paragraph
independently of each data controller
in relation to and against each data manager according to this regulation
rights.
 
For data management under the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation, the information
CXII of 2011 on the right to self-determination and freedom of information. law (a
hereinafter: Infotv.) according to Section 2 (2) of the general data protection decree there
shall be applied with the additions contained in the specified provisions.
 
Infotv. On the basis of Section 55 (1) point a) point b) if the Authority during the investigation
states that it is defined in the general data protection regulation and this law
in connection with the exercise of rights, a violation has occurred or there is an immediate threat of such violation
exists, then the investigation is closed, and - if necessary - the data protection authority according to § 60
initiates proceedings.
 
Infotv. Validation of the right to the protection of personal data based on § 60, paragraph (1).
in order to do so, the Authority initiates an official data protection procedure at the request of the data subject and
may initiate official data protection proceedings ex officio.
 
Infotv. According to § 61, paragraph (1), point a), it was made in the official data protection procedure
in its decision, the Authority issued Infotv. Data management defined in paragraph (2) of § 2
operations in connection with general data protection
defined in the decree
may apply legal consequences.
 
Infotv. Pursuant to § 71, paragraph (2), the Authority lawfully obtained during its procedures
can use documents, data or other means of proof in other proceedings.
 

17

Infotv. 75/A. Based on § 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation, Article 83 (2)–(6)
exercises its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
especially with the fact that you are in the law regarding the handling of personal data
The regulations defined in the mandatory legal act of the European Union are being implemented for the first time
in case of violation, to remedy the violation - with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in accordance with - takes action primarily with the warning of the data manager or data processor.
 
It is ordered by the Authority based on Article 58 (2) point d) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the data manager or the data processor to perform its data management operations - where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period of time - harmonized by this regulation
with its provisions.
 
On the basis of Article 58 (2) point i) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority has the 83.
imposes an administrative fine in accordance with Article, depending on the circumstances of the given case
in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph.
 
Based on Article 83 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, all supervisory
authority ensures that due to the violation mentioned in paragraphs (4), (5), (6) of this regulation
the administrative fines imposed on the basis of this article are effective in each case,
be proportionate and dissuasive.
 
According to Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, administrative fines
depending on the circumstances of the given case, Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
must be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in points a)-h) and j) of paragraph
When deciding whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or a
sufficiently in each case when determining the amount of the administrative fine
the following should be taken into account:

a) the nature, severity and duration of the infringement, taking into account the one in question
the nature, scope or purpose of data processing, as well as the number of data subjects affected by the breach
affected, as well as the extent of the damage they suffered;

b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;

c) damage suffered by data subjects on the part of the data controller or data processor
any measures taken to mitigate;

d) the extent of the responsibility of the data controller or data processor, taking into account the
technical and
organizational measures;

e) relevant violations previously committed by the data controller or data processor;

f) the remedy of the violation with the supervisory authority and the possible negative nature of the violation
extent of cooperation to mitigate its effects;

g) categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the violation, in particular
whether the data controller or the data processor has reported the breach, and if so,
in what detail;

i) if against the relevant data manager or data processor previously - in the same a
subject matter - ordered referred to in Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
one of the measures, compliance with the measures in question;

18

j) whether the data manager or the data processor has observed general data protection
for approved codes of conduct under Article 40 of the Decree or the general
for approved certification mechanisms under Article 42 of the Data Protection Regulation; as well as

k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, financial gain as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
or avoided loss.

 
In the absence of a different provision of the general data protection regulation, the data protection authority
for procedure in the Acr. provisions shall be applied with the deviations specified in Infotv.
 
The Hpt. In the case of telephone complaints based on § 288, paragraph (2), the financial
telephone communication between the institution, independent intermediary and the client in the financial
the institution records it with an audio recording and keeps the audio recording for five years. About this, the customer a
must be informed at the start of telephone administration. At the customer's request, a
listening to the audio recording, as well as twenty-five free of charge - according to your request
the certified record of the audio recording must be made available within days
or a copy of the audio recording.
 
The Hpt. Pursuant to § 288, paragraph (4), the financial institution and the independent mediator are the complaints
cannot charge the consumer a separate fee for its investigation.
 
The Fgytv. 17/A. On the basis of paragraph (7) of § §, the company shall record the record of the complaint and the
must keep a copy of the answer for three years, and it to the inspection authorities
present at their request.
 
The Fgytv. 17/B. Based on paragraph (3) of § §, customer service operated by telephone access, or
in the case of telephone access provided for pre-booking the administration date
must be ensured from the date of successful recovery of the call initiated by the consumer
receiving a call within the calculated waiting time of five minutes and starting the substantive administration,
unless it is not possible due to unavoidable reasons beyond its scope of activity, provided that
that the business acted as is generally expected in the given situation. The business
identification of the consumer is required to choose live voice administration related to the complaint
without advertising - without the transmission of advertising - the customer service operated by telephone access
to the first place in the menu order. On all incoming calls to customer service
made a verbal complaint, as well as the customer service and
telephone
communication must be audio recorded. If the audio recording contains the 17/A. § (5)
content elements according to paragraph - this does not include the place of submission of the complaint, a
the list of evidence presented by the consumer, the signature of the person taking the minutes,
as well as the place and time of recording the minutes - the recording of the minutes is done by the consumer
can be waived with your consent. The audio recording must be provided with a unique identification number and must be kept for five years
must be preserved.
 
Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code (hereinafter: Civil Code) 6:21. on the basis of §
the statutory deadline for exercising rights and asserting a claim has passed
it results in loss of rights if this is specifically ordered by law. If the deadline is not
void, the statute of limitations shall apply.
 
 
III.
 
III.1. The importance of appropriate data management information

between consumer

Decision

 

19

1.1. According to Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Customer - as a
data controller responsible for data management under investigation - obligation to take appropriate measures
in order to ensure that, for the data subjects, the 13.
and all the information mentioned in Articles 14 and 15-22. and each according to Article 34
information in a concise, transparent, understandable and easily accessible form, clearly and
provide it in a comprehensible way.
 
1.2. The system of appropriate information in the general data protection regulation serves to
so that the data subject can be aware of which personal data, which data controller and
for which purpose, with which legal basis, for how long will it be processed. It is essential for it to be so
be in a position to be able to meaningfully exercise your stakeholder rights.
 
1.3. Article 6 (1) point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation (the person concerned
consent) in the case of data management based on Article 4 11 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
point, not only the initiation of data management, but also the obtaining of consent
before the data controller is obliged to provide information based on informed consent
can be given, which is not possible under the general data protection regulation on data management
in the absence of the basic information listed as an example in Article 13. In this case, it is general
it is also necessary to comply with additional conditions according to Article 7 of the Data Protection Regulation.
 
1.4. General data protection
based on the consent of stakeholders according to the decree
regarding data management, it is important to emphasize that it is not intended to be
the data controller applies it as a general authorization regardless of other legal conditions
to be able to handle any personal data without limits at any time and for any reason.
The data subject's consent to data processing can only be valid if it is specific
for purpose(s) - which can be specified separately for each purpose - and appropriate information is provided beforehand,
which puts the person concerned in such a position that he can make an appropriate decision to consent
and complies with all other provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation
validity requirement. Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
According to
can exercise his/her rights as a data subject in an informed manner.
 
1.5. As explained above, the obligation to provide information is not a mere "paperwork"
is an obligation in the General Data Protection Regulation. All in preamble 2
contained, all the articles of the general data protection regulation require the achievement of results
when determining the obligations of a data controller, not just a specified minimum
proof of effort on the part of the data controller.
 
1.6. Based on points b) and f) of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case of data management, the factor that significantly affects legality is also the appropriate,
transparent and non-contradictory information.
 
1.7. Incomplete or unclear information - especially, but not exclusively, the purpose and
in terms of legal basis - it may directly affect the enforceability of the rights of the affected parties
ability. In the case of some legal grounds, the rights of the affected parties that can be exercised may differ and
if more than one legal basis is indicated, it may happen that they are not mutually exclusive
are compatible, so none of the related rights actually applies. That he gave
in connection with data management, what rights the data subject has in terms of the legal basis
can be decided
designation is such

legal basis is clear, per purpose

so the

 

2 For example, the first half of Recital (39) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "The processing of personal data shall be lawful and
it should be fair. For natural persons, it must be transparent that the information concerning them is personal
how their data is collected and used, how it is viewed or in what other way it is handled, as well as
in connection with the extent to which personal data is or will be managed. [...]"

20

a minimum requirement that cannot be missing or cause difficulties under any circumstances
its understanding by the person concerned.
 
1.8. In particular, but not exclusively, the above statement applies to general data protection
in the case of a legal basis according to Article 6 (1) point c) of the Decree, in which special attention should be paid
it is necessary that the limitation of the data subject's rights is only required by law
to be realized to the extent and duration, and to receive specific information about its scope
the data subject in addition to the fact that data management is mandatory based on a specific law.
 
III.2. The examined data management information
 
2.1. The Authority in the History Case is available on the Customer Website as of June 30, 2022
examined its data management information (…………………………………..), which was dated May 2018
It shows the content of information for the period between June 25 and 30, 2022, and this period
regarding this, the Authority is also based on this in the current data protection official procedure
findings regarding legal compliance. No statement or document to the contrary
received from the Customer. Subsequent modification of the information to the information of the previous period
its legal compliance is not affected.
 
2.2. The Authority is the current data protection authority procedure after June 30, 2022
for the period up to the date of its initiation (October 12, 2022), the Customer has the
Received in Case History on August 8, 2022, received under NAIH-6289-3/2022
I.1.3 above, sent in your reply letter data management information detailed in point
was based on.
 
2.3. After the Customer initiates this data protection official procedure, the data management
changes made in the information of the examined (May 25, 2018) and this data protection
between the date of the initiation of the official procedure) of the legality of providing information
they are not relevant for your assessment. However, the Authority's previous data management
when substantiating information deficiencies, as well as a
legal consequences
for its determination, it took into account the amended I.2.1 above after the period under review. and
I.2.2. also the content of data management information detailed in points.
 
III.3. Problems identified in the Customer's data management information
 
3.1. Data management information as of June 30, 2022
 

(i) The information sheet follows the following structure: introduction and name of data controller (no
serial number), definitions (no serial number), data management principles and guidelines
legislation (serial numbers 3.1-3.8), listing the purposes of data management (4.1), data management
listing of its legal grounds (4.2.), collection and processing of data and duration of data management (5.1.
claim management, 5.2. ensuring the provision of services available on the Website, 5.3.
company information data, without a separate serial number at the end of the direct based on legitimate interest
data management for marketing purposes).
 
(ii) In general, it can be said that the breaking up of text-only information and
based on its transparency, it already makes it difficult in its structure for the affected person to be given by it
you can easily find all the essential conditions of the data management you are looking for, one by one
in terms of data management purposes, you cannot do this in one place, from several different chapters
must gather all the data subject's information for a given data management. The “right
data management for the purpose of interest-based direct marketing" does not differ in substance
formally from information about the company information service. Individual goals are not
are sufficiently specifically indicated when presenting the legal grounds and other conditions, a

21

information 4.1. instead of the goals listed in point 2, more abstract goals are combined
and in the later points, for which he concluded with several - if applicable, different legal grounds
- goal is associated, and the determination of the individual data management times was only listed one after the other
listed, from which the data subject must select the information he needs. This is the Authority
in his opinion, Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation does not comply
of the conditions for the provision of concise, transparent and understandable information.
 
(iii) Definitions include "affected": "any specified,
identified or - directly or indirectly - identifiable on the basis of personal data
natural person", and "the person concerned", whose definition is that
"the data subject is the person whose data the Customer uses in order to collect the claim
handles. […] The affected person may be another person who can be associated with the claim,
as well as the visitor of the Website.". The two are slightly different - but easily
can be confused - the definition is, according to the Authority's point of view, suitable for
that it confuses the person concerned in the interpretation of the information, so this is not the general rule
transparent and accurate information according to Article 12 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation.
 
(iv) Data management information 3.4. according to point, a person under the age of 16
only the person of legal age exercising parental supervision over the personal data concerned
can be processed with your consent. This is only in the case of certain legal grounds or so, for example a
in the case of data processing based on legal obligations, age does not matter, on the other hand, a
The target audience of the services available on the website is not minors, nor is the Authority
upon inquiry, the Customer was also unable to indicate a specific case when he was a minor
it is necessary to process your personal data in the course of claims management activities (see
the declaration according to point I.1.3.(iii) above). In addition to all this, general data protection
based on Article 12 (1) of the Decree, it is not clear what this information means and
who is the recipient.
 
(v) They are a mere list of all purposes and all legal bases of data management
connecting individually and the duration etc. clear case-by-case addition of information
without it is not sufficiently transparent and does not comply with Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
and Article 13 (1) point c), the data subject will not be in it
in a position to easily identify exactly which of your data is being processed and given for which purpose
which legal basis belongs to the purpose. This interpretation was confirmed by, among others, the French
data protection authority also in its decision against Google LLC in January 20193.
According to the Authority's point of view, the later points of the examined information sheet do not remedy this either
problem, the legal bases for the given type of data cannot be clearly identified, and
gathering information means extra work for the average person concerned,
which should have been carried out by the data controller based on the general data protection regulation
and hand it over to the person concerned in the appropriate form.

(vi) The information did not clearly indicate that it was based on a legal obligation
specifically, which types of data are processed and for how long based on which legislation. THE
Hpt. In addition to the reference to § 288 (incorrect paragraph), the period of data management is incorrect - 5
instead of 1 year - you specified a time, and only Hpt. mandatory data management according to is mentioned in
information, Fgytv. no mandatory audio recording according to The Customer's statement –
according to which the correct 5-year time is spoken during the telephone conversation
information - only adds to the controversy as the online information marked on the phone
after possibly reading it, the person concerned will have two strongly different pieces of information for the same a
to fact. This does not comply with Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation

 

3 https://edpb.europa.eu/news/national-news/2019/cnils-restricted-committee-imposes-financial-penalty-50-million-euros_hu

 

22

an obligation based on which it is necessary to provide transparent and accurate information,
as a result of which the information cannot be misleading or inaccurate.
 
(vii) The information sheet does not indicate the handling of the relevant citizenship data
and for what exact purpose it is needed. Presented by the Customer during the procedure
arguments - the choice of the language of the first communication and the payment order
in case of delivery by executor, marking on the form - where appropriate
they can base the processing of this data for the shortest time necessary to achieve the goal, which
it lasts until the first successful contact, however, due to the sensitive nature of the data, it is accurate
it is necessary to define its conditions and framework in a clear and comprehensible manner for those concerned
in personal information. This was missing from the examined information.
 
(viii) 5.1.3 of the prospectus. is not indicated in the "data collection from other sources" section
and specifically and exhaustively (just as an example) from which other sources you can obtain it
specifically, what type of data does the Customer use, for what purpose, for how long, and that's all
optional data that can be processed until the interested party objects. Given this and the fact that the service providers
in the telephone number database and therefore opt-out and not in the online inquiries based on it
the opt-in system works, contrary to the Customer's claim, the mere lack of objection does not
can be considered as an active consenting act of the data subject, which is the general data protection
one of the conditions of validity based on point 11 of Article 4 of the Decree. The specific data management
consent cannot be given without knowledge, Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
on the basis of paragraph a) ("one or more specific goals" are required, which are known by the
affected at the time of consent). The European Data Protection Board on consent
5/2020 Guidelines4 (hereinafter: 5/2020 Guidelines) in paragraph 75
significantly records that the General Data Protection Regulation makes it clear that
consent requires a statement or confirmation from the person concerned
to an unmistakably expressive act, which means that it is always an active act
or must be given by declaration. It must be clear that the data subject has consented to it
for given data management. Because of all this, the first call cannot be based on the person concerned
consent, only in the legitimate interest of the Customer in making contact, is appropriate
in addition to information and consideration of interests. Due to the above, the examined information was not satisfactory
and the appropriate and accurate required for stakeholder consent based on the above
information requirement, thus violating Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph.

 
3.2. Data management information after June 30, 2022, before October 12, 2022
 

necessity and

(i) As a result of the Authority's procedure, the Customer realized that its data management information
is not sufficiently transparent, so in the History Case it arrived on August 8, 2022, NAIH-
6289-3/2022 in his reply letter specifically to increase transparency
for this purpose, he grouped the individual in tabular form in a significantly different way than before
information about data management. Among others, this Authority is present
procedure
findings according to
substantiates its validity regardless of whether the Customer is to increase transparency
how many results did its activities have
(ii) The amended contract sent by the Client to the Authority on August 8, 2022
information in the "Customer details" section "Customer name address, contact name"
data is processed for several purposes, these purposes are indicated together ("Service provision
fulfillment of contracts, fulfillment of accounting obligations"), and it is clear to them
without separation as a legal basis the (general data protection regulation) "6. Article (1) paragraph b)
and point c), in the case of enforcement of claims arising from the contract, the Civil

having

part

4 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_202005_consent_en.pdf

 

23

Act V of 2013 on the Code of Laws 6:21. §a" legal grounds were indicated. THE
mixing and unclear separation of service provision and legal obligation
it makes it difficult to exercise related stakeholder rights, as it is partially different or different
scope of stakeholder rights can be exercised in the case of individual legal grounds. This is a blur
unnecessary and confusing, they are two completely separate goals. Acts 6:21. § also the bankrupt
describes the nature of the deadline, it does not establish any legal obligations based on which
The customer would not have a choice regarding the continuation of data management, so it is not clear
based on Article 6 (1) point c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The Customer performs mandatory data management in this context. The same problem, the corresponding clear
lack of separation exists with regard to the "Customer email address" data, where the legal basis is a
"6. Article (1) paragraphs a) and b)" was marked without indicating which
for more specific purposes, which legal basis is applicable, i.e. not for the provision of the contract
necessary email address data, which is handled by the Customer for communication on a specific topic
with consent. The more specific goals with a specific legal basis and the ones that belong to them
the lack of a proper and clear presentation of the legal basis, so the full was preserved in this round as well
in the examined period.
 
(iii) The amended contract sent by the Client to the Authority on August 8, 2022
in the information "Registration at ………………………. page" section for more data
(general data protection regulation) "6. also a legal basis according to Article (1) points a) and b)".
indicated at the same time (Surname, first name - purpose: identification, E-mail address - purpose:
Maintaining contact, providing services, Password - purpose: To the user account
serves for secure entry). In the above cases, it is not clear what exactly belongs
to the category essential for the provision of the service and for which purpose, and what for which a
consent can be revoked at any time with any legal consequences (for example, the service
without impossibility). By the Customer's statement presented in point I.2.1.(iv) above
in a substantiated manner, some services (such as the purchase of a company statement) registration and
they also work without creating an account, in this case the registration on the Website is only
convenience, optional option, cannot be based on Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph b) This is supported by the European Data Protection Board 2/2019
also paragraphs 23-25 of its guidelines5 (hereinafter: 2/2019 Guidelines). All
for data management related to a service that does not require registration,
only general data processing related to the provision of the service itself can be carried out
on the basis of Article 6 (1) point b) of the Data Protection Regulation, the optional convenience
registration must be clearly marked as such and with registration and account management
data management based on consent must be clearly separated from the service
from provision, for which registration is not required. Where it is not technically possible to
provision of services in the absence of registration, this must be clearly indicated there, and such
in this case, the data management cannot be based on the general
Article 6 (1) point a) of the Data Protection Regulation. The different purpose (service
convenience that can be used even without providing or currently ordering a service
function) and rights-based data management must be clearly separated from each other, since for example
withdrawal of consent or protest is not interpreted for the service
essential in the field of data management, so the data subject rights are easy and the data subjects
this is particularly relevant from the point of view of its comprehensible enforceability. More specifically,
objectives with a specific legal basis and the corresponding legal basis are appropriate and clear
the lack of its presentation thus persisted in this circle as well during the entire examined period.
 

 

5 2/2019 guidelines for personal data according to Article 6(1)(b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
about treatment
in the context of:
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines-art_6-1-b-adopted_after_public_consultation_hu.pdf

services

are affected

for

provided

online

the

24

(iv) The Authority established, based on the revealed facts, that the Customer does not perform
data processing for the purpose of direct business acquisition and transferred by him for use for this purpose
personal data in the company register are related to the company (manager's name and public
contact information), the data management for the purpose of obtaining business is carried out by those customers of the Customer for whom
the public data of the company register is sold by the Customer. The Authority considers it important in this regard
to clarify the error in the Customer's statement detailed in point I.2.2.(ii) that the
it would not cover personal data found in the company register that is public in the public interest
scope of the general data protection regulation. The Authority NAIH 2018/5233/4/V. case number, Customer
also cited by the resolution expressly states that "These data are provided by Infotv. of § 3
According to point 6, public data in the public interest, which, however, in this a
they retain their personal data quality in addition to "The data management
therefore, with regard to the personal data of individual entrepreneurs, the aim is business-like economic
must be related to an activity. Consequently, sole traders are personal
during the processing of your data, you must also pay attention to the fact that data processing is necessary
be limited to a certain extent.". According to this, from the public interest to the public interest during the management of public data
based on established legitimate interests, data processing takes place, the General Data Protection Regulation
of all its relevant provisions - especially, but not exclusively, the purpose limitation
in addition to the validity of its principle. Management of personal data made public in the public interest
for this reason, non-personal data cannot be considered to be handled without legal restrictions, its other, a
not compatible with economic participation
dependent, not on the economic entity, but
its use for private individuals is illegal. For the Customer's customers who on this
data are bought, the rules of the general data protection regulation must be observed, esp
with regard to the principle of purposefulness.

 
3.3. The Authority is outside the examined period of the Customer's data management information, the above
However, it did not evaluate the merits of its later amendment presented in point I.2.1.(i).
taken into account as support for this decision and obligation to amend the prospectus
when considering the need for the Customer to inform the examined period
the still inadequate information sheet has again made significant changes compared to
in text (rearrangement of the table, collection of complaint handling in a separate section, etc.). This one too
shows that it was not thought through, carefully planned and documented during the period under review
data management, the Customer tries to see through it himself afterwards and present it in an understandable form. The
5/2020, based on paragraph 121 of the Guidelines, the application of one of the six legal bases
must be established prior to data management activities and in connection with a specific purpose,
and to communicate this to the person concerned, who, in the period under review, was subject to III.3. of this decision. in point
based on detailed information, it was not done with sufficient thoroughness. Recording is important
also a clear separation of mandatory and non-mandatory cases, since the person concerned does not matter
from the point of view of whether it is done on the basis of legislation or the data controller's own discretion
making a sound recording and for what purpose it can be used later.
 
3.4. Without affecting the legality of the data management information for the examined period, III.3.3 above.
for the purposes explained in point I.2.1.(i) above, the Authority established that
in the table, the information about the audio recording was omitted during the complaint handling (and
the Hpt. and Fgytv. clarification of obligations in this regard). THE
In the case of claims management, the phone number or email address is the first contact
for the purpose of legitimate interest-based treatment, the telephone number or email is expressed by the person concerned
processing after the first inquiry based on your consent, as well as the telephone call
The three different legal bases for the data management of the mandatory recording are still not mutually exclusive
clearly separated. Registration and service provision are still not clear
separated, neither function nor legal basis (General Data Protection Regulation Article 6 (1) paragraph a)
and point b) and the section entitled "customer data" does not clarify the general

25

data processing based on points a), b) and c) of Article 6 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation
the differences between them, their specific goals and the legal basis for each goal is average
for the person concerned, they still cannot be separated from each other in an easily understandable way, the more
different data management merges in the information sheet. It was founded on the consent of the person concerned
in the case of data management, the consent must be easily revoked and for the given purpose
data management cannot continue after the withdrawal of consent, and this is the specific purpose
must appear clearly in the information provided to the data subject. Each
the required duration of data processing is not clearly indicated in the table, which is separate
it is difficult to compare with textual information. The data processing periods are much longer
they would be more transparent when marked next to the goals and legal bases than independent of the table
in the text part, not linked to the more general target designations according to the table. THE
data processing related to a contractual legal basis is usually for the termination of the contract
until a relative deadline, data management based on the legal obligation is limited to a
until a tentatively determined deadline (which is usually the creation of the accounting obligation,
not the termination of the contract), data processing based on consent is consent
until its withdrawal (e.g. request to delete an account), their clear definition and
its delimitation is missing from the examined information, although data management is mentioned in them
about his time.
 
3.5. Based on the above, it can be established that the Customer did not give during the examined period
transparent and accurate information to those concerned about the individual data management purposes and the
in relation to the legal bases belonging to them, thereby violating the general data protection
Regulation, Article 12 (1) and Article 13 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
point c) of paragraph
 
III.4. Invalidity of some legal bases used in the period under review
 
4.1. Data management information as of June 30, 2022 4.2. according to point a
consent by the person concerned by using the Website, registering, and the data
enter it voluntarily. This information is untrue by using the Website
regarding, as the consent is based on Article 4, point 11 of the General Data Protection Regulation
based on voluntary, specific and appropriate information and clear of the will of the data subject
must be declared, it cannot be done by simply browsing the Website and the services
give valid consent to data management with your order. In point III.3.1.(viii) above
in relation to paragraph 75 of the 5/2020 Guidelines, they are explained here as well
are guidelines. Furthermore, paragraph 81 of the 5/2020 Directive states that the data controller
you must also ensure that consent cannot be obtained by the same act,
such as consent to a contract or a general contract for a service
acceptance of its terms. Paragraph 86 of Directive 5/2020 states that (32)
activities such as scrolling or on the website based on recital
read-through or similar user activity under any circumstances
they do not meet the requirement of a clear and affirmative act: such
activities are difficult to distinguish from other activities of the user or
interactions, therefore it is not possible to determine whether the consent is clear.
Furthermore, in such a case, it will be difficult to provide the user with such an easy way to
to withdraw consent rather than to give it. Because of all these, it is affected
the data management based on the consent of the
above rules
are carried out in violation based solely on the browsing of the relevant Website

26

consent, they violate Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, furthermore
therefore, the related information is also incorrect.

 

4.2. In the data management information after June 30, 2022, before October 12, 2022, the Customer
already indicated by Fgytv. 17/A. mandatory data management according to §, however, both with this
related data management activities ("Claims management" and "Registration on the Website")
in the case of sound recording, the Fgytv. 17/A. § (7) as legal
place of legislation imposing an obligation, which is not accurate, as it is found in the other lines
applicable protocol is about recording and recording data in it, and that
Fgytv. 17/B. § paragraph (2).
requires audio recording and 5-year retention
as an obligation, in relation to the purpose of handling complaints. In addition to the above factual error, Hpt.
according to the mandatory audio recording is not included in the table, it is included in the text section
mention, and it is not clear and unambiguous that the Customer's receivables management activity
in which case exactly for which purposes is the audio recording made and under what conditions (e.g.
Hpt. or Fgytv. complaint handling or both, and outside of complaint handling
cases
yes, based on what). Relating to claims management
in the information table, the purposes of data management are also the "Contact,
maintaining contact, preparing an agreement with the debtor in order to settle the debt,
complaint handling" was marked in relation to the handling of the audio recording, of which alone
in the case of complaint handling, the legal basis indicated in the table (with incorrect numbering) exists, other
purposes, it cannot be distributed by the Customer. The above together is not clear, not accurate and not
they provide clear information to those concerned, who may not be aware of it
with the exact reason and conditions of data processing. In this area, therefore, not during the entire period under review
given appropriate, transparent
above the
is marked as invalid by Fgytv outside of complaint handling. obligation according to
fulfillment as the legal basis for data management. Because of all this, it applies to that recording
data management, which Fgytv. with regard to activities outside the scope of
Making a reference to Fgytv violates Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph, and therefore the related information is also incorrect.

the Customer provides information to those concerned about this

does it happen and if

 

and

"The

are affected

his treatment"

complaints

4.3. In the amended information sent by the Client to the Authority on August 8, 2022
it is not clear what the difference is between the name, email address, and phone number of the affected person "Az
are affected
communication
ensuring its verifiability and traceability' among the objectives, since both
the same data, on the same – Fgytv. arising from an obligation under - legal basis
is treated by reference, however, Fgytv. specifically only a record of the complaint
imposes a data management obligation, so the raison d'être of the second purpose above and
its legal basis is questionable, it is not clear. For all these reasons, contact information
relevant data management, which Fgytv. out of scope
activities
with reference to Fgytv violates general data protection
Article 6 (1) of the Regulation, as well as the related information
wrong.

carried on

 

with claims management

4.4. In the data management information after June 30, 2022, before October 12, 2022, the Customer
the
"Contact,
When indicating the purpose of "contact", the consent of the data subject indicated the legal basis (general
Article 6 (1) point a) of the Data Protection Regulation. Based on the revealed facts, this is only the first
after contact exists after actual consent, "contact" does not
is done with the prior consent of the person concerned. The Customer - explained in point I.1.3.(vi) above

in connection

telephone number

e-mail,

the

27

- claims that the Customer consents by appearing in the online phone book
for data processing for the purpose of contact related to claims management
upper
It is wrong for the reasons already explained in point III.3.1.(viii). The Customer is presented in point I.1.3.(ix) above
according to his statement, by considering interests and not by collecting consent in advance
the Customer based this data management, and for the reply sent on August 8, 2022
attached consideration of interests regarding claims management as the legitimate interest of the Customer
presents the handling of the email address and telephone number for the purpose of contact by the person concerned
until protest, not withdrawal of consent. Based on the practice of the Authority, the legitimate interest
with proper consideration and information, it may be an appropriate legal basis for the first call, however
for this, it is essential to provide the appropriate information about which data the Customer provides and why
and based on what it treats. Exercising the right to object is not the same as withdrawing consent,
the information is not merely a "paperwork" of the data management, it is an arbitrary information
by providing, but the goal is to eliminate the data subject's lack of information, the real, concrete
presentation of data management. The templated, not relevant to the given data management, is blurred
no information
condition. In this round, the Customer is therefore the first
invalidly based contact on the consent of the data subject, which violates the
Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, and for this reason, herewith
related information is also incorrect.

perform on this

 

 
ARC. Legal consequences
 
1. The Authority complies with Article 58 (2) point i) and Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may impose a data protection fine instead of or in addition to the other measures.
In case of violation of the General Data Protection Regulation, Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
on the basis of Article (2) point d), the data controller must be obliged to
brings data management into line with the general data protection regulation. In view of this, the above
III.3. and III.4. in point - with particular regard, but not exclusively, to III.3.3. and III.3.4. in points –
on the basis of what has been explained, the Authority, according to the relevant part of the data management information
obliged the Customer to amend it in order to remedy the lack of transparency,
especially but not exclusively with regard to purposes and legal bases. General data protection
on the basis of the regulation, an appropriate review and clear communication of this prior to data processing
it is the Client's obligation to provide specific information to the Authority - the Client's operation
in the absence of practical knowledge - it is not defined, however, it is explained in this decision
the existence of principles of transparency and comprehensibility is checked by the information provided by the Customer
in case of.
 
2. On the question of whether the imposition of a data protection fine is justified, the Authority
made a decision based on statutory discretion, taking into account Infotv. Section 61 (1)
to paragraph a), Infotv. 75/A. 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(2) and Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, which
based on this, the conviction in itself would not be a proportionate and dissuasive sanction, therefore
a fine must be imposed.
 
3. Regarding the necessity and amount of the fine, the Authority took into account that
Client's 2021 net sales …..hundred million…. It was Ft. The maximum possible fine is –
considering that the violation affected Articles 12 and 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation
– It was 20,000,000 euros.
 
4. When determining the amount of the data protection fine, the Authority as a mitigating circumstance
took into account the following:

28

(i) The violation is a relatively small number, other than the bulk sale of business register data
was realized with respect to the person concerned. (general data protection regulation Article 83 (2) paragraph a)
point)
 
(ii) The breach was negligent. (Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
point b)
 
(iii) The Authority has not previously established any relevant data protection provisions against the Client
infringement and did not order any measures. (General Data Protection Regulation Article 83 (2)
paragraph e)
 
(iv) In order to mitigate the possible negative effects of the violation, the Customer is the Authority
during his procedure, he tried several times to remedy the errors in the information, although he was not completely successful.
(General Data Protection Regulation Article 83 (2) point f)
 
(v) The violation did not affect the sensitive or special personal data of the persons concerned.
(General Data Protection Regulation Article 83 (2) point g)
 

5. When determining the amount of the data protection fine, the Authority as an aggravating circumstance
took into account that

(i) Data processing continued for a longer period of time. (general data protection regulation 83.
Article (2) point b)
 
(ii) The Customer manages an extremely large number of public data for its main activity
in addition, it also carries out activities related to receivables management, thus
a high level of knowledge of data protection requirements would be expected of him and
provision. (General Data Protection Regulation Article 83 (2) point k)
 

6. The imposition of fines serves both special and general prevention, since if a
Authority is the right one
information would not be consistently required by the authorities
in its decisions, then it could result in the data controllers not considering it as such
of fundamental importance, as it is necessary to protect the right to self-determination of information
in order to For the sake of general prevention, the Authority also issues this decision
published on its website in an anonymized form.
 
 
A. Other questions
 
1. Infotv. According to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data,
and the right to access data of public interest and public interest
control and promotion of the validity of personal data in the European Union
facilitating its free flow within. Infotv. According to Section 38 (2a), the general
tasks and powers established for the supervisory authority in the data protection decree
general data protection for legal entities under the jurisdiction of Hungary
is exercised by the Authority as defined in the decree and this law. The Authority
its jurisdiction covers the entire territory of Hungary.
 
2. The Art. Based on § 112, subsections (1) and (2), § 114, subsection (1) and § 116, subsection (1)
the decision can be appealed through an administrative lawsuit.
 

* * *

 

29

3. The rules of the administrative procedure are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. Section 13, paragraph (3).
Based on point a) subpoint aa), the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27 (1)
according to paragraph 1, legal representation is mandatory in administrative proceedings before the tribunal. The Kp.
According to paragraph (6) of § 39, the submission of a claim is an administrative act
does not have the effect of postponing its entry into force.
 
4. The Kp. Paragraph (1) of Section 29 and, in view of this, CXXX of 2016 on the Code of Civil Procedure.
applicable according to § 604 of the Act, electronic administration and trust services
CCXXII of 2015 on its general rules. according to § 9 (1) point b) of the Act, the
the client's legal representative is obliged to maintain electronic contact. The submission of the statement of claim
time and place of Kp. It is defined by § 39, paragraph (1). Request to hold the hearing
information about the possibility of the Kp. It is based on paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77.
 
5. The amount of the fee for the administrative lawsuit is determined by the XCIII of 1990 on fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. From the advance payment of the fee
the Itv. Paragraph (1) of § 59 and point h) of § 62 (1) exempt the person initiating the procedure
half.
 
6. If the Customer does not adequately certify the fulfillment of the prescribed obligations, the Authority
considers that the obligations have not been fulfilled within the deadline. The Akr. According to § 132, if
the Customer did not comply with the obligation contained in the Authority's final decision, that is
can be executed. The Authority's decision in Art. according to § 82, paragraph (1) with the communication
becomes permanent. The Akr. Pursuant to § 133, enforcement - if you are a law
government decree does not provide otherwise - it is ordered by the decision-making Authority. The Akr. 134.
pursuant to § the execution - if it is a law, government decree or municipal authority
the local government decree does not provide otherwise - the state tax authority
undertakes. Infotv. Based on § 61, paragraph (7), contained in the Authority's decision,
to carry out a specific act, for specific behavior,
you are patient
regarding the obligation to stop, the Authority will implement the decision
undertakes.
 
dated: Budapest, according to the electronic signature
 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

president

  c. professor

