1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00388/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 05/17/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against the Municipal Group of the Popular Party, NIF G28570927, (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are: that a PP councilor
made the publication on the social network Facebook of a Decree of the City Council in the
which includes your name and ID for the purpose of political criticism before the adoption of the aforementioned
administrative resolution, considering that there has been an infringement of the
regulations on personal data protection.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 07/19/2019, the brief filed was transferred to the defendant for analysis and
communication to the complainant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the Agency determined
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

The respondent, in a letter dated 07/23/2019, replied that it was not appropriate to recognize
legitimacy to the PP since the publication had been made in the account of
Facebook whose owner is an individual, not constituting a means of dissemination on the network
of the PP, which does not have the capacity to dispose of the contents contained in a
strictly private page.

THIRD: On 10/23//2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 02/28/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed for the alleged
infringement of article 6.1.a), typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FIFTH: Notification of the start agreement, the claim in writing of 03/06/2020
requested a copy of the file for the purposes of allegations; the copy and extension letter
of term was transferred to him on 06/03/2020.

However, after the established term has elapsed, the claimant as of the date of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection on 05/17/2019 stating that a PP councilor had
made the publication on the social network Facebook of a Decree of the City Council in the
that includes your name and ID for the purpose of political criticism before the adoption of that
administrative resolution, considering that there has been an infringement of the
regulations on personal data protection.

SECOND: On 05/07/2019 the PP councilor in the City Council of Vélez-Málaga D.
B.B.B., publishes on the social network Facebook a Council Decree, No. 2948,
Subject: appointment of a third party in the position of temporary staff of this entity,
and in which the name and surnames of the claimant appear together with their DNI number,
making the following comment:

“I have never seen so little shame!!!
Less than a month before the local elections C.C.C. appoint eventual position as
Group Secretary to the candidate (...) of the PSOE, A.A.A..
This fact is demonstrative that the only thing they want and are in the police is for a
"sueldecito" as it is, whenever and best cost of all of us. for that they want
continue in the government to place their acolytes until the last moment.
Public resources serve the interests of the PSOE by placing its people without
no modesty and decency…And they said they were not going to have positions of trust.
Shame on them”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed
responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
If you do not make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

The facts denounced materialize in that the personal data
of the claimant (name, surnames and DNI), have been published by a PP councilor
of the same Corporation in the social network Facebook, proving excessive since for
express the political criticism to which he alludes, it was not necessary to include his personal data.
personal character.

Said treatment constitutes an infringement of article 5, Principles

related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

(…)”

IV

The documentation in the file shows that the defendant
violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment and, as
indicates in the previous foundation, when the personal data of the
claimant on the social network Facebook by a councilor from the municipal group of the
political formation PP member of the Corporation, resulting in said publication
excessive since it was not necessary to include in that the name and DNI to make
his criticism of a political nature is possible, as a consequence of the appointment of a third party in the
position of temporary staff of the Corporation.

This duty of secrecy and confidentiality must be understood to have the
purpose to prevent leaks of data not consented by the holders
thereof.

On the other hand, the personal data will be adequate, pertinent, limited and
not excessive, that is, if the intended objective can be achieved without making a
data processing, they should not be processed

  Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not
only to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

v

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72 indicates:

“Infringements considered very serious:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

Also the LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain

categories of controllers or processors, establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and
sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In accordance with the evidence available to said conduct
constitutes by the claimed party the infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.e) of the
GDPR.

It should be noted that the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83,
contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of warning
to correct the processing of personal data that is not in accordance with your
forecasts, when those responsible or in charge listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

As indicated previously, it has been proven that the defendant
violated article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, when the personal data of the
claimant on the social network Facebook by a councilor from the municipal group of the
PP political formation, member of the Corporation resulting in said publication
excessive since it was not necessary to include in that the name and DNI to carry out
his critical work of a political nature, as a result of the appointment of a third party in the
position of temporary staff of the Corporation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

It is necessary to point out that if these deficiencies are not corrected by adopting
the appropriate measures to prevent the violation of what is stated in article 5.1.c)
or reiterate the behavior revealed in the claim and that is the cause of the
this procedure, as well as not immediately informing this AEPD of the
measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of possible actions before the
responsible for the treatment in order to apply effectively the measures
appropriate to guarantee and not compromise the confidentiality of the data of
personal character and the right to privacy of individuals.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE MUNICIPAL GROUP OF THE POPULAR PARTY IN VELEZ-
MALAGA, with NIF G28570927, for an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning in accordance
with what is stated in article 77.2 of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: REQUIRE the MUNICIPAL GROUP OF THE POPULAR PARTY IN
VELEZ-MALAGA, with NIF G28570927, so that within a month from the
notification of this resolution, accredits: the adoption of the necessary measures and
relevant in accordance with the regulations on data protection of
personal nature in order to prevent incidents from occurring again in the future
such as those that have given rise to the claim and adapt to the requirements
contemplated in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the MUNICIPAL GROUP OF THE PARTY
POPULAR IN VELEZ-MALAGA.

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

through the

if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

