 

 

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

 
PRESS RELEASE
 

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen
 

Bremen/Bremerhaven,
March 18, 2022

The GDPR has a noticeable effect and will be felt
 
On the occasion of the presentation of their 4th activity report according to the General Data Protection Regulation
(DSGVO) provides the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. imke summer,
states that after almost four years, the GDPR has arrived in people's reality.
 
The GDPR has a noticeable effect
Those operated by the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI).
data protection supervisory procedures lead to concrete improvements in the situation
affected holders of fundamental rights.
Examples include:

• the employer who had asked their employees to enclose photos of their test results in a

upload corporate WhatsApp group and not just this practice but that
ended all use of this provider,

• the school that gave up the project via the learning platform without involving the

Coordinate vaccination appointments for the children with custody

• and the company that allows unauthorized access to folders containing employee data

locked.

In other cases, those affected could at least
achieve that the data protection deficits, according to the assurances of those responsible
Places will not repeat at least in the future.
It was like this

• at the public order office, which had collected unnecessary copies of ID cards,
• the service provider in the event industry, the lists with private landline and

handed over the cell phone numbers of his own employees to the organizer,
• and the department store detective, who snapped a photo of an alleged

Caught in the act made and this in a WhatsApp group with his
colleagues had uploaded.

The number of complaints lodged with the LfDI by those affected was as soon as it came into effect
of the GDPR has skyrocketed and since then has averaged more than nine
complaints per week.
 
The GDPR is noticeable
The GDPR is now also applicable to bodies that process personal data
become reality.
The number of data protection violations reported to the LfDI by those responsible
has increased continuously since the GDPR came into force on May 25, 2018. In the past year
there were 196. These include, for example, two cases in which in the health sector

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Arndtstraße 1, 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 • Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

employed persons used patient data for their own purposes. In one case was
a patient has been contacted for private purposes via a messenger service and in which
In another case, an employee of a medical service allegedly had photos of
computer screens and forwarded for private use.
It can be expected that the number of data breaches reported to the LfDI
will increase significantly in the future, because proactive reports in the assessment of
Fines according to the GDPR are taken into account to reduce sanctions.
 
At the end of 2021, the LfDI could start for those registered since the GDPR came into force
to impose fines for violations of data protection law in accordance with Article 83 GDPR. For this the
Annual report five cases. Since then, seven further notifications have been made
Imposition of fines under Article 83 GDPR, four of which are already final.
 
“The increase in the number of complaints, the increase in those reported by responsible bodies
Data breaches and the increase in fines imposed show that the effects
of the GDPR are becoming more and more noticeable," said the State Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of Information. “In our digitized society there is hardly a social one
A problem that does not at least have a data protection aspect. Whether it is in her role as
Employees, tenants or parents or whether they face the administration: The GDPR
works and protects people in all walks of life.”
 
And here is the connection to freedom of information, to which the state commissioner for
Data Protection and Freedom of Information presented its 16th annual report: “Without whistleblowers,
so without people who inform us about social grievances, the dark field would be
of violations of the law in the area of data protection is much higher. When implementing the EU
Whistleblower Protection Policy, we must note that these important
Informants must also be comprehensively protected if they violate
uncover German law and if they of the grievances outside of a
experienced employment relationship."
 

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

