 

 
 

 
 
Details of reprimand 
 
To confirm, this reprimand has been issued in respect of the following processing 
operations that have infringed the UK GDPR: 
 
•  Article 5(1)(a) of the UK GDPR which states that personal data shall be 

 stated that the processing of SCD was covered 

 did not identify an appropriate lawful basis for the 

“processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data 
subject (lawfulness, fairness and transparency)” 
 
In particular, 
processing of special category data (SCD). 
 
In its response to the ICO, 
by Article 9(2)(b) which states that; 
 
“processing is necessary for the purposes of carrying out the obligations and 
exercising specific rights of the controller or of the data subject in the field of 
employment and social security and social protection law in so far as it is 
authorised by Union or Member State law or a collective agreement pursuant 
to Member State law providing for appropriate safeguards for the fundamental 
rights and the interests of the data subject”. 
 
ICO guidance states that examples of such processing of SCD under Article 
9(2)(b) would include; 
 
•  checking if individuals are entitled to work in the UK; 
 
•  ensuring health, safety and welfare of employees; 
 
•  maintaining records of statutory sick pay and maternity pay; or 
 
•  deducting trade union subscriptions from payroll. 
 
Furthermore, ICO guidance states that the purpose must be to comply with 
employment law, or social security and social protection law; and that a data 
controller must be able to identify the specific legal obligation or right in 

 

 

 

 
 

question. The condition does not cover processing purely to meet contractual 
employment rights or obligations. 
 
The data controller must also be able to justify why the processing is 
necessary, and that it is a reasonable and proportionate way of meeting the 
specific legal obligation or right. 
 
When asked what obligation under employment law made the processing 
necessary, 
 has stated it is to comply with Section 9 of the Working Time 
Regulations 1998 (Exhibit 1.3). Specifically, this requires employers to keep 
adequate records of timekeeping. 
 
It is the ICO’s view that 
processing of biometric data was a necessity and did not provide sufficient 
justification as to why other less intrusive methods would not fully meet the 
needs identified. 
 
Whilst 
had been tried, and were found to be less effective, 
 did not sufficiently 
demonstrate why biometric data was the only effective method of achieving 
its purpose. 
 
Article 9(2)(b) was not a legitimate legal basis for the processing. This is an 
infringement of Article 5(1)(a) as the SCD was not, therefore, processed 
lawfully.  
 
 

 has not adequately demonstrated that the 

 had stated that alternative methods for meeting the same purpose 

•  Article 9(1) of the UK GDPR which states that “processing of personal data 
revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical 
beliefs, or trade-union membership, and the processing of genetic data, 
biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data 
concerning health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual 
orientation shall be prohibited”. 
 
Article 9(2) then proceeds to state “Paragraph 1 shall not apply if one of the 
following applies”. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

Subparagraphs (a) – (j) then list the conditions in which Paragraph 1 does not 
apply, and are referred to as the lawful bases for processing. 
 
As stated above, the lawful basis provided by 
valid. This resulted in SCD being processed, despite being prohibited by Article 
9(1). This is an infringement of Article (9)(1). 

, Article 9(2)(b), was not 

 
•  Article 35 of the UK GDPR which states that “where a type of processing in 
particular using new technologies, and taking into account the nature, scope, 
context and purposes of the processing, is likely to result in a high risk to the 
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller shall, prior to the 
processing, carry out an assessment of the impact of the envisaged 
processing operations on the protection of personal data. A single assessment 
may address a set of similar processing operations that present similar high 
risks.” 
 

 has confirmed that the system had been in use since 2014, but that in 
2019 it decided to carry out a PIA as part of its data protection compliance 
processes, and in order to take a “fresh view“ of the system and consider any 
possible improvements. 
 
As a result of this process, 
improvements that could be made in order to improve transparency in relation 
to the use of biometric data. 
 
In fact, 
(DPIA) prior to the introduction of the UK GDPR in May 2018. 
 

should have carried out a Data Protection Impact Assessment 

 identified what it considered to be minor 

should have been aware that the introduction of the UK GDPR made 

biometric processing a class of SCD, which had not been the case before. This 
means that any previous PIA or risk assessment would no longer be adequate, 
and a DPIA specific to the UK GDPR requirements was necessary. 
 
The responses provided by 
prior to the introduction of the UK GDPR to assess the risks of the biometric 
processing. 
 
This is an infringement of Article 35. 

demonstrate that no DPIA was carried out 

 

 

 
 

 

 

, if not already done so, 

 has already suspended processing of 

Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner is aware that 
biometric processing upon the reopening of its venues, and that its potential 
future use is currently under review. 
 
The ICO now requests that a DPIA be carried out by 
before any future biometric processing is considered. 
 
Any future biometric processing, for any purpose, should only be undertaken 
once a clear and valid lawful basis for that processing has been identified under 
Article 9. 
 
Whilst the above measures are suggestions, I would like to point out that if 
further information, incidents or complaints relating to this matter come to light, 
we will revisit this matter and formal regulatory action may be considered as a 
result. 
 
Further information about compliance with the data protection legislation which is 
relevant to this case can be found at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/ 
 
We actively publicise our regulatory activity and outcomes, as this helps us to 
achieve our strategic aims in upholding information rights in the public interest. 
We may publish information about cases reported to us, for example where we 
think there is an opportunity for other organisations to learn or where the case 
highlights a risk or novel issue. 
 
Therefore, we may publish the outcome of this investigation to publicise our 
regulatory authority and new powers under the UK GDPR. We will publish 
information in accordance with our Communicating Regulatory and Enforcement 
Activity Policy, which is available online at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico enforcement communications policy.pdf  
 
Please let us know if you have any concerns about this. 
 
Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation.  
 

 

 

