  Friday, June 16, 2023 2: Press releases Announcement - "Save the date!" - Summer academy in Kiel on September 11, 2023 Summer academy "From the census verdict to the GDPR: Is data protection fit for AI & Co.?"
on September 11, 2023 in Kiel As every year, the data protection summer academy will take place in late summer
keel instead. The topic this time: "From the census verdict to the GDPR: Is data protection fit for AI & Co.?" 2023 is an anniversary year for data protection: 40 years of the right to informational self-determination, 15 years of basic computer rights, 5 years of the GDPR. These milestones in data protection still shape our view of the topic today. Over the past years and decades, data protection has developed from a niche topic into a long-running issue. Most of those responsible know their obligations, many data subjects know their rights. Supervisory authorities and courts carry out their duties and apply data protection law. 2023 is also the year of artificial intelligence (AI). What was previously only available in the laboratory and only for a few specialists is now available to everyone and permeates almost all areas of life. At the same time, the European data strategy is pursuing the goal of a "data-driven society" with the paradigm of data sharing. Do the current developments related to data sharing and AI go together with the milestones in data protection from the past few years? How can local data protection officers and supervisory authorities deal with the change? And how can undesired effects of actually good data protection instruments be avoided? Summer Academy 2023 Experts from practice and science will pursue these questions at the Summer Academy. The different perspectives give an insight into the current and future challenges related to data and people. The focus is on approaches with which we can better implement data protection together with the other fundamental rights in the digital world. As usual, numerous information exchanges will take place in the afternoon, in which current topics in data protection will be presented. Lecturers:
* dr h.c. Marit Hansen,
State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
* Sjoera Nas,
Senior Privacy Consultant, Privacy Company, The Hague, The Netherlands
* Catherine Nocun,
Economist and political scientist, civil rights activist, publicist
* Prof. Dr. Anne Paschke,
Professor of public law, technology law and the law of digitization, TU Braunschweig
* Prof. Dr. Alexander Rossnagel,
The Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
* Dirk Schroedter,
Minister and Head of the State Chancellery of the State of Schleswig-Holstein
Information on the program and registration will follow shortly under the following link: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/sommerakademie/2023/
We will inform you as soon as the program and the registration function are available.
If you have any questions, please contact:
The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de">mail@datenschutzzentrum.de