1(2)

Inera AB
registrar@inera.se

Diary number:
DI-2019-2900
Your diary number:
201903-016

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation against Inera AB

Date:
2021-06-07

The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
The case is closed.

Background
On February 18, 2019, Computer Sweden published an article with the title "2.7
million recorded calls to 1177 Vårdguiden completely unprotected on the internet". In the article
is stated, among other things, that "On an open web server, completely without password protection or
other security, we have found 2.7 million recorded calls to the advice number 1177.”
It was clear from Inera's website that Inera AB manages and develops the commons
the systems for the 1177 Care guide on the phone that the regions need in their operations.
IMY started written supervision against Inera AB on 5 March 2019 to check how Inera
processed personal data on care seekers within the framework of advisory number 1177.
IMY also started supervision of Voice Integrate Nordic AB and MedHelp AB. It appeared
that three regions used MedHelp as a care provider when care seekers call 1177 for
healthcare advice and partly Inera AB to connect the calls to MedHelp. IMY
therefore initiated supervision of the Health and Medical Board Region Stockholm,
The Regional Board Region Sörmland and the Regional Board Region Värmland.

Justification of the decision

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

According to Article 4.7 of the data protection regulation, the person in charge of personal data means a
natural or legal person, public authority, institution or other body which
alone or together with others determines the ends and the means for
the processing of personal data. By personal data assistant is meant, according to article 4.8 i
the regulation, a natural or legal person, public authority, institution or other
bodies that process personal data on behalf of the data controller. According to
Article 32 has both the person responsible for personal data and the personal data assistant
obligations relating to security in connection with the processing of
the personal data.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2019-2900
Date: 2021-06-07

2(2)

Inera states, among other things, the following. In the capacity of personal data assistant for the regions
Stockholm, Sörmland and Värmland process Inera phone numbers for people who
calls 1177. All 1177 calls are initially routed to Inera's contact center where it is
a check if the municipality ID is equal to Stockholm, Sörmland or Värmland. Is so
case, an outgoing call is created from Inera's contact center to MedHelp AB's
contact center whereupon MedHelp AB takes over the call. The call then leaves Inera's system
completely. Inera does not store any of MedHelp's recorded calls and has no contract with MedHelp.
IMY states that Inera processes personal data in connection with care seekers
dial 1177. This treatment is carried out by Inera on behalf of the regions in the capacity of
personal data assistant. However, Inera is not responsible, either
personal data controller or personal data assistant, for that personal data processing
which MedHelp AB performs during the actual healthcare consultation or for the storage of audio files
with recorded calls to 1177 when MedHelp AB is the healthcare provider who answers
the conversations.
The case is therefore closed without action.
This decision has been taken by the general manager Lena Lindgren Schelin after a presentation
by department director Suzanne Isberg. During the processing, the unit manager has
Katarina Tullstedt participated. In the final proceedings, the IT security specialist Magnus Bergström, the legal director David Törngren and
unit manager Malin Blixt participated.

Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2021-06-07 (This is an electronic signature)

