

Bonn/Berlin, June 16, 2020


Press release 12/2020


  Data protection with Corona-Warn-App sufficient
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber commented on the Corona warning app on June 16. The BfDI had accompanied the development process in an advisory capacity: "From the point of view of data protection, I see no reason against an installation. But there are still weaknesses. The responsible authorities and companies have to make adjustments there. As the responsible supervisory authority, we will check that our advice is implemented as quickly as possible.”

For Professor Kelber, the documents on data protection are crucial when starting the app: It is important to me that, in addition to the source code, the data protection impact assessment in particular has been made publicly accessible. The more transparent the whole project is, the more trust the citizens will have.
The BfDI calls for adjustments in one area in particular:
The media break from the app to the telephone hotline is not a good solution. The reasons why a hotline is being set up are plausible from our point of view. However, it is clear that using the hotline cannot keep up with completely pseudonymous use of the app via the automated process.
Through detailed advice, the BfDI has averted the inappropriate storage of personal data of all callers to the hotline. The Robert Koch Institute and the Ministry of Health must now create the necessary conditions as quickly as possible so that the automated process can be used by as many app users as possible.
When dealing with the app, there is an important limit for the BfDI: it is not permissible under any circumstances for third parties to demand insight into the app. I can only give a strong warning to the owners of shops or public transport: don't even try!
With the start of the app, the BfDI takes over the supervision of its operation. This means that the authority has all the options of the General Data Protection Regulation at its disposal: This means that the BfDI checks and controls as part of its data protection supervision. And – if there are any deficiencies – we will intervene.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











