DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 
 

 

 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

 

 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

 

 

To:  Digivo Media Limited 

 

 

 

   

Of:  Office One, 1 Coldbath Square, London, EC1R 5HL 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

 

 

 

 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to 
issue Digivo Media Limited (“Digivo”) with a monetary penalty under 
 
section 55A of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The penalty is in 
relation to a serious contravention of Regulation 22 of the Privacy and 
Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (“PECR”). 

 
 
   
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal framework 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Digivo, whose registered office is given above (Companies House 
Registration Number: 12806848) is the organisation stated in this 
notice to have transmitted and instigated the transmission of 
unsolicited communications by means of electronic mail to individual 
subscribers for the purposes of direct marketing contrary to regulation 
22 of PECR. 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 22 of PECR states: 

 

 

 

1 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
5. 
 
 

Section 122(5) of the Data Protection Act 2018 “DPA18” defines direct 
marketing as “the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 
 
or marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 
 
definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 
PECR and paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule 19 of the DPA18). 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. 
 

 
7. 
 

 
8. 
 

9. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   
 

From 1 January 2021, consent in PECR  has been defined by reference 
 
to the concept of consent in the UK GDPR as defined in section 3(10) of 
 
 
the DPA 2018[1]: see regulation 2(1) of PECR, as amended by Part 3 of 
 
Schedule 3, paragraph 44 of The Data Protection, Privacy and 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019/419. Article 4(11) of the UK GDPR sets out the following 
 
definition: “‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, 
 
specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 
 
wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative 
 
action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating 
 
to him or her”. 
 

   
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
   

 
 
A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 
 
 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 
 
“Electronic mail” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “any text, 
 
voice, sound or image message sent over a public electronic 
 
 
communications network which can be stored in the network or in the 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[1] The UK GDPR is therein defined as Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
 
April  2016 (“GDPR”)  as it forms part of  the  law  of England  and  Wales, Scotland  and  Northern  Ireland  by virtue 
 
  
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

recipient’s terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 
 
 
includes messages sent using a short message service”. 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
10.  The term "soft opt-in" is used to describe the rule set out in in 
 

 
Regulation 22(3) of PECR. In essence, an organisation may be able to 
e-mail its existing customers even if they haven't specifically consented 
 
 
to electronic mail. The soft opt-in rule can only be relied upon by the 
 
organisation that collected the contact details. 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.  Section 55A of the DPA (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
PECR, as variously amended) states: 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
“(1) The Commissioner may serve a person with a monetary penalty if 

   

 

 

 

 
  
the Commissioner is satisfied that – 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 
(a) there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 
 
Directive) Regulations 2003 by the person, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

 

 

 

 
(2)  This subsection applies if the contravention was deliberate. 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
(3)  This subsection applies if the person – 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
(a) knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that the 
 
contravention would occur, but 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(b) failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
contravention.” 

12.  The Commissioner has issued statutory guidance under section 55C (1) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of the DPA about the issuing of monetary penalties that has been 
 
published on the ICO’s website. The Data Protection (Monetary 
 
Penalties) (Maximum Penalty and Notices) Regulations 2010 prescribe 
that the amount of any penalty determined by the Commissioner must 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

not exceed £500,000. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

13.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 
 

 
privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
 
rights. 
 
  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Background to the case 
 

 

 
15.  Digivo was incorporated on 11 August 2020 and the registered address 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
is Office One, 1 Coldbath Square, London, EC1R 5HL. There is one 
  
director appointed, Sebastian Powdrill. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
16.  Digivo trades as Rid My Debt. Individuals use the Rid My Debt website 
to help find debt solutions by inputting their personal information and 
 
details of their outstanding debts; their information is then passed to 
 
Digivo’s panel of debt service finders and providers so that these third 
  
parties can offer debt management solutions. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
17.  Mobile users can report the receipt of unsolicited marketing text 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

  
messages to the Mobile UK’s Spam Reporting Service by forwarding the 
 
 
 

 

 

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

message to 7726 (spelling out “SPAM”). Mobile UK is an organisation 
 
that represents the interests of mobile operators in the UK. The 
 
Commissioner is provided with access to the data on complaints made 
 
 
to the 7726 service and this data is used to ascertain organisations in 
 
breach of PECR. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
18.  Digivo came to the ICO’s attention following a review of debt 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

management complaints received via the SPAM reporting tool. 
 
 

 

 

 

19.  Complaints research by the Commissioner indicated that 943 spam text 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reports about Digivo had been submitted to 7726, as well as one 
 
complaint submitted to the ICO directly. The text message scripts were 
 
as follows: 
 
 
NAME, new laws mean you can write off debts you cannot afford to 
 
repay. Stop creditor action. https://cutt.ly/RidMyDebt for FREE pack. 
 
 
STOP?07520648329 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

NAME, credit records show you can write off 75% of your debt. Freeze 
 
 
Interest. Visit https://cutt.ly/RidMyDebt for FREE advice. 
 
STOP?07520648329 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20.  These messages constituted marketing as they encouraged individuals 
 
to go to the Rid My Debt website to get a “free pack” or “free advice”, 
 
which represented the promotion of Digivo’s products and services 
 
through the Rid My Debt website. 
 
 

 
 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.  On 8 September 2021, an investigation letter was sent to Digivo via 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

email. The letter outlined the Commissioner’s concerns about 
compliance with the PECRs, and the powers available to the ICO. It 
also asked a range of questions, including the volume of marketing 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

messages sent and delivered over the period 7 September 2020 to 7 
   
September 2021, the source of the data, and evidence of consent 
relied on by Digivo to send the marketing messages. An index of the 
 
 
944 complaints was also provided and Digivo was asked to provide an 
 
explanation for the complaints. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22.  On 29 September 2021, Sebastian Powdrill, sole director of Digivo, 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided a response to the investigation letter. He stated that: 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  479,017 text messages had been sent, of which 415,041 had 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

been delivered, over the period 7 September 2020 to 7 
   
September 2021. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  Digivo was both the instigator and the sender of the text 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
messages. 
 

  Personal data was obtained from Digivo’s website, 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

www.ridmydebt.co.uk; no other sources were used. 
 

 

 

 

 

  The text messages were sent with the purpose of legitimate 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
interest relating to debt concern. 
  

 
 

 

  Digivo relied on a check box which data subjects must tick for 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent to contact the individuals by text message. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Digivo had an SMS schedule where once a week customers who 
 
 
expressed their consent would be messaged in the interests of 
 
re-marketing. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23.  The Commissioner notes this response did not make it clear what 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
justification Digivo were relying on to send the marketing messages, 
 
since both consent and legitimate interests were referenced. Mr 
 
Powdrill stated that Digivo sent the data “with the purpose of legitimate 
 
interest” but also that the data collection box includes “a check box 
 
where the customer agrees to give their consent to receive email, SMS 
 
and telephone communication”. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

24.  When the Commissioner examined Divigo's privacy policy, it appeared 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

that Digivo relied on consent: 
 
 
“You will receive marketing communications from us if you have 
 
consented to received (sic) information for products and services from 
us.” 
 
 
In Digivo's response it was confirmed that marketing text messages 
 
were first sent on 24 March 2021. The start of the contravention period 
was necessarily adjusted from 7 September 2020 to 24 March 2021. 
 
The full contravention period is therefore 24 March 2021 to 7 
   
 
September 2021, a period of just under  six months. 
 
  

   
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26.  Digivo also stated: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“We only send out marketing communication in alignment with 
 
legitimate interests, this way we can ensure the customer only sees 
 
 
 
what service they are interested in.” 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

27.  From this response it appeared that Digivo relied on legitimate 
 
interests to send marketing messages, which contrasts with the 
 
information provided to individuals in Digivo’s privacy policy. However, 
 
in order to send the marketing messages in compliance with Regulation 
 
22, Digivo would need to have relied on consent or the soft opt-in. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

28.  Digivo provided a screenshot of the data collection form relied on to 
 
justify sending marketing messages to data subjects. However, this 
  
 
form asked individuals to “agree”, rather than giving individuals the 
option to opt out. Digivo stated: 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

“The customer agrees to give their consent to receive email, SMS and 
 
 
telephone communication and agrees to our privacy policy and our 
 
terms and conditions.” 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
29.  The Commissioner asked Digivo whether customers would be able to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
click the “write off my debt!” box without ticking the “I agree” tick box. 
Initially, Digivo stated: 
 
“It was always the case that you could submit an application without 
 
   
ticking the tick box. However, upon checking this again now I can see it 
 
won’t let you submit the form without ticking the box." 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
30.  Further, Digivo explained: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“There is no way someone buying that lead can provide their debt 
solution service without that box being ticked i.e. being able to contact 
 
the customer." 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
31.  Therefore, it appeared that whilst the tick box asked individuals to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 
consent to being contacted by a trusted debt solution provider, it did 
 
not actually give customers any other choice but to consent. As such, 
 
any consent obtained in this way was invalid, as the consent had been 
 
made a pre-condition of service and customers were not given any 
 
genuine choice. 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
32.  With regards to the volume of text messages sent and delivered in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
contravention of the PECR, Digivo explained that: 
 
 
“At the point of application we will not make any contact to the 
 
applicant only our partners will contact them directly. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

The messages sent only relate to marketing only and not 
 
 
transactional.” 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

33.  This indicated that, of the 479,017 messages sent, none of those were 
 
 
solicited messages sent directly in response to the submission of a loan 
 
   
application; nor were any of the messages included in this figure 
 
service messages. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34.  Therefore, the Commissioner was able to conclude that 479,017 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unsolicited marketing messages were sent in contravention of the PECR 
 
over the course of just under six months, of which 415,041 were 
 
delivered. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

'. Digivo confirmed this: 
 

 
35.  Following further investigation into various types of trading styles in 
 
the industry, a link was found between Digivo and the trading style 
 
' 
 
We used this sender name 
“We have a relationship with […] 
 
 
because we felt like it gave the simplest description on what service we 
 
offer.” 
 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36.  Digivo confirmed that the 
 

 

 

 

messages were included in the 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

volume of messages described in paragraph 34, so this volume did not 
’ complaints over the contravention 
increase. There were 452 ‘ 
 
 
 
period, increasing the total number of complaints received to 1,396. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

37.  The Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
balance of probabilities. 
 
 

 

 

38.  The Commissioner has considered whether those facts constitute 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a contravention of regulation 22 of PECR by Digivo and, if so, whether 
 
 
the conditions of section 55A DPA are satisfied. 
  

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

10 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
The contravention 

 

39.  The Commissioner finds that Digivo contravened regulation 22 of PECR. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

41.  The Commissioner finds that between 24 March 2021 and 7 September 
 
2021 there were 415,041 direct marketing SMS received by individuals. 
 
The Commissioner finds that Digivo transmitted and instigated the 
 
transmission of those direct marketing messages, contrary to 
 
 
regulation 22 of PECR. 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
42.  Digivo, as the sender and instigator of the direct marketing, is required 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to ensure that it is acting in compliance with the requirements of 
 
regulation 22 of PECR, and to ensure that valid consent to send those 
 
 
messages had been acquired. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 
43.  For consent to be valid it is required to be “freely given”, by which it 
   
follows that if consent to marketing is a condition of subscribing to a 
   
service, the organisation will have to demonstrate how the consent can 
 
be said to have been given freely. Digivo relied on a statement which 
 
must be ticked to proceed with the application, meaning that the 
 
consent obtained was not freely given. 
 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44.  Consent is also required to be “specific” as to the type of marketing 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication to be received, and the organisation, or specific type of 
 
organisation, that will be sending it. In this instance, the statement 
asked individuals to consent to receiving email, telephone, and SMS, 
 
with no option to pick between the communication channels. This 
 
meant the consent obtained by Digivo was not specific. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 

 
 
 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

45.  Consent will not be “informed” if individuals do not understand what 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
   

they are consenting to. Organisations should therefore always ensure 
 
that the language used is clear, easy to understand, and not hidden 
 
away in a privacy policy or small print. Consent will not be valid if 
 
individuals are asked to agree to receive marketing from “similar 
 
 
organisations”, “partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar 
generic description. In this instance, the statement does not reference 
 
 
marketing at all and only stated that individuals would be contacted by 
third party debt solution providers, not that the individual would 
 
receive further contact from Digivo, so the consent obtained was not 
 
informed. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
46.  With regards to relying on the soft opt-in, Digivo would have needed to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provide individuals with the chance to opt out of future marketing at 
the point of collecting their personal data; this opportunity was not 
provided, therefore Digivo were unable to rely on the soft opt-in to 
 
justify sending unsolicited marketing messages. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

47.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied from the evidence he has seen 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that Digivo did not have the necessary valid consent for the 415,041 
 
direct marketing messages received by individual subscribers. 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
48.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the conditions 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
under section 55A DPA are met. 
 
 
 

 

 
Seriousness of the contravention 
 

49.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the contravention identified 

 

 

 

 

 

   
above was serious. This is because, between 24 March 2021 and 7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

12 

 

   

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
September 2021, a confirmed total of 415,041 direct marketing 
 
messages were sent by Digivo and received by individual subscribers. 
  
These messages contained direct marketing material for which 
 
individual subscribers had not provided valid consent. Furthermore, the 
 
Commissioner is satisfied that Digivo cannot rely on the soft opt-in 
 
exemption. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

50.  Additionally, the Commissioner considers the contravention “serious” 
 
because in Digivo’s response to the investigation letter, a copy of the 
 
current database was provided, which contained 22,214 separate 
 
records. Digivo stated that they sent marketing on a weekly basis to 
 
 
those who had “consented”, which is likely to mean every customer 
 
who applied using the RidMyDebt website, given that they were unable 
 
to submit an application without checking the box that Digivo relied on 
 
 
as consent. This means there is the potential that 22,214 unsolicited 
 
marketing messages were being sent each week, or 1,155,128 per 
 
year. 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
51.  Further, the contravention is serious due to the fact that 1,396 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
   

complaints were submitted during the contravention period, including 
one to the ICO’s online reporting tool. Additionally, a further 202 
 
complaints were submitted to the 7726 spam text reporting tool since 
 
the end date of the contravention period and up to 18 May 2022. These 
 
 
complaints appear to involve the same scripts as provided to the 
 
 
Commissioner during the investigation period. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

52.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (a) from 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

section 55A(1) DPA is met. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

13 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 
 
 

 

 

53.  The Commissioner has considered whether the contravention identified 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above was deliberate. In the Commissioner’s view, this means that 
actions which constituted that contravention were deliberate actions 
 
(even if Digivo did not actually intend thereby to contravene PECR). 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
54.  The Commissioner considers that in this case Digivo did deliberately 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contravene regulation 22 of PECR. This is because: 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Digivo appeared to have a connection to 
 
 

   

 

 

, 
 

indicated via the apparent copying of their website format. 
  

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

  Digivo’s probable connection with other affiliated companies 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
within the sub-prime market. 
 

 

 

 

  The volume of subsequent complaints submitted during and post 
 

 

 

 

 

 

investigation period. 
 

 

55.  For the above reasons, the Commissioner is satisfied that this breach 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
was deliberate. 
  
 

56.  Further and in the alternative, the Commissioner has gone on to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consider whether the contravention identified above was negligent. 
 
This consideration comprises two elements: 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

57.  Firstly, he has considered whether Digivo knew or ought reasonably to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

have known that there was a risk that these contraventions would 
occur. He is satisfied that this condition is met on the basis that the 
 
organisation and director should have been aware of their 
 
responsibilities to comply with the relevant legislation. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
58.  The Commissioner has published detailed guidance for those carrying 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

out direct marketing explaining their legal obligations under PECR. 
  
This guidance gives clear advice regarding the requirements of consent 
for direct marketing and explains the circumstances under  which 
 
organisations are able to carry out marketing over the phone, by text, 
 
 
by email, by post, or by fax. In particular it states that organisations 
 
can generally only send, or instigate, marketing messages to 
 
individuals if that person has specifically consented to receiving them. 
 
The guidance also provides a full explanation of the soft opt-in 
 
exemption. The Commissioner has also published detailed guidance on 
 
consent under the GDPR. In case organisations remain unclear on their 
 
obligations, the ICO operates a telephone helpline. ICO 
communications about previous enforcement action where businesses 
 
have not complied with PECR are also readily available. 
 
 
 
It is therefore reasonable to suppose that Digivo should have been 
 
aware of their responsibilities in this area. 

   
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

59. 
 

 

 

 
 
60.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on to consider whether Digivo 
 

 
failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the contraventions. Again, he 
  
is satisfied that this condition is met. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

61.  The ICO produces clear guidance via its website on the rules of direct 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

marketing. In addition, the ICO operates a helpline should 
 
organisations require further clarification or assistance with specific 
enquiries. Should Digivo have any questions regarding their direct 
 
marketing techniques, it would have been reasonable to consult these 
 
resources. 
 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
62.  Further, it is clear that, at the point of being notified of the 
 

 
Commissioner's investigation, Digivo were aware of risks. The 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

subsequent volume of complaints following this point in time illustrates 
 
the organisation failed to take reasonable steps to avoid further 
 
contraventions. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
63. 
 

 

 

In the circumstances, the Commissioner is satisfied that Digivo failed to 
 
take reasonable steps to prevent the contraventions. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
64.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (b) from section 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

55A (1) DPA is met. 
 
 
The Commissioner’s decision to issue a monetary penalty 
 

   

 

 

 
65.  The Commissioner has taken into account the following 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
aggravating feature of this case: 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
  Of the individuals involved, there will have likely been a 
 
 

proportion of subscribers in receipt of marketing texts who are 
 
financially vulnerable. The Panel are mindful that some debt 
management options are not always in the best interests of those 
 
 
suffering financial hardship. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
66.  The Commissioner found no mitigating factors. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
67.  For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
conditions from section 55A (1) DPA have been met in this case. He is 
 
also satisfied that the procedural rights under section 55B have been 
 
complied with. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
68.  The latter has included the issuing of a Notice of Intent, dated 25 May 
 
2023, in which the Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking. In 
 
reaching his final view, the Commissioner has taken into account the 
 
representations made by Digivo on this matter. 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

69.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to issue a monetary penalty 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case. 
 
 

70.  The Commissioner has considered whether, in the circumstances, he 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

 
   

 

should exercise his discretion so as to issue a monetary penalty. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

71.  The Commissioner has considered the likely impact of a monetary 
 
penalty on Digivo. In doing so, the Commissioner has given careful 
 
consideration to the representations made by Digivo in response to the 
 
 
 
Notice of Intent. However, the Commissioner has decided that a 
 
penalty nevertheless remains the appropriate course of action in the 
 
 
circumstances of this case. 
  

 
 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
72.  The Commissioner’s underlying objective in imposing a monetary 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

   

 
 

 
   
 

penalty notice is to promote compliance with PECR. The sending of 
 
unsolicited direct marketing messages is a matter of significant public 
 
concern. A monetary penalty in this case should act as a general 
encouragement towards compliance with the law, or at least as a 
   
deterrent against non-compliance, on the part of all persons running 
businesses currently engaging in these practices. The issuing of a 
   
monetary penalty will reinforce the need for businesses to ensure that 
 
they are only messaging those who specifically consent to receive 
 
direct marketing. 
 
 
 
In making his decision, the Commissioner has also had regard to the 
factors set out in s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015; including: 
the nature and level of risks associated with non-compliance, including 
the risks to economic growth; the steps taken by the business to 
 
achieve compliance and reasons for its failure; the willingness and 
ability of the business to address non-compliance; the likely impact of 
 
the proposed intervention on the business, and the likely impact of the 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17 

73. 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

proposed intervention on the wider business community, both in terms 
 
 
of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 
 
businesses. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

74.  For these reasons, the Commissioner has decided to issue a monetary 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

penalty in this case. 
 
 
The amount of the penalty 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

75.  Taking into account all of the above, the Commissioner has decided 
that a penalty in the sum of £50,000 (fifty thousand pounds) is 
 
reasonable and proportionate given the particular facts of the case and 
 
 
the underlying objective in imposing the penalty. 
 
 
Conclusion 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

76.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner’s office by 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
BACS transfer or cheque by 2 November 2023 at the latest. The 
 
monetary penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but will be paid into 
 
 
the Consolidated Fund which is the Government’s general bank account 
 
at the Bank of England. 
 
 
If the Commissioner receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 
 
1 November 2023 the Commissioner will reduce the monetary 
 
penalty by 20% to £40,000 (forty thousand pounds). However, you 
 
should be aware that the early payment discount is not available if you 
 
decide to exercise your right of appeal. 
  
 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

77. 
 

78.  There is a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

against: 
 
 
(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
              
 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the monetary penalty 
 
     
 

and/or; 
 

notice. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

79.  Any notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 
  
 
Information about appeals is set out in Annex 1. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80. 
 

81.  The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a monetary penalty 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unless: 
 
 

  the period specified within the notice within which a monetary 
 
 

 

 

 

 

penalty must be paid has expired and all or any of the monetary 
 
penalty has not been paid; 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

  all relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice and any 
 
 

 

 

 

variation of it have either been decided or withdrawn; and 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  the period for appealing against the monetary penalty and any 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

variation of it has expired. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the monetary penalty is 
 
 
recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court. In 
 
Scotland, the monetary penalty can be enforced in the same manner as 
 
an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution 
 
 
issued by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland. 
  

   
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19 

82. 
 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
Dated the 3rd  day of October 2023 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Andy Curry 
 
Head of Investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

20 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
ANNEX 1 
 

 

SECTION 55 A-E OF THE DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 
  

 

 

 

 

 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
   
 

Section 55B(5) of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person 
 

1. 
 
upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been served a right of 
 
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the ‘Tribunal’) 
against the notice. 
 
 
2. 
 
 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 
 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 
accordance with the law; or 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of 
 

b) 
 
discretion by the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised 
 
his discretion differently, 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 
 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
 
could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 
 
3. 
 
 
Tribunal at the following address: 
 
  
 
   
    
   
 

General Regulatory Chamber 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Leicester 
 
LE1 8DJ 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 
Email: 
 

grc@justice.gov.uk 
 

 

 

 
 
 

a) 

The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received by the 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the notice. 
  
 
If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not admit it 
b) 
 
unless the Tribunal has extended the time for complying with this 
 
 
rule. 
 
 
The notice of appeal should state:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. 
 
 

your name and address/name and address of your 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

a) 
representative (if any); 
 
b) 
     
you; 
 
 

an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

the name and address of the Information Commissioner; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the result that you are seeking; 
 

 

 

 

 

c) 
 
d) 
 
 
e) 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

the grounds on which you rely; 
 

you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the 
 

f) 
 
 
g) 
 
monetary penalty notice or variation notice; 
 
 
h) 
if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the 
 
 
notice of appeal must include a request for an extension of time 
 
 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

and the reason why the notice of appeal was not provided in 
 
time. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

Before deciding whether or not to appeal you may wish to consult 
 

 
5. 
 
your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a party 
 
may conduct his case himself or may be represented by any person 
 
whom he may appoint for that purpose. 
 
 
6. 
 
Tribunal (Information Rights) are contained in section 55B(5) of, and 
Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 
 
(First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 
 
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 
 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier 
 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

23 

