1/88

 File No.: PS/00046/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection (as regards
hereafter, AEPD) and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party one), on September 2
2019, files a claim with the AEPD against ORANGE ESPAÑA
VIRTUAL, S.L. with NIF B85057974 (hereinafter, SIMYO), for the following reasons:
“On 8/14/19 my mobile phone owned by me with number ***TELEFONO.1
belonging to the SIMYO operator, it does not have a line, so the area consulted
staff of said operator from my computer, in the menu section it reads
verbatim:
SIM change Mission accomplished! We have already delivered your duplicate SIM,
remember that to activate it you have to go to the section DUPLICATE / ACTIVATE SIM
from the menu.
DATE OF REALIZATION DATE 08/14/2019 TIME 21:15:40 TELEPHONE NUMBER
***TELEPHONE 1.
When reviewing the personal data recorded in the SIMYO application, it is observed
as the email account has been changed, deleting the one from which
subscribes, and consigning the account ***EMAIL.1 not knowing the reason for this
change.
At this time proceed to change the keys of the SIMYO application to
avoid a new fraudulent access, and to suspend the three (3) contracts of
postpaid, which I have with said company, passing the numbers ***TELEFONO.1,
***PHONE.2 and ***PHONE.3 to the OFF status, no
being able to make or receive phone calls.
This party wishes to state that it has not applied to the SIMYO company for any
duplicate SIM card, so it is proven that my phone
particular ***TELEFONO.1 has been kidnapped and criminals have accessed
the application of the bank ING DIRECT in a fraudulent way through the control of the
mobile phone number.
Contacted the SIMYO operator, they report that said request for
DUPLICATE SIM card has been made in a physical store, and has been
purchased a duplicate SIM.
Asked in which store such manifest duplicate purchase occurred
that this information would be made available to the Authorities
police/judicial when they know that the incident has been reported
legally. This party has denounced everything that happened before the Judicial Police of the
Huelva Civil Guard, complaint No. XXX/XX. The Civil Guard has reported that the
Fraudulent duplication of the SIM card has occurred in a store in Barcelona
and that the employee who did it is identified as reported by ORANGE. Is
The party can submit the complaint to the Judicial Police if they require it opportunely.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/88

SIMYO has violated my personal data and with it has proceeded to create
of a fraudulent duplicate SIM card which has served to do in the name
which signs two transfers of ten euros (sic) a payroll account and the
creation of a fraudulent personal loan of 43,000 euros. all because
SIMYO did not keep or have a duty to take care of my personal data.
I request that the AEPD sanction SIMYO in an exemplary manner.
I have addressed SIMYO through the channels they have established and they do not answer.
Call 121 FREE from your SIMYO mobile. (Hours: Monday to Sunday, from 8:00 a.m. to
23:00 hrs.) If you cannot call from your SIMYO mobile, call free to 1644
from any landline or mobile. in the email support@SIMYO.es I have addressed them and
they give me silence.”

Along with the claim, it provides the complaint filed with the Organic Unit of the
Judicial Police of the Civil Guard, Huelva Command, on August 15,
2019, with number of proceedings XXX/XX, in which it states:

“(…) exposes some events that occurred on August 14, 2019, consisting of
having suffered an identity theft, which as a consequence, has
replaced both on the mobile phone line, taking out a duplicate of the card
SIM of the number ***TELEFONO.1, line this registered in ING for the
online operations, such as access to your bank account of the ING entity, therefore
that by modifying your keys, you can no longer have access to it, with the
consequent economic damage that derives (...)
It is tried by this part with great nervousness and late at night, to enter the
ING DIRECT application to check the balance of the accounts and I cannot access
yield, being blocked to the introduction of three times, since the keys do not
They worked, showing that they have changed my access codes.
Next my wife tries to access B.B.B., since she is a co-owner of the
bank accounts and she can access it, noting that it exists in the positions
a fraudulent personal loan amounting to 43,000 euros, the amount of which eco-
nomic was deposited in the orange account of which I am the holder.
Likewise, there is a bank transfer made from my account ***ACCOUNT-
TA.1 (ING) for an amount of 10,000 euros to the account ***ACCOUNT.2 (BBVA).
At 9:35 p.m. on August 14, 2019, the undersigned receives in his email
private email from Gmail, from the ING DIRECT bank, where it reads, “DOCUMEN-
ORANGE LOAN TATION”, “Dear A.A.A., thank you for choosing us for the
contracting your loan (...)
At 9:43 p.m. on August 14, 2019 (…) you receive in your email
(…) an email from the ING DIRECT bank, which reads, “Dear Mr. A.A.A., (…)
We attach a copy of the documentation related to your contract (...) product
contracted payroll account number ***ACCOUNT.3, where the
all personal data of this part (…)
To state that with my telephone number ***TELEFONO.1, after reviewing
Outgoing and incoming calls from the SIMYO operator application, are
make a phone call to the number 912518375 at 22:36:22 on 8-14-2019, yes
well the one who subscribes, does not make the call and they pretend to be me. said number
(...) corresponds to the BBVA Customer Service, for which the offenders
tell, they make that call to change the passwords of the bank (...)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/88

It is requested that this case be audited as soon as possible by the services of
ity and security of the banking entity ING DIRECT, so that it is canceled and left
without effect both the orange loan number ***PRÉSTAMO.1 for the amount of
43,000 euros opened fraudulently and the account number ***ACCOUNT.3,
since both products have not been contracted by this party and have obvious
samples of banking fraud through the internet. “

Said complaint was subject to extension, on August 21, 2019, in which
states:

“(…) That the creation in the positions of the undersigned of the entity
bank ING, of three financial cards which are of fraudulent creation and
They are cancelled, but they are reported for the record and could have effects:
Debit card in the name of A.A.A. ***CARD.1
Debit card in the name of A.A.A. ***CARD.2
Credit Card in the name of A.A.A. ***CARD.3”

In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in what
hereafter, LOPDGDD), which consists of transferring them to the Delegates of
Data Protection designated by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, or
to these when they have not been appointed, and with the purpose indicated in the aforementioned
article, on November 11, 2019, the claim was transferred to SIM-
ME, to proceed with its analysis and give an answer within a month.
In response to said request, SIMYO stated -among other arguments- the following:
following:

“ (…) On August 14, 2019, it was verified that, (…) “SIM change/duplicate” to
9:15:40 p.m.
(...) to the new value ***EMAIL.1 by (...) at 18:55:30, (...) “change/duplicate
of SIM”.
The next day, August 15, 2019, Mr. A.A.A. gets in touch with
SIMYO, through the Customer Service (Call Center) indicating that it does not
recognizes neither the duplication of the SIM card made, nor the modification of
contact details (email) made. Given this story, transfer
of what happened to the Fraud Department, so that it analyzes in depth what
happened, while, in parallel, it is verified that both the change of
SIM card like the rest of the lines whose ownership corresponded to D.A.A.A.,
had been voluntarily suspended by the client, an operation that had
processed through your Personal Area.
On August 16, after the corresponding analysis of the facts, the
contacting the customer and after offering a duplicate SIM before placing the order
of definitive discharge, which is rejected, is carried out, at the request of Mr. A.A.A., the
deactivation of all your lines contracted with SIMYO. (...)
(...) As we have had the opportunity to highlight in the letter of
response to information request E-08994-2019, notified last
November, (...), the Orange Group in Spain, of which it is also a part
SIMYO has reinforced and strengthened the Protocols implemented for the processing
of certain acts (among which are the duplication of cards
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

4/88

SIM).
Indeed, it is stated that, having detected that the operation
used by alleged phishers in the SIMYO brand
consisted of (...), new modifications have been implemented in the procedure
established, in order to provide it with additional measures for greater robustness.
First of all, SIMYO has eliminated the possibility of (…), dated August 23
of 2019, in such a way that (...). This measure has been adopted bearing in mind
the nature of SIMYO Points of Sale, since they are not stores
own.
Secondly, and in relation to the above, the measure has also been adopted
of (…), because although until the date August 26, 2019 it was possible (…)”.
Thirdly, and bearing in mind that currently both the sending of the card
SIM as the subsequent activation is only possible by (...), SIMYO has
implemented, on August 26, 2019, various additional measures in the
performance of certain acts, with the aim of guaranteeing the identity of the
client in order to avoid the repetition of situations similar to the one we
occupies.(…)”

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 18 of
December 2019, in the file with no. of reference E/10534/2019.
SECOND: C.C.C., (hereinafter, the claimant party two), on November 6
of 2019, file a claim with the Granja de Torreher Post Office.
mosa, which is registered with the AEPD on November 13, 2019, addressed
against SIMYO, for the following reasons:

“(…) as of August 23, 2019, SIMYO being my telephone company,
communicates urgently to the same (via telephone and electronically) that
someone has wanted to obtain personal data on behalf of SIMYO.
A superior of SIMYO (D.D.D.) exposes me who has been brought to the attention of
the whole team what happened so that no modification or change is made in
the affected line (***PHONE.4).
An hour later, the affected person loses coverage on the phone at
consequence of someone from the SIMYO company having made a duplicate of
SIM card without the consent of the owner of the line.
The affected person calls the company from another terminal, reporting that he does not have
coverage on your phone. At this time, the same person who attended you
above, tells you not to worry, that everything is in their hands, that
in 3 days they will solve it and that they will compensate you for what happened; not commenting on
no time that a duplicate SIM card had been made.
This fact entails a series of damages and losses to the affected party and his family, since
by duplicating your SIM, outsiders obtained all kinds of data, including
banks, using them to carry out a subtraction of (30,000 Euros) from
the bank account shared by the affected person with his family, who had to
block all bank accounts and credit cards, in addition to suffering
psychologically by this fact, affecting their health.
On the other hand, the affected party had to request vacation days from his job to
carry out the relevant banking procedures. Secondarily, but no less
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

5/88

importantly, the affected party has been held incommunicado indefinitely and without
be able to unsubscribe said line, when the authors of such act modify their data
bill. (…)”

Along with the claim, it provides the complaint filed with Post P. de Rincón de
la Victoria, of the Malaga Civil Guard Command, on August 24
of 2019, with report number *** COMPLAINT.1, in which it states

“(…) STATES that he is the holder of a bank account in the entity Banco
Santander with account number ***ACCOUNT.4, in which it appears as persons
authorized the father of the complainant D. E.E.E., his mother Dª F.F.F. and the brother
of the complainant D.G.G.G..
That on August 23, 2019, at approximately 10:45 p.m., the complainant
accesses the Banco Santander account inquiry application, and
you can check how the amount of 30,000-- euros has been withdrawn from the account,
who immediately makes a phone call to his parents to find out the reason
of said withdrawal, and that his parents inform him that they have not made any
movement of that amount.
That he immediately makes a call to the bank, to the telephone number
900.811.381, in which the operator informs him that if he had accepted any
email of the Santander bank entity, being informed the operator
by the complainant, that he has not accepted any email and that he has not
provided any data to any person, nor has it lost any type of
documentation.
That in this call the access to multichannel was blocked, and by application to the
bank account, as well as digital signatures.
That the complainant is informed by the operator of the entity that his parents
they should cancel, the bank account, as well as cards of said entity,
procedures that his father carried out on August 24, 2019 around 00:30 hours, since
that although the owner is the complainant, he was very nervous to
carry out this type of procedure, due to having doubts that he may have been the victim of a
Crime of fraud.
That the complainant receives a call on his mobile terminal with a number
***TELEFONO.4, which operates with the company SYMIO, with a hidden number and
privately, around 1:35 p.m. approximately, in which a
male interlocutor, several questions without being related to the
complainant, such as providing their ID, date of birth, etc., that the interlocutor
he had a Spanish accent, apparently from the north of Spain.
That the complainant receives a second call with a hidden and private number in the
aforementioned terminal, at 4:12 p.m., on August 23, 2019, in which the
male interlocutor, says: Hello, I'm calling you from SIMYO, (offering you an offer of
data and calls), asking the complainant for their date of birth, providing
the interlocutor his date, the interlocutor informing the complainant that if he wanted
verify the offer by calling the number 1644, the customer service number of the
SIMYO company.
That the complainant makes a call to 1644 to verify the veracity of the
offer and is informed that the company has not offered him anything.
That the complainant sends an email to the aforementioned company to notify
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

6/88

from what has occured.
That the complainant checks how his mobile terminal is left without coverage,
contacting the SIMYO company again to find out the reason for this
incidence, being informed by the company, that it did not have coverage due to issues of
security, and that on Monday the problem would be resolved.
That through the personal area (...), you can see a message, at 04:57 hours
day 08-24-2019, in which it is stated that there has been a duplicate of the card
SIM, which occurred at 5:48 p.m. on 08-23-2019, being of special
interest since this duplication takes place approximately one hour, that the
complainant inform the company of the calls received with a hidden number
and private.
ASKED to say or provide the data available from the extraction
of the amount of 30,000 euros.
STATES that it has occurred through bank transfer, which has not
been authorized by the complainant, nor has it proceeded to enter codes of
confirmation, nor make the electronic signature, not knowing how it has been possible
produce said transfer, that the account where the money has been transferred is the
next ***ACCOUNT.5 where Hhh (sic) appears as beneficiary, you cannot
provide an extract of the movement, because the entity is closed due to being a weekend,
and not being able to access your checking account through the entity's application
for having the mobile phone blocked.
That the amount transferred is 30,000 euros. (…)”

Likewise, it provides the message dated August 23, 2019, in which SIMYO informs
who has already delivered the duplicate SIM, as well as the email that the party claims-
you two addressed to support@simyo.es, on that same date, informing about the reception
of a call with a hidden number pretending to be SIMYO.
On January 9, 2020, the claim was transferred to SIMYO, so that
proceed to its analysis and respond within a month.
In response to said request, SIMYO stated -among other arguments- the following:
following:

“(…) On August 23, 2019, it is identified (…), corresponding to the
request for a duplicate SIM card corresponding to the numbering
***TELEPHONE.4 from (…).
(…)”.
Taking into account the foregoing, it has been confirmed that (…).
As has been verified, after identifying repeated attempts to obtain
access to the claimant's personal area, this company proceeded to (...) Mr.
C.C.C.. It is worth noting that, as has been shown throughout the
present, as soon as this merchant became aware of the indications that
They warned of an irregular treatment of the data of Mr. C.C.C. on the occasion of
duplicate of the SIM card numbering ***TELEFONO.4, proceeded (...).
After the above, in the month of October 2019, it was received in the systems of this
mercantile official claim in relation to the facts warned and that bring cause
of this requirement. After a study of the case, and out of commercial deference,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/88

this mercantile (...).
Given the foregoing, being SIMYO (...), this company focuses all its
efforts in the constant implementation of security measures and
authentication, which allow guaranteeing the true and secure identification of the holder in
In order to combat this type of fraudulent process, as we will explain later
ahead.
Due to the above, Orange has proceeded to send it through a communication
sent by burofax, a copy of which we attach to this letter as
attached document No. 1, through which we have proceeded to inform the
claimant of the measures carried out by this company on the occasion of the
this request, as well as the actions described in this report.
(...) It should be noted that there is a (...) in relation to an alleged SIM duplicate
not consented to any of its brands.
Well, in saying (...). We provide the procedure as attached document No. 2.
For its part, SIMYO has eliminated the possibility of (...), in such a way that, from
that date, it is no longer possible to purchase the SIM card in a (...). Similarly,
The measure of (...) has also been adopted.
On the other hand, and bearing in mind that currently so much (...), SIMYO has
implemented, on August 26, 2019, various additional measures in the
performance of certain acts, with the aim of guaranteeing the identity of the
client in order to avoid the repetition of situations similar to the one we
occupies.
Likewise, it is of interest to show the Agency to which we have the honor to
we direct, there is a (...) to achieve technological developments and improvements
necessary for the requests of (...).
This new technology would allow, (...)”.

On said claim fell resolution of ADMISSION TO PROCESS dated 13 of
November 2020, in the file with no. of reference E/00220/2020.
THIRD
 : On November 27, 2019, the director of the AEPD, before the
 
news appeared in the media regarding the use of practices
fraudulent based on the generation of duplicate SIM cards without the
consent of their legitimate owners in order to access information
confidential for criminal purposes (known as "SIM Swapping"), urges the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection (hereinafter, SGID) to be initiated ex officio
the Previous Actions of Investigation tending to analyze these practices and the
existing security measures for its prevention.
Namely:
The Duplicate SIM Scam: If Your Phone Does Weird Things, Check Your Bank Account
| Economy | THE COUNTRY (elpais.com)
https://elpais.com/economia/2019/05/21/actualidad/1558455806_935422.html
The dangerous fashion scam: Duplicate your mobile number to empty your account
bank | Technology (elmundo.es)
https://www.elmundo.es/tecnologia/2020/10/15/5f8700b321efa0c9118b462c.html

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/88

FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced by claimants one and two,
of the documents provided and the Internal Note agreed by the director of the
Agency, the SGID proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions
for the clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
authorization granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
them and the free circulation of these data and by which Directive 95/46/EC is repealed
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance
with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD.
Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, three requirements were made:
Information requests addressed to SIMYO, on different dates:

Secure Verification Code Requirement

First

Second

Third

***CSV.1
***CSV.2
***CSV.3

Required date
I lie

Notification date-
tion required
I lie

01/13/2020

06/24/2020

09/16/2020

01/13/2020

06/25/2020

09/17/2020

In the first of the requirements, dated January 13, 2020, the
Next information:

1. Information on the channels available to customers to request a duplicate
SIM card crash. (Telephone, Internet, shops, etc.).
2. For each of the routes available, detailed information is requested
of the procedure established for the attention of the requests, including the
controls for the verification of the identity of the applicant including the data and
documents required from the applicant, as well as the details of the verifications
tions that are made on them. In case of shipment of SIM card by co-
mail, detail of the controls and requirements established on the direction of delivery
he saw.
3. Instructions given in this regard to the staff that attends the requests for
their attention. Documentation proving its dissemination among the companies
employees dedicated to said tasks, internal or external to the entity.
4. Information on whether the performance of the controls to verify the
identity is reflected, for each request attended, in the Information System
mation of the entity. Documentation that accredits it in your case, such as
screen pressure of the buttons (check-box) or other documentation according to the
method used.
5. Reasons why it has been possible in some cases to supplant the
identity of clients for the issuance of SIM duplicates. Reasons why
The implemented security measures and controls have not had an effect.
6. Actions taken by the entity when one of these cases is detected.
Information on the existence of a written procedure and a copy of it in
affirmative case. Actions taken to prevent cases of this type from occurring

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/88

produce again, specifically, changes that may have been made on the
procedure to improve security.
7. Number of cases of fraudulent duplicate SIM requests detected
two throughout the year 2019.
Total number of mobile telephony clients of the entity.

In the second of the requirements, dated June 24, 2020, the
Next information:

POINT 1
Clarification is requested on the following aspects in relation to the answer-
tion of our request dated January 16, 2020, within the framework of
this same file:
A). A copy of the security policies is requested (SIM request and activation of
SIM), where the data requested according to the different
cases, including all assumptions.
A copy of the specific instructions given to the operators for this is requested
with detailed information on the data that must be requested in each case.
B). Information on the controls established to process the change of address
e-mail address of a user.
Implications of an email address change on activation
of a new duplicate SIM. Way in which the alleged supplanters
have been able to activate a new SIM by previously changing this user data.
C) In home deliveries, information is requested on whether it is possible to change the
SIM delivery address and under what circumstances and controls.
D). In the table of controls provided it is mentioned, in the cases of companies of
messaging: "Delivery without validation of Identity Document".
The verifications that are carried out in the home delivery of the card are requested.
ta SIM for recipient identification. Copy of contracted documentation
with the courier companies that carry out the distribution, where the
identity checks to be carried out by the delivery person.
POINT 2
List of 20 cases of SIM duplicates claimed as impersonation of
identity or fraudulent by customers. The list will include SIM duplicates
requested since January 1, 2020, that is, all those claimed that
yielded from January 1, from the first, consecutive until reaching
twenty.
It is requested to indicate in the list only:
- the date of the SIM change,
- the line number,
- request channel,
- delivery channel.
POINT 3

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/88

On cases presented before this Agency that are summarized in the table: (which is
fully reproduced in this act of procedure):
It is requested:
A) In both cases, it appears that the request was made at a point of sale (the
made before 08/26/2019).
The reason why the SIM duplication was possible in these previous cases is requested.
essential. Documentary accreditation of the controls that were passed on the
identity of the applicant in stores.
B) In both cases the email address was previously changed
to the request.
Information is requested on how the email addresses of the clients changed
and documentary accreditation of the controls that were passed for the identification
of the client in each case.
C) Channels through which activation occurred. Documentary accreditation of the
controls that were passed on the identity at activation, in each case.
D) In case E/00220/2020, the client mentions that he alerted the entity
prior to the alleged identity theft of a possible attempt to use fraudulent
dulent of your data.
Information is requested on the reason why it was not marked or taken into account
such information to prevent identity theft to issue duplicates
of SIM.
E) Actions undertaken by the entity in each case, including accreditation
documentation of the following aspects:
- If you have been marked as a victim of customer fraud to prevent possible attempts
of future identity theft.
- If internal investigations have been carried out to clarify the facts with the
point of sale.
-If changes have been made in the procedure to avoid similar future cases
lares.
- If the client has been contacted to alert him of what happened and about the resolution
resolution of your case.

In the third and last of the requirements, dated September 16, 2020,
requested the following information:

POINT 1
Regarding the list of 2 cases of SIM duplicates denounced/claimed facilitated
mentioned in the previous answer:
It is requested, in the first case, in relation to the duplicate SIM that was reached
change:
A. Copy of the DNI or identification documents provided by the applicant in the
point of sale.
B. About activation by the Call Center:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/88

- copy of the recording of the conversation where the applicant exceeds the policy
of security.
It is requested, for the change attempts requested in both cases:
C. Detailed information on how canceled and circulated attempts were detected.
circumstances for which they were classified as fraud or unrealizable. Policies or
controls that did not pass such requests.
D. Information on the reasons why a change of
SIM in the first case, having been 2 previous attempts. information about whether
first fraud attempts were classified and controls put in place to
ensure possible successive attempts.

FIFTH: On January 28 and July 1, 2020, SIMYO requests the extension of the
legal term conferred to answer said requirements.
On January 31 and July 15, 2020, the Deputy Director General of Inspection of
Data agrees to extend the deadline for a period of five days.
SIXTH: In response to the three requests made, SIMYO provided the following
information that was analyzed by this Agency:

1.- Information on the routes available to customers:
(…)
2.- Detailed information on the procedure:
(…)
SIMYO representatives have stated that:

(…)
The security policy explicitly consists of:
(…)
C) Information has been requested on whether it is possible to change the shipping address
SIM delivery and under what circumstances and controls.
In the aforementioned document “(…)” it is established that:
(…)
On the change of the client's address in the entity's systems, the re-
SIMYO representatives have stated that currently there are only two
possibilities:
(…)
It is stated in the document that:
(…)
D) About the checks that are carried out in the home delivery of the tar-
SIM card for recipient identification.
(…)
On the number of cases of fraudulent requests for SIM duplicates de-
detected throughout the year 2019, the entity has stated:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/88

In relation to the ORANGE group, that: “The number of cases detected during
in 2019 it amounted to ***NUMBER.1 assumptions. This figure, compared to the number
total customers in 2019 (16,312,653), represents a ***NUMBER.2%.
Approximately ***NUMBER.3 SIM changes are made annually.
The cases of fraud detected, currently and despite the efforts made
two, represent a ***NUMBER.4% of the total SIM card changes made.
zeds.”

Regarding the cases presented to the agency:

CLAIMANT PARTY ONE:

- SIM change request: (...)
A copy of the DNI or identification documentation has been required, as well as the rest
of associated documentation, provided by the applicant in (...). It is not provided.
(Note that it is done before 08/26/2019 when SIMYO changes its (...)).
The representatives of the entity indicate that the impersonators acquired the
SIM cards in (...) which shows that said (...) must have provided them (...).
Indicate that (…). It is currently disabled.
SIMYO's representatives state that (...). They point out that they
knew certain identifying data of the client.
- Damages: Fraudulent banking operations are reported using the
SIM copy.
- Actions taken. The representatives of the entity indicate that:

o SIMYO has strengthened its Security Policy by reinforcing the Protocols
existing ones (...) such as, for example, (...), which, as we have said,
is currently disabled.

either (…)

They also indicate that operational changes have been made so that these following
situations do not take place again in the future, among which we can mention the
following:
(…)

CLAIMANT PARTY TWO:

- SIM change request: (...).
A copy of the DNI or identification documentation has been required, as well as the rest
of associated documentation, provided by the applicant at the point of sale.
It is not provided. (Note that it is done before 08/26/2019 when SIMYO changed
bia his (...)).
The representatives of the entity indicate that the impersonators acquired the
SIM cards in (...) which shows that said (...) must have provided them (...).
They indicate that (...), because at that time, this functionality still existed in
the same. It is currently disabled.
The representatives of the entity have stated that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/88

(…)

- Damages: Fraudulent banking operations are reported using the
SIM copy.
- Controls: Since the client mentions that he alerted the entity, so
prior to the alleged identity theft, of a possible attempt to use
fraudulent use of your data, SIMYO has been asked for information about and the
reason why such information was not marked or taken into account for
prevent identity theft to issue duplicate SIMs.
SIMYO's representatives have stated in this regard that the facts
are summarized as follows:

(…)

- Actions taken: They provide the same allegations as in the case of
the complaining party one.

On other cases not filed with the agency:

The representatives of the entity have stated in this regard that only
nest knowledge of ***NUMBER.5:

(…)
Specifically, the complete process of the case was as follows:
On 03/26/2020 an attempt is made (…)
On 03/27/2020 they meet (...)
On 03/28/2020 an attempt is made (...)
On 03/28/2020 the SIM activation of the 26th is attempted (...)
On 04/01/2020 it is purchased (...). Activation of this occurred.
They provide a copy of the recording where the security policy is exceeded if
well indicate that this security policy has been strengthened since then.
stop
Listening to the recording, the operator requests (...)
SIMYO indicate that it has modified the established procedure, demanding
that (…)
In this case, therefore, (...)
The representatives of the entity state that it was possible to avoid duplication
of the SIM (...)

SEVENTH: On February 3, 2021, commercial information is obtained on the
SIMYO's sales volume during the year 2019, being the results of
123,577,000.00 euros. The share capital amounts to 9,535,587.00 euros.

EIGHTH: On February 11, 2021, the director of the AEPD agrees to initiate a
sanctioning procedure against SIMYO, in accordance with the provisions of articles
63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for alleged infringement of the
article 5.1.f) and 5.2 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and in article
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/88

72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, and may be sanctioned with an administrative fine of
100,000.00 euros (one hundred thousand euros), without prejudice to what may result from the instruction.
NINTH: On February 12, 2021, the AEPD, in compliance with the provisions
in article 77.2 of the RGPD communicates to the complaining parties one and two, the in-
coercion of sanctioning file PS/00046/2021.
TENTH: The Initiation Agreement is notified to SIMYO, on February 15,
2021, through Citizen Folder, according to confirmation of receipt that appears
on the record.
ELEVEN On February 16, 2021, SIMYO files a document through the
which requests the extension of the term to submit allegations and provide documents or
other judgment elements.
TWELFTH: On February 18, 2021, the examining body agrees to the am-
requested extension of the term up to a maximum of five days, in accordance with the provisions
in article 32.1 of the LPACAP.
The Extension Agreement is notified on February 22, 2021.
THIRTEENTH: On March 8, 2021, this Agency receives, in
time and form, written by the representative of SIMYO in which he alleges and
After expressing what is appropriate to his right, he ends up requesting the file of the proceeding.
proceeding and subsidiarily, that the AEPD consider the mitigating circumstances
substantiated and end the procedure by means of a warning and with the imposition
sation of the obligations to implement suitable corrective measures. In last ins-
If you consider that the imposition of a sanction is appropriate, moderate or modulate the
proposed penalty.
In summary, he argues that:

PREVIOUS.- EXISTENCE OF A WORKING GROUP ON DUPLICATION
OF SIM CARDS LEADED BY THE AEPD.
He argues that the sanctioning procedure has taken place in parallel to the construction
establishment and development of the “Working Group led by the AEPD on Duplication
ity of SIM Cards” in which ORANGE has been participating (in re-
presentation of all the entities of the ORANGE Group, among which are
account SIMYO).
This Working Group (GT) held its first meeting in January 2020 and
born promoted by the AEPD in order to share experiences and analyze the
measures that are being adopted by both sectors (Banking and Telecommunications)
tions) with the aim of minimizing the risks that this new fashion entails.
ity of fraud.
The fact that within the GT the AEPD requires the Group
ORANGE to share all the information regarding the processes and multiple
ple preventive and reactive controls for the prevention and management of this type
of fraud, as well as the sharing of a huge amount of information related to
the problems and difficulties encountered by telecommunications operators
cations to control this type of fraud, should lead us to think
that said sharing of information is carried out within the most absolute and strict
strict framework of trust and full confidentiality.
Furthermore, public-private collaborations contribute to the Admi-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/88

de nistration the essential advantage that companies specializing in de-
finished services, provide knowledge and the best solutions in
issues that are of interest to consumers and citizens.
The ORANGE Group has participated and participates today in workshops
with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation and with the Mi-
Ministry of the Interior.
During 2020, the collaboration with the Security Forces and Bodies
of the State (FCSE) for the prevention or investigation of criminal offences, has
post more than 40,308 requests attended and derived from the Courts;
45,552 requests attended to and derived from the Judicial Police and 50,056 inter-
Telephone conventions carried out (between registrations, cancellations and cessations).
In addition, the company's outstanding collaboration performance has meant
the decoration of the staff assigned to these actions with the Cross to the doctor
Civil rite with white badge, of the National Police and Civil Guard.
Additionally, he has actively participated in the report of the presentation of es-
studies on the risks arising from the use of the network by minors
in the Senate. Likewise, the ORANGE Group has participated in the signing of a
High Level Protocol.
For its part, the AEPD has considered that this is the ideal time to propose
have millionaire sanctions to the same entities with which it is sitting
to agree on common measures, an unprecedented and surprising precedent.
The appropriate thing to do would be to wait until conclusions are reached on the measures to be taken.
adopt and, once known and put in common, and given an adequate term
to achieve its implementation, it is then, when the operators can be required
regulators that certify its compliance and in case of not having done so, it is
then when sanctions are proposed.
The WG meetings have suffered delays due to the CO-pandemic
VID 19, which has harmed the analysis of the problems associated with these
crimes and, consequently, the proposal and implementation of improvements.
In view of the facts, it seems that the agency has no intention of
mission to comply with the minimum principles of institutional loyalty
that are presumed in any relationship of public-private collaboration, as
at the same time that it is requesting collaboration, information and participation
active and effective participation in the GT, initiates a sanctioning procedure that deals
on the matter dealt with, proposing million-dollar sanctions to all members
industry players who, in good faith, participate in this.
It crosses the most elementary limits of the institutional loyalty that is presumed to
a public body in this collaborative framework.
The opening of this procedure and others like it makes it extremely difficult to
existence of a framework of trust between the ORANGE Group and the AEPD, and if
they allow it to us, of all the sector of the telecommunications to national level.
For all these reasons, SIMYO wants to record that this way of proceeding affects
seriously violates the principle of trust that the ORANGE Group presumed to be able to
deposit in the AEPD and poses a risk to the objectives of the GT, which will be ob-
subject of internal and probably sectoral analysis regarding the collaborative framework

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/88

with Administrative Authorities that pursue this common good of the citizens.
give us with action plans and joint collaboration.
FIRST.- INCORRECTION AND LACK OF ACCURACY IN THE ASSESSMENTS-
TIONS ON SIM CARD DUPLICATE FRAUD.
The description made by the AEPD contains various statements
inaccurate and technical errors that lead to an inappropriate interpretation
of the facts and their legal consequences.
SIM cards do not serve “to identify the subscriber before the telephone network
mobile”, but rather identify a telephone number, without including any information
tion that allows third parties, other than the telecommunication operator itself,
nes with which you have contracted the service, identify the subscriber.
The fact that the subsequent use of the duplicate SIM is aimed at the co-
mission of other crimes -carrying out fraudulent banking operations-,
under no circumstances can be considered within the scope of responsibility
of SIMYO. By itself, this act is not enough to carry out operations
bank accounts on behalf of the initial SIM card holders, but has
of an additional and independent criminal activity to the previous one.
The use by banking entities of a double factor system of
authentication that implies the sending by SMS of the ratification keys for the
carrying out certain operations is an operation on which SIMYO
He has no decision-making power.
There is no causal link between identity theft for the
issuing a duplicate of the card and carrying out banking operations
fraudulent or other types of identity theft operations in another
types of online platforms.
This possibility would only occur when the means established to guarantee the
security corresponds to sending an SMS, since the double factor of
security does not necessarily have to be configured in this way, being
This is an option whose choice is up to the bank and/or the user co-
responding.
These facts are perfectly known by the AEPD, which even has
published on its website a publication called "Identification in services of
online payment”.
This fact is more evident if we take into account that the same effect could
also occur without the need for identity theft before an operation
gilds This would be the case in which a subscriber decides to cancel his number
of telephone and this later was object of a portability. If the user
does not adopt due diligence to update its information in the face of differences
three entities to which you have provided your telephone number
as a means of authentication, it would enable the third party that received that number
number could receive the confirmation messages issued by said entities.
des The same effect could occur in the case of theft of a terminal that the user
had not adequately protected (allowing access to its content without
need to use passwords, fingerprints or other security measures).
However, SIMYO is not immune to the problems arising from the potential use
of duplicate cards for illicit purposes. It is for this reason that it has implemented

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/88

ted reinforced security mechanisms in relation to the conditions for
your request. These measures have been increased to the extent that
protects any weaknesses or possible improvements to ensure the security of the pro-
cease.
Furthermore, SIMYO is fully involved as it is part of the WG. action-
tions such as changing the SIM leave a record on the network and it is precisely these
records used by SIMYO to help banking entities in
prevention of this type of fraud.
SECOND. – UNFOUNDED GENERALIZATION OF NECESSARY CONSEQUENCES
GATIVES ASSOCIATED WITH THE ISSUANCE OF THE DUPLICATE OF THE CARD
SIM.
Many of the statements contained in the arguments put forward by the
AEPD are inaccurate or erroneous.
It is not true that "by getting a duplicate SIM card, the impersonators
they will automatically have access to the contacts and will be able to access all
applications and services that have as recovery procedure of
key sending an SMS with a code to be able to change passwords
(…)”.
It should be noted that these can be stored "physically" on the cards
SIM, so this information would not be in the duplicates that can be issued.
disposed of, but would remain only in the original SIM, under the control of your
owner, unless the user has chosen to store them in environments associated with
Android or Apple, in which case the operator does not have the capacity to act either.
tion.
Regarding the possibility of accessing email, bank and
others mentioned, it is obvious that the duplication of the card does not allow, by itself, the
access to them, but it is necessary, at least, to know the identifier
of the user to be able to access any of the accounts.
Furthermore, it should be noted that when the impersonator addresses
SIMYO already has a lot of information to request a duplicate card.
information regarding the interested party, which is necessary for the management of the request of the
duplicate. Therefore, obtaining this information, presumably
illicit mind, is the responsibility of third parties or of the owner of the data,
existing in many cases an imprudent behavior of the latter
in the custody of your personal information.
SIMYO's responsibility cannot extend beyond those matters
tions that fall under its scope of action.
With regard to the possible violation of security principles,
data confidentiality and proactive responsibility, although it is true that
there is an incident related to information security, it has not been
produced in purity an access to personal data of the clients as con-
sequence of this
Therefore, although data is processed during the duplicate request process
personal, this does not imply that there is an illicit treatment derived from the lack
SIMYO diligence, but rather, performs these operations by requesting data from
who is supposed to be its owner and to carry out verifications, not having

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/88

provided any type of personal information that was not initially held by the
bidder.
In this regard, it should be noted that the personal data processed in a
illegally are not obtained from SIMYO, but rather the impersonators obtain them pre-
directly from other sources (the interested party or third parties responsible for di-
lots of data). Even, as stated in the file, the crime of impersonation goes
accompanied by falsifications of public documents, such as copies of DNI or
alleged complaints filed with the police, which are provided as a means
to overcome SIMYO's control measures. It appears in file E/
220/2020, that calls are made in which impersonators pretend to be
sar by SIMYO, providing the client with information about his ID, which in any way
form, the impersonator would not have been able to obtain.
He argues that there is no evidence whatsoever that customer information is not
has been adequately protected.
There is no specific regulation that establishes the obligations in relation to
tion with this operation, and the only one that could be considered as a reference,
for having certain similarities in terms of the matter, is Circular 1/2009, of 16
April 2009, of the Telecommunications Market Commission.
Nor has it been proven, nor does it appear in the complaints, any reference
to criminals having managed to obtain personal data from SIMYO,
Therefore, there can be no question of non-compliance with measures to protect
Personal information.
The AEPD, and in very recent procedures, had not been considering that
If there is a breach of security measures in relation to the sub-
positions in which identity theft occurred in exact cases.
identical mind. Thus, we can cite, for example: E-04919, PS-00144-2019,
PS-00235-2020, PS-00348-2020, E-01178-2020.
Of the different sanctioning procedures and file resolutions mentioned
mentioned and whose facts deal with fraudulent actions due to su-
plantations of identity with SIM cards, in none of them is observed
that there is a qualification by this control authority as an in-
fraction of the security obligations required in article 32 of the RGPD.
It invokes article 54 of Law 30/1992, which said: they must be motivated
(...) the acts "that deviate from the criteria followed in previous actions"
and the SAN of May 13, 2005 and May 7, 2007 (rec: 86/2005). Namely,
that in the event of the same factual assumptions, the application of different solutions
must be justified "with a brief reference to facts and legal grounds"
of the reason for such disparity in order not to undermine the principle of security
legal.
On the other hand, the mention made by the AEPD alluding to the fact that it “appreciates possi-
possible vulnerabilities” in the SIMYO Security Policy “during the phase of
validation of the identity of the applicants of the SIM duplicates”, does not justify
does not in any way qualify the facts.
In this sense, the rationale provided is limited to referring to po-
possible vulnerabilities, which in no case are identified, much less
exposes why they can be qualified as insufficient or inappropriate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/88

quads.
It is also noteworthy, nor is it justified by the AEPD in what
how the privacy of users is affected as a result of the specifics
these actions carried out by SIMYO, but is held responsible
of the effects derived from other actions that do imply a non-au-
to the personal data of those affected, victims of assumptions of
phishing or similar, which do allow access to protected personal information.
given by other data controllers.
THIRD.- SUITABILITY AND COMPLIANCE WITH PREVENTIVE MEASURES
YOU ARE IMPLEMENTED BY SIMYO.
SIMYO has carried out a detailed study of its activities in the treatment of
personal data carried out and has adopted the pertinent measures to
that they are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.
Regarding the safety of the process, it has provided evidence of the existence
ence of specific protocols, appropriate to the identified risks.
It has organizational measures that have been communicated to all personnel.
party involved in the processing of personal data.
It is important to indicate that the organizational security measures are supported
ted by an Information Security Policy and a governance model
responsible for implementing and operating security, measuring the
control maturity levels and manage risks. The ORANGE Group
maintains and certifies Information Security Management Systems based on
two in ISO27001 and National Security Scheme.
The existing protocols have been communicated to all those involved.
The operations defined have taken into account the risks associated with carrying out
of this type of management and the parameters for its execution have been set
in the knowledge of the people involved in its processing. The number of
cases is negligible compared to the total number of operations carried out.
Although the means and controls have been increasing to guarantee strict
compliance with the established protocol, it is not possible to eradicate the possibility
of its contravention by users, since, ultimately, it depends
fair action by the person processing the application, which is
aware of the instructions to be followed in each case.
The intended solution proposed by the AEPD consisting of automation
total of the controls, although hypothetically it could allow a better control
of the procedures, would have an exorbitant cost.
The AEPD does not justify in any way the proportionality of the proposed measure.
nor that it was the ideal one taking into account the state of the art.
uniqueness, the costs of application, and the nature, scope, context and purposes
of the treatment.
The measure also means ignoring the reality of the actions of users
responsible for carrying out these procedures, which in practice comply with all
quality of the cases with the indications received from SIMYO. Equal-
mind, it also does not take into account the small number of cases in which
a contingency has occurred associated with the request for a duplicate card-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/88

ta, which specifically represents ***NUMBER.6% of cases.
On the other hand, simply pretending that a measure be implemented that automatically
mind cancel a risk is an overly simplistic analysis, which has no
taking into account the context in which the events occur or the complexity of the
management of situations in which a subscriber requires this type of service.
QUARTER. - SIMYO'S DILIGENT PERFORMANCE.
SIMYO has not implemented "static security measures", rather, it has
proceeded systematically to implement improvements in the measures adopted
as soon as it has become aware of the existence of any vulnerability.
Regarding the content of recital 75 of the RGPD that the AEPD brings to
collation, it must be reiterated that the personal data of the victims are usurped
two prior to criminals approaching SIMYO and that, precisely,
mind as a consequence of having access to personal information that only
should be in the possession of the interested party, allow the impersonation to materialize
of identity.
This circumstance in no way precludes the fact that SIMYO has complied with
its obligations, in accordance with the provisions of recital 83 of the RGPD to
referred to by the AEPD.
There can be no talk of negligence in any case, since the circumstances
concrete in which the events occur, in which criminals under the
appearance of victims of a robbery and using tricks and fraudulent documentation
dulent with real appearance manage to deceive the person who is requested
the duplicate. The possibilities of verifying the documentation provided
are in practice very limited. So this is deception enough,
for having this "appearance of reality and sufficient seriousness to deceive
persons of average perspicacity and diligence” (thus considered, among other
many, in STS 2362/2020).
Occasionally certain partial breaches of the protocols occur
provided by SIMYO, which in certain cases contribute to the achievement
tion of the end pursued by the fraudsters.
However, this does not allow us to conclude that these facts show "the
a series of vulnerabilities in the security measures implemented and, therefore,
Therefore, the responsibility of SIMYO is inferred as responsible for the treatment
in terms of negligence, lack of supervision and control”.
On the contrary, the measures implemented are adequate to mitigate, in a
majority, the risks related to this type of fraud. In practice, such
and as reported, the efficiency of these measures is close to 100% of the
cases.
It must be remembered that there are combined safety factors that make it difficult
the target of fraudsters. In this sense, the protocols include
the different measures adopted depending on the means by which the request is made.
duplicated and in the subsequent phase of delivery and activation of the SIM.
Only in exceptional cases in which the means used for the determination
develop the scams are especially sophisticated, combined in some su-
position with specific omissions of some of the requirements established by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/88

SIMYO by those involved in the processing of applications, has been
produced the impersonation result.
In this sense, Circular 1/2016 of the Tax Office can be used as a reference.
General State Office, regarding the criminal Compliance protocols in which
it is argued that “crime does not necessarily invalidate the prevention program.
tion, which may have been properly designed and implemented without reaching
gar to have an absolute efficiency".
According to SIMYO, it has been proven that:
- It has established adequate protocols for the prevention of impersonations
of identity in the process of requesting duplicate cards.
- It has duly communicated the content of these protocols and the obligations
corresponding to the people involved in the processing of these applications.
applications.
- Has made improvements to processes when aware of vulnerabilities
vulnerabilities, such as reinforcements in the guarantees and limitation of channels
for the request or inclusion of new, more effective control methods (such as
the SIM Swap system launched in October 2020).
- Has acted as diligently as possible, promptly, efficiently
and executive, in the cases in which there has been knowledge of any
cho related to identity theft.
- It has systems to verify compliance with its obligations
by the people involved in carrying out the application processes.
number of duplicate cards.
Furthermore, it is reported that recently the complaints filed
sit-ins for this type of crime are beginning to yield results
relevant in the form of arrests.
Consequently, SIMYO's activity cannot be classified as negligent.
people, nor has there been a lack of supervision or control.
It invokes the STS 1232/2018 of July 18, 2018. Thus, in accordance with the criterion
of the Supreme Court, SIMYO could not be held liable even if his company
employee or collaborator had been negligent in his action, since it was required
would laugh "culpable or malicious actions" on his part, which under no circumstances
it has been produced.
Similarly, the TSJ of Madrid in its Judgment 568/2020 of 10 Sep. 2020
establishes: "There will have to be, therefore, fraudulent or negligent conduct, whether
gross or slight or simple negligence. And there is no negligence, nor therefore infringement.
tion, "when the necessary diligence has been exercised in complying with the
tax obligations" (article 179.2.d) of the LGT 58/2003)".
In view of the foregoing, it considers that the jurisprudence analyzed supports the
SIMYO's behavior, having established an ele-
prepared taking into account the existing risks, which was made available
of all those involved and that, if they had been followed, no action would have been taken.
assigned to the delivery of the illicit copy of the card.
In addition, with regard to the in vigilando responsibility of the company, it is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/88

unquestionable that can only be blamed when it comes to performance
guilty or intentional actions, not negligent as the act has been identified.
tion of SIMYO by the AEPD itself.
FIFTH. – LACK OF PROPORTIONALITY OF THE PROPOSED PENALTY.
There has been no breach of data protection regulations,
since SIMYO has taken all the necessary technical and organizational measures.
rias to avoid fraud in the request for duplicate SIM cards.
The proposed sanction is in any case disproportionate, taking into account the circumstances
Cunstances and content of the alleged infractions.
As for the number of existing cases that the Agency considers to be welcome,
vant, there are three of them and they have an excellent capacity for reaction, as well as
preventive and corrective measures.
Regarding the level of damages and losses suffered, it is not feasible to try to
hold SIMYO accountable for situations related to the use of duplicates
of the card that derive from information security incidents with the
that SIMYO has no relation. Card duplication does not derive di-
correctly, nor necessarily, in fraudulent banking operations, since
the security measures and the accesses to which they have to carry out the
Banking operations are totally unrelated to SIM card duplication.
For all of the above, the alleged damages indicated by the AEPD
they could not be imputed to SIMYO nor, therefore, be considered an aggravating circumstance.
Neither can intentionality or negligence be interpreted in their actions. In
In any case, it must be considered diligent and act this fact as a mitigating factor.
of the sanction.
On the degree of responsibility: they have been detailed throughout the requirement.
of information the many measures adopted, as well as the improvements that have been
been introduced, including the impossibility of allowing address changes.
sending tion during a SIM change/duplicate request. Highlights the eli-
Elimination of the possibility of requesting duplicate SIM cards at Points
of Sale, dated August 23, 2019, as well as through the Personal Area
(eCare) or through the App. Likewise, it is interesting to highlight the Plan of
action in SIMYO to achieve the necessary technological developments and improvements
so that requests for change of postal address, email, between
other contact details, are verified by means of a certified SMS.
Categories of personal data affected by the breach: SIM card not
allows identity theft, but only serves to receive
tion of the confirmation keys of banking operations in certain
assumptions. This does not mean that the impersonator can operate on behalf of the
affected, unless the security measures of other entities have been bypassed.
data, such as those of the bank.
On the other hand, with respect to mitigating factors, although it includes the existence of
palliative measures, it omits any preventive measures implemented by SIMYO.
All this means that the attenuation must be higher. Likewise, it is considered
the lack of economic benefit obtained by SIMYO. However, it has
to highlight that SIMYO is one more victim of the criminal network carried out

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/88

by the supplanters.
In this sense, taking into account the concurrent circumstances and the null
SIMYO's guilt, in the event that it is considered that there is some kind of
infraction, the proposed economic sanction included in the Initiation Agreement
should be replaced by the adoption of corrective measures (article 58
RGPD), consisting of the warning or warning to the person in charge and the im-
position of the obligation to adopt measures to carry out the treatments
cough “in a certain way and within a specified time”.

FOURTEENTH: On April 27, 2021, this Agency receives a written
of the representative of SIMYO by which he adduces additional arguments to the above
above and attach the following documentation:

OF A GENERAL NATURE:
- Document 1: (...)
- Document 2: (...)
- Document 3: (...)
- Document 4: (...)
OF A TECHNICAL CHARACTER
- Document 5: (...)
- Document 6: (…).

These allegations and the previous ones have already been answered in the Proposed Resolution.
tion and are reiterated, in part, in the Foundations of Law (hereinafter, FD) of this
Resolution.

FIFTEENTH: After the period of arguments granted in the Agreement of
initiation and presented allegations, on April 30, 2021, the instructor of the
procedure agrees to the opening of a period of practice of tests, notified to
SIMYO on May 4, 2021, in the following terms:

“The claims filed are deemed reproduced for evidentiary purposes.
rates by C.C.C. and A.A.A., their documentation, the documents obtained and generated
generated by the Inspection Services before ORANGE ESPAÑA VIRTUAL,
S.L., and the Report of previous inspection actions that are part of the
file E/11418/2019.
2. Likewise, they are considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations
to the initiation agreement PS/00046/2021 presented by ORANGE ESPAÑA
VIRTUAL, S.L, on March 8, 2021, through the General Registry
of this Agency, and the documentation that accompanies them:
 Document 1 (…)
3. Finally, they are considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations
“complementary” to the initiation agreement PS/00046/2021 presented by
ORANGE ESPAÑA VIRTUAL, S.L, on April 27, 2021, through the Re-
General Registry of this Agency, and the documentation that accompanies them.
na:
- Document 1: (...)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/88

- Document 2: (...)
- Document 3: (...)
- Document 4: (...)
- Document 5: (...)
- Document 6: (...)

SIXTEENTH: On October 7, 2021, the instructor of the procedure
formulates a Proposal for a Resolution, in which it proposes that the director of the AEPD
ORANGE ESPAÑA VIRTUAL, S.L., with NIF B85057974, is sanctioned for infraction
of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and in article
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, with an administrative fine of 70,000.00 (seventy thousand euros).
ros).

On October 14, 2021, through the Citizen Folder, the Pro-
Resolution setting.

SEVENTEENTH: On October 19, 2021, SIMYO requests the extension
of the term to formulate allegations to the Resolution Proposal.

EIGHTEENTH: On October 20, 2021, the Agency agrees on a
extension of the term to present allegations in one more business day, that is, until the day
October 29, 2021.

NINETEENTH: On October 29, 2021, SIMYO, makes allegations to
the Resolution Proposal in which the allegations are ratified and reproduced.
tions and legal arguments made to the Initiation Agreement (background DECI-
MO THIRD and FOURTEENTH) and also adds others:

FIRST: INFRINGEMENT.

It shows that in the Background and in the Proven Facts of the
The Agency's Resolution Proposal mixes and confuses the two assumptions
in fact of the two claims.

In the same line, both claimants are associated in the Background with the email
***EMAIL.1, when it is obvious that said email address only corresponds to one
of the two claimants.

These facts cause an obvious helplessness to SIMYO, who cannot discern
clearly define the account of the facts to impute an alleged infraction.

It is noteworthy that in the FD the commission by the
SIMYO of an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD based on the facts
for tested. This, before even trying to justify the reason. This pro-
yielding, even if only to formal effects, is legally inappropriate and
could be considered a certain predisposition of the AEPD to sanction it, regardless
pending the allegations that can be made in his defense, given that
no such violation has occurred.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/88

SECOND: TREATMENT OF PERSONAL DATA AND RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
TREATMENT.

A series of clarifications are required in relation to the fact that the duplication process
do of a SIM card involves the processing of personal data.

The information processed during the duplication process of a SIM card is the
identification formation of the holder of the line, not the technical information contained in
said card, with the exception of the MSISDN, since its content is none other than the
own phone number (preceded by the country code).

These and not others are the data object of treatment carried out by SIMYO in cal-
responsibility.

All this information was already known to criminals prior to requesting
cite the duplicate, after having previously obtained them illicitly through
social engineering techniques such as “phishing” or “spoofing”.

Therefore, the statement that "SIMYO is responsible for the
processing of data referred to in the exposed antecedents”, since in the same
We refer to other treatments that are not your responsibility.

There is no evidence that any information has been processed by clients that could be
tar contained in the SIM cards, such as the IMSI, much less information about
the phone list or the calls and messages list. Regarding the IMSI, there is no
No proof or indication that this data has been processed for any purpose.

Nor is the statement made by the AEPD that the SIM card
It is, in itself, a personal data. The card may contain personal information,
but it is not data and although this information could be considered as personal data,
to potentially make the owner of the line identifiable, the truth is that the
possibility of identification by third parties other than the operator required
additional information that is not available, so even in the event of qualification
consider them as personal data, they would be considered pseudonymised data.
do.

THIRD. ALLEGATIONS ADUCTED.

1. PREVIOUS ALLEGATION.- EXISTENCE OF A WG ON DUPLICATION OF
SIM CARDS LEADED BY THE AEPD.

The breach of legitimate expectations is not due to the statements that could
having carried out the Agency validating SIMYO's performance.
 
The undermining of this principle is due to the fact that the opening of the sanction
tionator is produced within the framework of a collaboration in which the
a specific GT to deal with a criminal activity (“SIM Swapping”), in
whose bosom integrates both the telecommunications operators and the
bank, as well as other Administrations and Authorities involved, created with
the intention of protecting those affected, and whose purpose is to analyze formally
combines threats and defense mechanisms, with the aim of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

26/88

clarify possible actions that help mitigate the risks of impersonation
of identity.
 
In this sense, although the participation of the AEPD in the GT does not imply the validation
of SIMYO's performance, it does show the recognition of the problem
existing matic and the difficulty posed by its prevention: it is a pro-
generalized and recurrent problematic, which affects multiple entities and opera-
telecommunications providers whose solution is highly complex and, although
has shown the joint will to put an end to these assumptions, eradicate
it is a difficult objective, given the ability of criminals to
to update their techniques and deploy increasingly sophisticated means.
fallen to achieve their goals.
 
In this context, it does not seem logical to require operators, and specifically SI-
MYO, the deployment of a diligence of absolute efficiency.
 
However, it is within this framework that the AEPD decides to open an
tooth, using as a pretext the existence of certain news in
press when you have first-hand knowledge, by the operators
ras, of the existence and characteristics of these crimes.
 
Moreover, said information was made known to you in the confidence that
All entities present will use the information in good faith and not to
purposes other than those for which the WG was created.
 
The Agency uses this knowledge to employ it with the objective of sanctioning
trying to hold them accountable for the crimes of which they are victims, the
who is far from loyal and who obviously breaks the trust in
an Authority that prefers to take the sanctioning route before entities that,
you know conclusively, they are working proactively to improve
of security.
 
On the other hand, it is obvious that the AEPD is bound by the principle of legality.
but it is not true, as it pretends, that it is this principle that calls it to
sanction. The regulations provide for alternative mechanisms for situations in
which the objective should be to improve the security of the operations of
treatment performed.
 
The function of the AEPD is, in accordance with Royal Decree 389/2021, of June 1,
by which its Statute is approved, that of "supervising the application of the
legislation in force regarding the protection of personal data in order to protect
protect the rights and freedoms of natural persons”. For this purpose, their
powers are not limited to sanctioning activity, but article 58 of the
RGPD has corrective alternatives, such as warning, warning,
treatment or, even, order when appropriate that the treatment operations
to be carried out in a certain way and within a specified period.

In this sense, as the AEPD itself recalls, the sanctions have a financial
dissuasive capacity and it is more than evident that they do not need the spur of a
sanction to protect the data of its clients.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/88

2. FIRST ALLEGATION.- WRONGNESS AND LACK OF ACCURACY IN
APPRECIATIONS ON DUPLICATE FRAUD.
The AEPD introduces a theoretical exposition to try to justify that, as
consequence of the access to the duplicate of the SIM card, there was an access to
personal data contained in the card itself.

First of all, it should be clarified that the SIM does not allow access to the IMEI.
 
As far as the IMSI is concerned, there is no proof or indication that this data
has been treated by criminals for any purpose, therefore, it has not been
accredited that their confidentiality has been affected.
 
Additionally, it has not been proven that any other information was accessed.
personal training guarded by SIMYO other than that provided by the pro-
pio delinquents obtained through social engineering techniques such as
“spoofing” and “phishing”, therefore, SIMYO has not allowed access by third parties.
unauthorized parties to personal information to which they do not have access
previously and, consequently, there has been no breach of confidentiality-
ity.
 
The AEPD mixes in its considerations the concept of access to data
as a consequence of the duplication of the SIM card with the realization
zation of banking operations.

Any liability arising from the duplication of cards is restricted
would turn, from the point of view of data protection, to the processing of information
information related to the services it provides (consumption associated with
treatment, access to private area, contracts, etc.) and on which there is no
any evidence that it has occurred.
 
However, the AEPD tries to hold SIMYO responsible and punish for
the consequences of the operations carried out by the banking entities.
Confuses the obligations of diligence in the processing of personal data
with a supposed obligation to provide security for banking operations
in relation to the identity of the clients of these third parties.
 
That is to say, it transfers the responsibility in the identification by the entities
bank transfers to telecommunications operators.
 
Banks are solely responsible for the security of their
operations. This is also confirmed by the European Banking Authority (EBA),
that in his “Opinion on the implementation of authentication methods re-
forced”, in its section on who decides on the means to be used
for said authentication (points 37 and 38), rules that the credentials of
security used to perform secure authentication of users of
the payment services are the responsibility of the entity that manages the services of
account (banks).
 
That banks usually opt for the confirmation system me-
Sending an SMS is a decision of your sole responsibility.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/88

 
It is a very widespread method and is not particularly secure. Refer to Digi-
such Identity Guidelines: Authentication and Lifecycle Management, from the “National
Institute of Standards Department”, which rules that SMS should not be
use in two-factor authentication, because of the number of security risks
authority to which it is subject in the delivery of an SMS.
 
For its part, the European Banking Authority (EBA), in one of its responses
to the questions posed by the sector (Qualification of SMS OTP as an
authentication factor | European Banking Authority (europa.eu)), although
pla the SMS as admissible confirmation factor, remember that the use of
Ordinary SMS is not feasible for the confirmation of banking operations,
for not being safe enough according to the standards of the Directive
PSD2.

Additionally, it points out that this type of information is in the public domain.
and refer to three links.
 
For this reason, the fact that the modus operandi for carrying out fraud
slow banking operations can be carried out using a SIM SWAP not
can in no way be considered an admission of responsibility for the
safety of these operations.
 
In fact, the operators' diligence is forcing criminals to
look for alternative methods to obtain the content of the SMS. refer to
news and information disseminated by the National Police through social networks
cials.
 
It reiterates that the responsibility of the operators cannot cover the operations
bank transactions that criminals may carry out as a result of
that the security measures implemented by banking entities
are inappropriate. Cannot take charge of information security
of third parties for the mere fact that they use telecommunications services.
cations.

He argues that the Agency requires strict liability, in which from
a result, a fault is deduced, without any kind of assessment about it.
on the diligence displayed, an interpretation proscribed by Spanish law.

3. SECOND ALLEGATION.- UNFOUNDED GENERALIZATION OF CONSE-
NEGATIVE ACCOUNTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ISSUANCE OF THE DUPLICATE.

The AEPD has not provided any facts or grounds to support its inter-
provision.
 
It admits that for the execution of banking operations the delinquent needs
ta, in addition to the duplication of the SIM, additionally access the information
personal information obtained illegally from the bank or from the user, for
which are not a consequence of obtaining the duplicate.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/88

And in what refers to the criminal modalities that seek “other purposes”.
ties”, the arguments used to justify the presumed responsibility
SIMYO are mere speculations, which refer to potential risks
them, which have neither materialized nor are they the subject of this proceeding and,
from a technical point of view, they are far from correct.
 
Pretending that access to a SIM card alone allows certain actions
processes, implies an interested ignorance of the functioning of the mechanisms
security isms associated with most, if not all, of
the services referred to.
 
The ability to access a user's accounts requires information
add-on not available on SIM card. Claims about the ease of
its obtaining lack any foundation and, what is more important, it is not
None of the risks has materialized nor is it the object of this procedure.
to which the AEPD refers, so its inclusion in this foundation
ment is totally inappropriate.
 
The AEPD refers to the punctual overcoming by a third party – ter-
zero, that we must identify as organized criminals, with high knowledge
computer skills, and an elaborate modus operandi in which, among others,
use social engineering techniques - to a lack of security, without evaluating the ni-
speed of diligence deployed by SIMYO.
 
SIMYO only recognizes that it is necessary to implement new measures
before the commission of this type of fraud, and it is precisely this model
management, continuous improvement, in accordance with the spirit of the RGPD and article 5.2,
(as the Agency itself has recognized), which means that SIMYO has not co-
committed any infraction in their treatment of personal data, because they have been
Appropriate security measures have been deployed, subject to review and
jora.

Regarding the improvement of protocol compliance controls, if
Although they are desirable, they cannot obviate the presence of the human factor.

No matter how tight the control or monitoring of your activity is, always
there is a possibility of non-compliance. Thus, for example, it is not possible
control whether or not a manager has asked a specific question to a client,
or verify that the answer is correct. Just as a user
authorized person always has the option to reveal confidential information of the
have knowledge.

In relation to the two duplications of SIM cards, these are due to a
inadequate application of the protocols established by SIMYO.

It should be remembered that, in addition, in both cases the security measures are exceeded.
security because the impersonators knew the personal data of the claimants.
blankets.

In relation to the statements contained in the Seventh Proven Fact, on-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

30/88

on alleged inconsistencies between the “Security Policy” and the “Documentation
Duplicate SIM”, it should be noted that they are not exclusive
rather they complement each other: although both documents are addressed to
agents that process requests in the Call Center, the document “Documenta-
Duplicate SIM” is prior to the “Security Policy”, although it is
only for a few days. That is why the most recent document,
(the “Security Policy”) is the one that strengthened the security protocol and
incorporated the ICCID or PUK application requirement together with the DNI, as a measure
additional days of guarantee of identity. This new protocol takes into account
assessment four levels of risk, in which the type of request of the
client, being, precisely, the request for a duplicate SIM card the act
to which a critical risk was assigned in said document, established
thereby taking additional measures to those already provided for in the previous document.
river.

In relation to the differences between points 4 and 5 of “Documentation Du-
SIM plicate” and the document “New Management Model”, indicate that the last
mo is dated 2019, so it predates all other documents
mentioned. The difference in this case is derived from the context of emer-
health and pandemic agency that took place in March 2020: although in
2019 the document "New Management Model" collected the impossibility of mo-
dify the delivery address of the SIM card, the situation during the spring
2020 forced to modify all procedures, and, among them, enabled
tó the possibility of modifying the delivery address. The post-
later “SIM Duplicate Documentation” allowed address changes from
shipping as long as it was in the same province. This change is justified
affected by the impossibility of delivering the order in the work centers and in
Points of Sale during the health emergency.

Thus, the information collected in international procedures is decontextualized.
SIMYO with the intention of identifying contradictions, when, in reality,
Indeed, these nuances are only due to the different time frames
in which the various documents are issued.

4. THIRD ARGUMENT. – SUITABILITY AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE MEASURES
PREVENTIVES IMPLEMENTED.

The AEPD questions the protocols that SIMYO uses. However, the arguments
The arguments he uses to make this statement are contradictory.
 
Therefore, following the effectiveness criterion pointed out by the AEPD itself and even
that what is desirable is always to achieve the cancellation of the risk, the percentage that
present the cases, ***NUMBER.4%, does not allow to qualify the protocols as
inappropriate.
 
The risk approach introduced by the RGPD comes to determine that, given the impossibility of
possibility of a zero risk, the appropriate measures will be those that, within the
state of the art, application costs, nature, scope, context
and the purposes of the treatment, allow to reduce the risk inherent to the minimum risk
possible.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/88

 
Impose a sanction because in two isolated cases among more than 800,000
has produced an undesired result supposes adopting a principle of responsibility
objective ity in the sanctioning scope vetoed by our Legal System.
 
Article 28 of the LRJSP, ties the responsibility to the concurrence of fraud or
fault, no longer includes the last paragraph of article 130 of Law 30/1992, that is, the
possibility of answering "... even as a simple non-observance".
 
The Constitutional Court, since its Judgment 76/1990, has been warning about
on strict liability and, in any case, the requirement that the Administration
tion, when sanctioning, prove some degree of intentionality. It requires the
recurrence of guilt in the degrees of intent and fault or gross negligence, not
Mere negligence is sufficient.
 
Therefore, the overcoming of the security measures by a third party cannot
determine by itself that they are not adequate or sufficient.

Refers to files E/05168/2021, E/00536/2016, E/02237/2020 E/
02723/2020, E/06963/2020, E/00722/2020, E/09882/2020 and arguments of the
Agency, exponents of a duality of criteria that causes an evident indepen-
fension, he does not know with certainty what to expect, nor what measures can be implemented,
when they are considered appropriate on certain occasions, and, on others,
constituting a very serious offence.
 
Likewise, it refers to files E/05272/2018, E/07129/2014, E/
08205/2019, E/5441/2018.
 
It is not understandable that, despite the volume of data affected by the breaches
measures, an adequate level of diligence is appreciated and, nevertheless, in the present
procedure, where only two interested parties have been affected, no
assess as adequate the level of diligence shown, through the measures of
security, detection and correction, taking into account the number of security processes
SIM duplication made.

SIMYO is also the victim of an “attack” led by criminal organizations
that has digital and social engineering techniques aimed exclusively at
overcome the security measures implemented.
 
Thus, the measures pointed out by the AEPD regarding "the inclusion of these in the system
topic of information, (...), even with controls on the screens of the information system.
training (...)” do not guarantee any improvement in the control of these activities.
Any agent could accept the buttons to continue the process despite not
having carried out the specific security measure.
 
The full employee monitoring options, in addition to not being provided
tioned in accordance with the data protection regulations, they would have a discounted cost.
proportionate, considering that it should be exhaustively controlled to all the
agents potentially involved in an operation of this type (maximum
taking into account that the control should be carried out in real time), when the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

32/88

Statistics show that the related incidences are negligible.
 
On the other hand, it has been proven that all agents have received the training
necessary information and that the information and management is carried out without any impact on
practically all cases.
 
Additionally, it is possible to verify compliance with the obligations, since
that user activity is recorded.
 
All of the above, without prejudice to the fact that, in its process of continuous improvement of the security
ity, SIMYO continues to analyze possible improvements in all its processes.
 
Regarding the contractual documentation with the delivery companies, it should be noted
that in the two cases that concern us, no company or
delivery service provider.
 
The certificates that SIMYO holds, as part of the Orange Group, recognized
by the National Security Scheme (ENS), have a broad scope, which does not
only encompasses information systems, but there are a series of
controls that apply to the entire organization, in attention to different aspects,
inclusive: data protection, network security, use of information systems,
training and awareness and security in the human resources process.

These controls are transversal to the entire organization.
 
Far from wanting to evade responsibility, what is requested is precisely that
Such responsibility is limited to the treatment actually carried out, without extending the
responsibility corresponding to other entities, such as operations and
actions carried out by different banking entities.
 
Lastly, it should be noted that the nature of the fundamental right of the right to
data protection does not eliminate the need to examine the diligence displayed
given by SIMYO, nor the consideration of the tiny percentage of incidents that have been
produced in the SIM card duplication processes.

5. FOURTH ARGUMENT. – DILIGENT PERFORMANCE BY ORANGE.

The wording is totally confusing and contradictory, so that each paragraph
seems to affirm the opposite of what the previous one says, to finally finish projecting
considering an indeterminate lack of diligence as the ultimate reason for the sanction.
 
The AEPD considers that it has breached article 5.1.f), the so-called principle of
integrity and confidentiality.

He emphasizes the contradictions of the Agency and invokes that it makes him totally defenseless.
sion, because despite the fact that it has managed to prove in the procedure the
fulfillment of his duty of diligence and being recognized, is the subject of a
sanction for an undetermined reason, before which you cannot present
try any.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/88

All this brings cause in that the AEPD is evaluating the responsibility of SIM-
I attending only to one result, constituting an assumption of res-
objective responsibility, being indifferent to the diligence displayed in his
preventive and palliative measures.
 
Reasons why they should be discarded:
 

• The AEPD recognizes that “The risk approach and the flexible risk model
imposed by the RGPD […] does not impose in any case the infallibility of the
measures (…)". However, it intends to sanction for two specific cases
among nearly a million.

• Regarding the impossibility of verifying the DNI in the case of the complaining party-
two, despite having specific software, it is an impossibility
technical reliability, not an error in the security procedure.

 
•

 
•

 
•

It indicates that the fault has to do with the diligence displayed, not with a hero.
cho objective as the number of processed data.

“The infraction occurs not because of the lack of a specific security policy.
ity for the issuance of SIM duplicates, but because of the need for their revi-
sion and reinforcement”. Despite having recognized that, “SIMYO has acted diligently
when it comes to minimizing the impact on those who may be affected by implantation
new security measures to avoid the repetition of similar incidents.
res in the future”.

 
• The AEPD re-introduces a new criterion for the responsibility of SIM-
I in the cases analyzed, indicating that it "is directly related to
related to the generation of consequences in third parties”. Move to SIMYO
responsibility for treatments over which it has no capacity.
control.

 
• The concept of improvement, abstract and generic to which the Agency alludes, would allow
classify any protocol as inadequate, insofar as any process is sus-
room for improvement.

It includes certain jurisprudence related to fault, in which it is recognized
that it does not attend if it is justified "that the due diligence has been used
demandable by the person who alleges its non-existence” or it is indicated that “there is no negligence
ence, nor therefore infraction, "when the necessary diligence has been put in
fulfillment of obligations”.

 
• The liability of a legal person must be assessed based on the di-
ligence deployed as an entity, manifested through the procedures
and instructions approved by it.

However, the AEPD does not consider that the risks generated by third parties
(banking entities) and that are their responsibility, would be mitigated in a
much simpler if they adopted adequate measures to improve security.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

34/88

the nature of the operations they perform.
 
Reasons why SIMYO should not be sanctioned:
 
The confidentiality of the data processed in the duplication process of the tar-
jeta SIM was previously broken by banking entities.
 
SIMYO has no control over this operation nor can it affect its authorization/provision.
assignment/execution.
 
The succession of suppositions and possibilities cannot serve, under any concept,
to, as a justification, to impose an infraction on SIMYO without entering into an assessment,
reasoned, the level of diligence displayed and the events that actually occurred
two. These threats identified by the AEPD fall outside the scope of action
tion of SIMYO.
The AEPD considers guilt of SIMYO's conduct, although, far from identifying and relating
tar the concrete behavior, is limited to referring to the result. This procedure is not
in accordance with current legislation, as indicated by the National High Court, among others,
in the Judgment of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber, Section 1, of 23
December 2013, Rec. 341/2012:
It should be remembered that the reference to "simple non-compliance" has been removed
by the current Law 40/2015, for which a lack of qualified diligence would be necessary.
each.
 
Invokes the SAN, Contentious Chamber, of February 25, 2010, Appeal No.
226/2009”.
 
Mere human error cannot give rise, by itself, to sanctioning consequences.
swimmers.
 
The similarity of this case with the one included in the SAN of
February 25, 2010: these are intrusions committed illegally, for
zeros organized and with high computer knowledge, directed to an activity
highly elaborate crime.
 
The fact that the AEPD and the Courts have been considering that
in the case of technical attacks (hacking), directed against companies, it is considered
dere that his diligence does not include having the capacity to repel this type of attack.
ques is interpreted in the opposite way in this case, penalizing SIMYO because
their security measures may depend on the actions of specific people.
you.
 
SIMYO, nor its employees or agents, may not be required to have the ability
to infallibly identify cases of fraud, especially when
offers, an “appearance of reality and seriousness sufficient to deceive people
of average perspicacity and diligence” (so considered, among many others, in the
STS 2362/2020).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/88

6. FIFTH ARGUMENT. – LACK OF PROPORTIONALITY OF THE PENALTY
PROPOSAL.

Despite the fact that the AEPD has modulated the amount of the sanction imposed, it is considered
It is believed that, having been diligent in their actions, no imposition of sanctions is appropriate.
any tion.

For the hypothetical case that the existence of an assumption incompliance is considered,
compliance, it is not proportional.
 
It should be stressed that no dissuasive action is necessary, as long as the
position object of the present procedure has been carried out against all
volitional element of SIMYO.
 
SIMYO has not obtained any benefit, but it has been a detriment. By
which, as far as the need for the deterrent effect is concerned, the mere commission
of the crime is detrimental to SIMYO.
 
Additionally, it participates voluntarily in the GT.

FOURTH.- PRINCIPLES RELATED TO TREATMENT.

SIMYO. shares with the Agency the relevance of security measures in
In order to guarantee the fundamental right to data protection, however,
A series of qualifications must be made:

The damage suffered by both claimants has been recognized: both

•
received compensation from SIMYO.

 •
Particular circumstances of the claims cannot be considered
presented nor assumptions within the object of this procedure,
the assumptions and possibilities that the AEPD elucidates: access to applications, use
of social networks, etc.

Said assumptions can in no way justify the Resolution Proposal

•
from the agency.

SIMYO has no control over such procedures and has no influence on the

•
security measures used by banks.

•
Although SIMYO., as the data controller, has the obligation to declare
terminate its security measures, it is the person in charge of the treatment who will assume
responsibility, configuring himself as responsible, when he does not follow the instructions.
tions of the first and fails to comply with the purposes and means of the treatment in question, as
This is stipulated in article 28.10 of the RGPD.

 •
To reiterate, that on two occasions the identity of the
claimants in two SIM card duplication procedures out of a total of approx.
***NUMBER.3 duplication procedures, by sufficient deception
cient, it cannot automatically determine the commission of infraction and absence
of diligence on the part of SIMYO.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/88

SIMYO does not "provide duplicate SIM cards to third parties". How-

 •
If the third party got the duplicate SIM card, it was because he cheated the agent.

•
We are not in the presence of a particularly relevant personal data.
The codes it contains need to be associated with other personal data, in order to
provide identification of the owner. There is also no evidence of access by supplanted
identity agents to personal data other than those that they already knew in a
ra prior to fraudulently obtaining the duplicate SIM card.

  •
In relation to STC 292/200, the definition and consideration
tion of the right to data protection as a fundamental right. What is not
acceptable is the intention of the Agency to impute said infraction, despite having
carried out an appropriate and adequate deployment of security measures, in
the terms of article 32 of the RGPD.

FIFTH.- SECURITY OF TREATMENT.

The legal classification made by the Agency of the infraction imputed to SIM-
YO does not include the violation of article 32 of the RGPD.

SIXTH.- GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPOSITION OF THE FINE AD-
MINISTRATIVE.

The treatment carried out does not violate data protection regulations, since,
SIMYO has displayed an appropriate level of diligence in imposing the measures
technical and organizational measures necessary to prevent the commission of fraud in the
requests for duplicate SIM cards.
 
The proposed sanction is in any case disproportionate, taking into account the circumstances.
substance and content of the alleged infractions.
 
Recitals 11 and 13 of the RGPD, which refer to guaranteeing the protection
effective disposal of personal data and to do so in a consistent manner, point out that
This objective also depends on “infractions being punished with sanctions”.
n equivalents”.

 - Aggravating factors:

1. Nature and seriousness of the infraction:

The loss of control and disposal of personal data does not start when
SIMYO performs the SIM duplication, but it takes place before.

The reference to “After the entry into force of the PSD2 Directive, the telephone
mobile begins to have a very important role (...)” does nothing but certify the transfer
responsibility towards SIMYO that the AEPD intends, without taking into account
that the limitation of these risks corresponds to those bound by said regulation.
tive, who are obliged to implement adequate measures, among which
that the confirmation of the operations is not found by sending
SMS.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/88

This section does not assess the nature and seriousness of the offense charged.
tada, which refers to the maintenance of adequate security of the
personal data (article 5.1 f) RGPD), but returns, once again, to
analyze the subsequent activity carried out by the individuals who supplant the
identity of the claimants.

Categorize the nature and seriousness of the treatment carried out by SIMYO,
ge evaluate the security measures established in the procedures of
SIM card duplication.

Reiterate, again, that third parties have not had access to either
assumptions that here concern us with the mobile phones of the claimants,
and, consequently, neither to the information that they could store.
to store, which is different, in any case, from the information that can be stored
add a SIM card (as we have already mentioned, no applications are stored)
nes, for example).

2. Level of damages suffered:

SIMYO is not responsible for the identification and verification policies of
customers established by banking entities.

The Agency indicates that, if the duplicate of the SIM card is not obtained by the
identity theft, it would not have been possible to carry out the banking operations
fraudulent charges and access to the verification system. Nor would
banking operations could have been carried out if the financial entity used
another security system at checkout.

The Agency does not assess the level of damages, as long as it is
limit to indicate that these "multiply", without explaining what is the relationship between
this affirmation and the facts object of analysis in this proceeding.

In relation to the origin that it indicates to carry out an evaluation of im-
pact, the Agency cannot pretend that the possibilities of com-
ssion of fraud in carrying out banking operations through applications
tions and third-party electronic banking. Again, the Agency performs a
simplistic approach, omitting the complexity of the sequence of events.

It cannot be affirmed that the SIM card duplication process derives addresses
strictly, nor necessarily, fraudulent banking operations.

SIMYO has also acted, in a matter of minutes, specifically, in case
of the complaining party two, in 36 minutes it has blocked the SIM, identified the
case and frustrated the offenders' ability to commit further harm.
cio. However, instead of considering the level of effectiveness deployed, im-
places an obligation of absolute result.

For all of the above, the alleged damages indicated by the AEPD
they could not be imputed to SIMYO nor, therefore, considered as aggravating.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/88

3. Intentionality or negligence in the infringement:

The Agency requires SIMYO an absolute obligation of result, as long as the ni-
level of diligence is not being evaluated in attention to the measures and procedures
established procedures, but only attends to the result obtained.

Thus, it introduces strict liability rejected by our Constitutional Court.
institutional, as we have already indicated, in the jurisprudence that emanates from the STC
76/1990 of April 26.

In addition, the Agency also contradicts the jurisprudence (Sentence of the TS
of January 23, 1998) that she herself has been using to support her
legal qualification.

That is why it cannot be considered negligent, as long as
appropriate procedures have been established, which have been reviewed and
progressively forced. In any case, SIMYO must be considered diligent.
people and act this fact as mitigating the sanction.

4. Degree of responsibility of the person in charge:

It should be noted in this regard that in the two cases that concern us, the
agents breached SIMYO's security policy and the specific measures
tas that it imposed.

In addition, as we have been indicating, SIMYO has preventive measures,
technical and organizational measures, palliative and coercive measures, by which
It mentions those who do not comply with the imposed obligations.

Thus, it should be interpreted in favor of SIMYO.

5. Categories of personal data affected by the infringement:

It has only been possible to determine the processing of identifying personal data
basic, whose knowledge by criminals was prior to the duplication of
the card.

The theory that the SIM card is a personal data has no support.

Therefore, the type of data being processed must be considered as
a mitigation.

6. Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of treatment
personal data:

The activity carried out by SIMYO cannot be considered, in a general way,
neric, as an aggravating element. Otherwise, any procedure
SIMYO would always have said aggravating circumstance, since it is being considered
that the seriousness of a possible infraction is increased by the mere fact of per-
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

39/88

have the telecommunications sector and carry out data processing.

- Mitigators

1. Degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority

In addition to cooperation and collaboration with research, this part wants
I will review the work of SIMYO, as well as of the entire Orange Group, participating
voluntarily in the WG for the review and coordinated improvement of the procedures
procedures related to security in the processing of personal data.

2. The profits obtained as a result of the commission of the in-
fraction

Insist that not only does the absence of benefit occur, but that it has
put a detriment on SIMYO, who has had to carry out investigations
internal complaints, make compensation to the complainants and reevaluate procedures
ments and protocols.
   
To conclude, it considers that the provisions of
Article 76.3 of the LOPDGDD regarding sanctions and corrective measures:
“It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate,
da, of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679” which indicates that administrative fines are imposed
will put “as an additional or substitute for the measures contemplated in art.
Article 58, section 2, letters a) to h)”.

Taking into account the concurrent circumstances and the null intentionality or
SIMYO's fault, in the event that it is considered that there is any type of in-
fraction of the RGPD, the sanction proposal should be replaced by the adopt-
tion of corrective measures (article 58), consisting of the warning or
warning to the controller and the imposition of the obligation
of adopting measures to carry out the treatments “of a certain
manner and within a specified period.

In this regard, SIMYO understands that the initially estimated fine may
to be perfectly replaced by the obligatory adoption of corrective measures.
bulls.

CONCLUSIONS

  

  

1º.- Although the information stored on the SIM card could be considered -
never the card itself - as personal data, it has not been proven that the
themselves have been the object of treatment during the time in which the offenders
many had duplicate SIM cards operational.

2º.- The criminals did not obtain from SIMYO any additional personal data to
those who already had prior to going to SIMYO, obtained from entities
banks and that are used to supplant the identity of those affected,
Therefore, the treatment carried out does not imply a breach of confidentiality.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/88

ness of personal data.

3º.- The responsibility of the teleoperators cannot reach the opera-
banking operations that may be carried out as a result of the measures
security measures of banking entities are inadequate.

4º.- It has been proven that the two assumptions are due to an inadequate
application of the protocols established by SIMYO that, as evidence
statistics, are adequate and efficient and only in an absolutely correct way.
sidual have been able to be overcome by criminals.

5º.- The overcoming of the security measures by a third party cannot determine
automatically determine that they are inadequate since it implies applying
establish a principle of strict liability in the sanctioning scope vetoed
by the legal system.

6º.- The AEPD has declared certain facts accredited (which has a
security policy in which the mode of action for the expedition is established
of the duplicates; that an infringement of article 32 cannot be inferred, nor
little of article 5.2 and 25 of the RGPD; that there are protocols to prevent
identity theft; that have been transferred to those involved in the
imitation; that improvements have been made after discovering certain vulnerabilities;
that there are penalties for its non-compliance or that it has acted diligently-
when it comes to minimizing the impact by implementing new security measures.
ity).

For all of the above, it is not appropriate to declare the existence of an infringement of art.
Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD nor, consequently, the imposition of any sanction, in
both an adequate level of diligence has been accredited and it has not been accredited
no breach of the duty of confidentiality.

(Bold italics is from SIMYO).

These Allegations will be answered in the FD of this Resolution.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following are accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: SIMYO is responsible for the data processing referred to in the pre-
this Resolution, since according to the definition of article 4.7 of the RGPD it is
who determines the purpose and means of the treatments carried out with the purposes
indicated in its Privacy Policy, among others: For the fulfillment of the relationship
commercial or institutional: those necessary to carry out the provision of the
telecommunications services, maintenance and management of the relationship for purposes
to comply with the provisions of the contract signed between the parties: manage the
User registration and allow access to the activities and tools available to
through the website www.simyo.es; carry out the User registration, as well as the maintenance
maintenance and management of the contractual relationship with SIMYO; manage, process and give
response to requests, requests, incidents or queries from the User, when the User
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/88

provide your data through the forms provided for this purpose on the Website www.-
simyo.es, etc.

SECOND: SIMYO is an integral part of the ORANGE Group (ORANGE, JAZZTEL,
MOBILE REPUBLIC, AMENA and SIMYO).
THIRD: On September 2, 2019, this Agency has entered a re-
claim made by claimant one (file with reference no.
E/10534/2019), directed against SIMYO, after being issued on August 14, 2019,
a duplicate of the SIM card of the line ***TELEFONO.1, in favor of a third party
sona different from the owner of the line -the claimant party one- and be left without service.
At 9:35 p.m. on August 14, 2019, the claimant one receives in his
private email an email from ING DIRECT, where it reads:
“ORANGE LOAN DOCUMENTATION”, “Dear A.A.A., thank you for
choose us for contracting your loan (...) we attach the documentation
legal document relating to the orange loan number ***PRÉSTAMO.1, as well as three
documents in pdf format, European standardized information, assistance prior to
contract, and orange loan contract”. The loan amounts to 43,000'00 euros
with a monthly fee of 586.09 euros, in 84 installments and expiration date
8/36/2026, at 3.95% interest.
At 9:43 p.m. on August 14, 2019 (…) you receive in your email
(...) an email from the ING DIRECT bank, which reads:
“Dear Mr. A.A.A., (…) we enclose a copy of the documentation related to your
hiring (...) contracted product payroll account number ***ACCOUNT.3, where
Likewise, all the personal data of this party are recorded (...)”. From this
payroll account, a transfer is made for an amount of 10,000'00 euros in favor of
a third.
A bank transfer is also made, for an amount of 10,000'00 euros, from
the current account of the complaining party one ***ACCOUNT.1 (ING) to the account
***ACCOUNT.2 (BBVA) -of which his wife is the owner-, without his consent.
There is a telephone call from the line ***TELEFONO.1 to the number 912518375 to
at 10:36:22 p.m. on August 14, 2019, to the BBVA Customer Service Department.

Due to these facts, claimant one files a complaint with the Unit
Organization of the Judicial Police of the Civil Guard, Huelva Command, on date
August 15, 2019, with proceedings number XXX/XX, which is subject to
extension, dated August 21, 2019, in which it adds:

“(…) That the creation in the positions of the undersigned of the entity
banking ing,

Debit card in the name of A.A.A. ***CARD.1
Debit card in the name of A.A.A. ***CARD.2
Credit Card in the name of A.A.A. ***CARD.3”

The complaining party one, on August 15, 2019, contacts SI-
MYO, through Customer Service, indicating that it does not recognize either the du-
SIM card application or modification of contact details (email)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/88

done.

SIMYO confirms that the SIM card was delivered on 08/14/2019 in a (...) and
that the activation occurs through the (...) through the option existing in that
moment of “(…)” at 21:15:40.

The activation is carried out after (...).

SIMYO, dated August 23, 2019, eliminates the possibility of (...).

SIMYO, dated August 30, 2019, disables the possibility of (...).

SIMYO acknowledges that (…).

FOURTH: On November 6, 2019, this Agency has entered a re-
claim made by claimant two (file with reference no.
E/00220/2020), directed against SIMYO, after being issued on August 23, 2019,
a duplicate of the SIM card of the line ***TELEFONO.4, in favor of a third party
sona different from the owner of the line - the complaining party two - and be left without service.

On August 23, 2019 at 5:02 p.m., the complaining party sends an email
email to "soporte@simyo.es" with the following tenor:

"Buenas tardes,
I need to know the data of the phone that has called me with a hidden number
pretending to be a SIMYO operator to obtain my personal data.
Last call received:
Day: 08/23/2019
Time: 16:12
Duration: 1 Min 13 sec
I enclose my ID, as indicated by the customer service operator for
get this information.
Thanks in advance.
C.C.C.”

On August 24, 2019, the complaining party two, accesses the Personal Area of
client and see the following message:

“Here you have the history of all the operations carried out with your lines
(portability, registration, shipping...) 08/23/2019 17:48:43 Mission accomplished! I already
we have delivered your duplicate sim, remember that to activate it go to
DUPLICATE/ACTIVATE SIM section of the menu. LINE: ***PHONE.5.”

Due to these facts, claimant two files a complaint with Post P.
of Rincón de la Victoria, of the Malaga Civil Guard Command, on the date
August 24, 2019, with report number *** COMPLAINT.1 in which it states:

“(…) who is the owner of a bank account in the entity Banco Santander with
account number ***ACCOUNT.4, in which it appears as authorized persons
the complainant's father D. E.E.E., his mother Dª F.F.F. and the brother of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/88

complainant D.G.G.G..

That on August 23, 2019, around 10:45 p.m.
complainant accesses the account inquiry application of the Bank entity
Santander, and you can check how the amount of
30,000-- euros, who immediately makes a phone call to his parents
to find out the reason for said withdrawal, and that his parents inform him that they do not
have made no movement of that amount. (…)
That the complainant receives a call on his mobile terminal with a number
***TELEFONO.4, which operates with the company SYMIO, with a hidden number and
privately, around 1:35 p.m. approximately, in which a
male interlocutor, several questions without being related to the
complainant, such as providing your ID, date of birth, etc., that the
interlocutor had a Spanish accent, apparently from the north of Spain.
That the complainant receives a second call with a hidden and private number in
the aforementioned terminal, at 4:12 p.m., on August 23, 2019, in the
which the male interlocutor tells him: Hi, I'm calling from SIMYO, (offering him a
offer of data and calls), requesting the complainant his date of birth,
providing the interlocutor with his date, the interlocutor informing the complainant
that if he wanted to verify the offer he should call the number 1644, customer service number
to the customer of SIMYO company.
That the complainant makes a call to 1644 to verify the veracity of the
offer and is informed that the company has not offered him anything. (…)
That the complainant sends an email to the aforementioned company to
report what happened.
That the complainant checks how his mobile terminal is left without coverage,
contacting the SIMYO company again to find out the reason for this
incidence, being informed by the company, that it did not have coverage due to
of security, and that on Monday the problem would be solved.
That through the personal area (...), you can see a message, at 04:57
hours day 08-24-2019, in which it is stated that there has been a duplicate of the
SIM card, which occurred at 5:48 p.m. on 08-23-2019, being of
special interest since this duplication takes place approximately one hour,
that the complainant inform the company of the calls received with
hidden and private number.
ASKED to say or provide the information available to the
extraction of the amount of 30,000 euros.
STATES that it has occurred through bank transfer, which does not
has not been authorized by the complainant, nor has it proceeded to enter codes of
confirmation, nor make the electronic signature, not knowing how it has been possible
produce said transfer, that the account where the money has been transferred is
the following ***ACCOUNT.5 where Hhh (sic) appears as the beneficiary, you cannot
provide an extract of the movement, since the entity is closed due to the end of
week, and not being able to access your current account through the application of
the entity for having the mobile phone blocked”.

In relation to this claim, SIMYO verifies to this Agency that, on the 23rd of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/88

August 2019, (…).
On 08/23/2019 at 18:24:34, SIMYO proceeds (...).
At 7:47:04 p.m. that same day, there was a (…).
SIMYO confirms that (…).
SIMYO confirms up to a total of (…) ***PHONE.6 and ***PHONE.7 and confirms
than the person who (...). It also confirms the receipt -on that same date- of (...)
from the numbers ***TELEFONO.8 and ***TELEFONO.6.
FIFTH: In December 2019, SIMYO informs the AEPD of the security policy
applicable to requests for duplicate SIM cards and distinguishes
(…)
SIXTH: SIMYO has a Security Policy (...)
SEVENTH: SIMYO has security measures that it applies to the process of
issuance of the duplicate SIM collected in the (...).
EIGHTH: SIMYO has defined a new (...), which provides the following instructions
nes:

(...).

NINTH: SIMYO has security measures that it applies to the process of
“(…)” that includes the following instructions:

(…)

TENTH: SIMYO has a system of (...)
ELEVENTH: (...)

TWELFTH: SIMYO is an integral part of the ORANGE group, which is part of the
Spanish Association for Digitization and participates in the project “Digital Identity
Segura (IDS)” whose purpose is -among others, to protect against fraud and cyberattacks-
ques and the defense of data privacy.

It actively participates in the proposal of different driving projects and in the development
llo of applications that guarantee the IDS.

(…)

THIRTEENTH: SIMYO has adopted a series of actions to prevent SIM
Swapping:
(…)

FOURTEENTH: SIMYO reports (...) ***PHONE.9 and ***PHONE.10 respectively
tively, canceled in both cases.
There is a recording related to the activation of a SIM card on the line ***TE-
LEFONO.9 in which (...).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/88

FIRST: Competition.
By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the AEPD is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.
Of the participation of the telecommunications operators, and the other interveners
and of the conclusions or agreements reached in the WG and that appear in the
corresponding minutes, it cannot be deduced that the AEPD has validated
do any type of action by SIMYO in relation to the facts under analysis in
the present procedure.
The AEPD has attributed a series of competencies, powers and functions provided for in
Articles 55 and following of the RGPD that according to article 8 of the LRJSP,
They are inalienable and are exercised by the administrative bodies that have them attributed.
you give as your own
In the exercise of the functions and powers attributed to it by articles 57 and 58 of the
RGPD, controls the application of the RGPD, conducts investigations and imposes, where appropriate,
administrative sanctions which may include administrative fines, and
orders the corresponding corrective measures, according to the circumstances of each
particular case. Thus, you can carry out the investigations you deem appropriate (ar-
Article 67 of the LOPDGDD), after which you can decide to initiate an ex officio procedure
sanctioning party (article 68 LOPDGDD).
In the case examined, the investigations carried out in order to determine the co-
mission of some facts and the scope of these revealed a possible lack
of security measures that has directly affected the duty to maintain confidentiality.
confidentiality of customer data.
SECOND: Applicable regulations.
Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency shall be governed by the provisions of the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, on a subsidiary basis, by
the general rules on administrative procedures.”
THIRD: Violation.
The actions outlined in the Background had the purpose of analyzing the
procedures followed to manage SIM change requests by SI-
MYO, identifying the vulnerabilities that could exist in the procedures
implemented operations, to detect the causes for which they could be pro-
ducting these cases, as well as finding points of non-compliance, improvement or adjustment,
to determine responsibilities, reduce risks and increase safety in the workplace.
treatment of the personal data of the affected persons.
The facts declared previously proven, violate article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and
are constitutive of the infringement provided for in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD that we consider
ra very serious infraction the violation of:

“the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9,”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/88

Likewise, it is classified as sanctioned with an administrative fine of 20,000,000.00 euros.
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
as a maximum of the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year
higher, opting for the highest amount.
They are also constitutive of the infraction typified in article 72.1.a) of the LO-
PDGDD that considers a very serious infraction for the purposes of the prescription:

“The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

Article 75 of the LPACAP refers to the "Instruction Acts" as those necessitated
necessary for the determination, knowledge and verification of the facts under
of which the resolution must be pronounced. Well, the instruction resulted after
the analysis of the evidence practiced and the allegations adduced in accordance with the
seen in articles 76 and 77 of the LPACAP, that SIMYO has a security policy
security in which the way of acting in the face of personal data processing is established.
personnel necessary for the issuance of duplicate cards. However,
It was also proven that adequate safety in the work had not been guaranteed.
impersonation of personal data, taking into account the result produced by the impersonation
tion of identity
The concept of proactive responsibility is linked to the concept of compliance.
regulatory enforcement or compliance, already present in other regulatory areas (we refer to
We refer, for example, to the provision of article 31 bis of the Penal Code).

Thus, article 24 of the RGPD determines that “1. Considering the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of the treatment as well as the risks of different probabilities.
ity and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person responsible
of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee
czar and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this Regulation. Gave-
These measures will be reviewed and updated as necessary.
2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities, between
the measures mentioned in section 1 shall include the application, by the res-
responsible for the treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies”.
Proactive responsibility implies the implementation of a compliance model and
management of the RGPD that determines the generalized fulfillment of the obligations
in terms of data protection. It includes the analysis, planning, establishment
maintenance, updating and control of data protection policies in
an organization, especially if it is a large company, -understood as the set-
set of guidelines that govern the performance of an organization, practices, procedures
and tools, among others-, from privacy by design and by default, which
guarantee compliance with the RGPD, that prevent the materialization of risks and
that allow the controller to demonstrate compliance.
Pivot on risk management. As established in Report 0064/2020
of the Legal Office of the AEPD shows the metamorphosis of a system that has
gone from being reactive to becoming proactive, since "at the present time,
It must be borne in mind that the RGPD has meant a paradigm shift when approaching
give the regulation of the right to the protection of personal data, which becomes the foundation
be based on the principle of "accountability" or "proactive responsibility" as
The AEPD has repeatedly pointed out (Report 17/2019, among many others) and it is re-
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/88

takes in the Statement of Reasons of the LOPDGDD: "the greatest novelty presented by the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution of a model based, fundamentally, on
in the control of compliance to another that rests on the principle of responsibility
active, which requires a prior assessment by the person in charge or by the person in charge of the
treatment of the risk that could be generated by the treatment of personal data.
personnel to, based on said assessment, adopt the appropriate measures”.
It requires a conscious, committed, active and diligent attitude. consciousness
assumes knowledge of your organization by the data controller and
of how it is affected by data protection and the risks inherent to the
personal data processing; Commitment involves the will to comply and the
be truly responsible for the implementation of protection policies
of data in the organization; the active attitude is related to proactivity,
effectiveness, efficiency and operability; and diligence is the care, zeal and dedication
tion put into compliance.
Based on the foregoing, it can be affirmed that, from the instruction of the procedure, as
as inferred from the Proven Facts and considering the context of article 24 of the
RGPD in relation to SIMYO, it was verified, among others, the implementation of a mo-
the most effective way to avoid the risk of identity theft, the review, re-
strength and improvement of the security measures applied in the different channels
to ensure the identification and delivery procedure of the SIM card, with the
in order to prevent the materialization of fraud. Also, the immediate reaction to
the facts described and the capacity of the operator to demonstrate its compliance.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with the principle of proactive responsibility itself, it is the
The person responsible for the treatment must determine what the security measures are.
to be implemented, since only the latter has in-depth knowledge of its organization.
tion, the treatments it carries out, the risks associated with them and the
the precise security measures to be implemented to make effective the principle of in-
integrity and confidentiality. For all the above, we focus the facts on the infraction
tion derived from article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.
However, it has been proven that the measures implemented by SIMYO were insufficient.
and not only because they have been overcome and the transfer of personal data
nals to a third party.
In a non-exhaustive manner and by way of example, we will note that the policy of
security that SIMYO applied, allowed (...).
Cases have also been detected in which (...) have occurred. In this sense,
the SIM duplication procedure should include assigning the SIM to the customer
or line when it is sent or delivered, so that during activation
A SIM can only be activated when it has actually been delivered to the customer in
question.
Likewise, in the Seventh Proven Fact, we have outlined the inconsistencies detected
gaps between the security policy and the documented instructions. In this sense,
to improve compliance with security policies the instructions that are
transferred must be clear and up-to-date (without the different time frames in
those that are issued the different documents condition their readjustment).

It argues that the Agency has not justified the reason why it considers that it incurs the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/88

infringement of article 5.1.f) RGPD.
However, the AEPD has motivated with a brief reference to facts and grounds
of law, as required by article 35.1.h) of the LPACAP, the basis for its decision
cision. Likewise, it has guaranteed the rights provided for in article 64.2.f) and 89.2 of
the LPACAP, among which is the right to make allegations, without, for
Therefore, it can plead helplessness. He has been able to allege and contribute to the procedure everything
that to its right has agreed, without any limitation on the part of the AEPD. All
The allegations made to this effect have been considered and answered.
He adduces the confusion in the Antecedents and in the Proven Facts, on the two su-
posts analyzed. In this sense, we recognize that in the Background of the Pro-
Resolution setting, where it says:

FIRST: C.C.C. (hereinafter, the claimant party one), on September 2,
December 2019, files a claim with the AEPD against
ORANGE ESPAÑA VIRTUAL, S.L. with NIF B85057974 (hereinafter, SIMYO),
for the following reasons: (...)
SECOND: A.A.A., (hereinafter, the claimant party two), on the 6th of no-
November 2019, file a claim with the Post Office of
Torrehermosa Farm, which is registered with the AEPD on November 13.
2019, directed against SIMYO, for the following reasons: (...)
Should say:
FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party one), on September 2,
December 2019, files a claim with the AEPD against
ORANGE ESPAÑA VIRTUAL, S.L. with NIF B85057974 (hereinafter, SIMYO),
for the following reasons: (...)
SECOND: C.C.C., (hereinafter, the claimant party two), on the 6th of no-
November 2019, file a claim with the Post Office of
Torrehermosa Farm, which is registered with the AEPD on November 13.
2019, directed against SIMYO, for the following reasons: (...)

However, beyond these two material errors that affect six words
(Article 109.2 LPACAP), rectified in this Resolution, cannot adduce SIMYO,
that defenselessness has been generated. This is recognized by the STC 86/1997, of 22 Apr., FJ
1, «the defenselessness must be material, and not merely formal, which implies that this
formal defect has caused real and effective damage to the defendant in his
defense possibilities (STC 43/1989, 101/1990, 6/1992 and 105/1995, among others)”,
since it made allegations both to the Initiation Agreement and to the Proposed Resolution-
tion.
In no way does this confusion affect the Proven Facts that identify the claimants.
keep the respective files:
- no. reference E/10534/2019, claimant party one.
- no. reference E/00220/2020, claimant party two.
Or the information related to the email: ***EMAIL.1, once the name has been corrected,
exposed me.
On the other hand, it is perfectly admissible that the AEPD has considered the violation
tion of a certain precept in the conviction that it is more in line with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/88

events that happen, especially when it is duly motivated. At the beginning of
this FD we already indicated that the Agency's actions were aimed at analyzing
the procedures applied to SIM card change requests. SIM card
It constitutes the physical support through which personal data is accessed.
end of the affected person. If their disposal and control are not guaranteed, access to the
personal data of the owner, as well as the possible use or uses by third parties, becomes
in a threat that can have devastating effects on the lives of these people.
Thus, the fraud known as "SIM Swapping" is a criminal technique
consisting of obtaining a duplicate of the SIM card associated with a telephone line
ownership of a user, in order to impersonate their identity to obtain access
so to your social networks, instant messaging applications, banking applications,
rias or electronic commerce, in order to interact and carry out operations in your
name, authenticating by means of a username and password previously taken from
that user, as well as with the double factor authentication when receiving the confirmation SMS.
mation in their own mobile terminal where they will have inserted the duplicate SIM card.
It should be noted that in the first phase of this type of scam the impersonator considers
fraudulently mislead login details or online banking credentials
of the client, but he needs to be able to know the verification code, second factor of increase
authentication, to be able to execute any operation. The moment you achieve
the duplicate SIM card already also has access to this second authentication factor.
tion and, therefore, from that moment and under certain circumstances, you can make
the acts of patrimonial disposal that you want. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the
operator to establish requirements that, although a quick reading may seem
be very strict, a much more careful reading has shown that it is not
were. With which, the scam or impersonation, which apparently could seem complete
and difficult, it is observed that it has not been so difficult due to the inadequacy of the measures
security measures when it comes to monitoring who is the owner of the SIM card or the person
this authorized the one requesting the duplicate.
FOURTH: Treatment of personal data and data controller.
Article 4 of the RGPD, under the heading "Definitions", provides the following:
“1) «personal data»: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;
2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations carried out on data
personal data or sets of personal data, either by automated procedures
ized or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation,
adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission
sion, dissemination or any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection,
limitation, suppression or destruction”.
7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person, autho-
public authority, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of treatment; whether the law of the Union or of the Member States
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the controller or the criteria
Specific criteria for their appointment may be established by Union Law or
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/88

of the Member States”
8) “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge”: the natural or legal person, authorized
public entity, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the res-
responsible for the treatment;
SIMYO, is responsible for the data processing referred to in the background
exposed, since according to the definition of article 4.7 of the RGPD it is the one that
determines the purpose and means of the treatments carried out with the purposes indicated.
in its Privacy Policy, as has been proven in the Proven Facts.
two, section First.
Likewise, the issuance of a duplicate SIM card supposes the treatment of the damages
personal data of its owner since any person will be considered an identifiable natural person.
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular through
by an identifier (article 4.1) of the RGPD).
In this sense, it should be clarified that, inside the mobile terminal, the card is inserted
SIM. It is a smart card, in physical format and of reduced dimensions, which contains
It has a chip in which the service key of the subscriber or subscriber is stored.
gives to identify itself to the network, that is, the customer's mobile phone number
MSISDN (Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network - Mobile Station Network
Integrated Services Digital-), as well as the personal identification number of the
subscriber IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity - International Identity of the
mobile subscriber-) but can also provide other types of data such as information
tion on the telephone list or the calls and messages list.
The SIM card can be inserted into more than one mobile terminal, provided that it is
is released or is from the same company.
In Spain, since 2007, through the Unique Additional Provision of the Law
25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to communications
electronic networks and public communications networks, it is required that the holders of all
All SIM cards, whether prepaid or contract, are duly identified.
two and registered. This is important because subscriber identification will be important.
dispensable to register the SIM card, which will mean that when obtaining
a duplicate of this the person who requests it must also identify himself and that
your identity coincides with that of the owner.
SIMYO adduces a series of nuances regarding the data subject to treatment.
The treatment activity questioned has been the request and action management model.
Activation of duplicate SIM cards that -currently- lend through (...), not the
Processing carried out by third parties or other entities, such as financial,
that invokes
He reasons that there is no evidence that the IMSI has been dealt with. In this sense, the IMSI in the me-
measure that makes it possible to single out an individual, and therefore identify him, must be considered
data of a personal nature in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD.
It is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union
(STJUE) of October 19, 2016 Case C-582/14, which considers that even the di-
dynamic IP address must be considered personal data to the extent that
the service provider has the means to know the identity of the holder of that di-
dynamic IP address.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/88

Or the most recent STJUE of June 17, 2021 Case C-579/19 that in its section
102 recalls that “(…) A dynamic IP address registered by a service provider
online media services on the occasion of the consultation by a person of an In-
internet that that provider makes accessible to the public constitutes with respect to said provider
dor a personal data in the sense of article 4, point 1, of Regulation 2016/679,
when he has legal means that allow him to identify the interested person.
resada thanks to the additional information available to the internet access provider.
internet of that person (...).
This means that as long as there is the possibility of carrying out the identification, we will be
We are dealing with personal data.
This consideration is important in relation to the specific case, as remember
that the dynamic IP address is one that changes from time to time, for example
by changes in the network, or by the reboot of the device with which the service provider
services the connection provides, as opposed to the static IP address that
it is always the same. In any case, the company that provides the telecommunications service
cations knows at all times which is the dynamic IP through which the
ce the connection in relation to each of its clients.
If the CJEU considers said dynamic IP address to be personal data, “which changes every
certain time” it is logical to consider that the IMSI, which have a permanent character and
from which is derived, therefore, a better individualization of the user and also his identity.
fication, may also have such consideration.
Likewise, the Judgment of the Provincial Court (SAP) of Barcelona no. 390/2019
of May 30, provides: "However, the identity of the holder of the SIM card, or
which is the same, the identity of the holder of the telephone number associated with said card-
ta, does not constitute traffic data derived from telephone communications or a
data that affects the communication itself. There is no doubt that it is a fact
personal information regarding the privacy of the person covered by art. 18.1 EC.”
Therefore, the SIM card identifies a phone number and this number in turn,
identifies its owner. In this sense, the Judgment of the CJEU in case C -
101/2001(Lindqvist) of 6.11.2003, section 24, Rec. 2003 p. I-12971: «The concept of
"personal data" used in article 3, paragraph 1, of Directive 95/46
understands, in accordance with the definition contained in article 2, letter a), of said Directive
goes "any information about an identified or identifiable natural person". This con-
The concept undoubtedly includes the name of a person next to their telephone number or
other information relating to your working conditions or your hobbies'.
Also, this opinion is singled out in relation to mobile telephony devices
that allow the location of the interested party, in Opinion 13/2011 on services
of geolocation in smart mobile devices (document WP185):

“Smart mobile devices. Smart mobile devices are
inextricably linked to natural persons. There is usually an iden-
direct and indirect certifiability. First of all, the telecommunications operators
cations that provide access to the mobile Internet and through the GSM network
They usually have a record with the name, address and bank details.
numbers for each customer, along with various unique device numbers, such as the
IMEI and IMSI. (…)”

In fact, the clause “2.1.2. SIM card” of the “General conditions of the services
SIMYO Services”, provides: The SIM Card is a card that allows you to identify the service
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/88

service subscribed by the Client and the contracted line to be able to provide the Mobile Service.
The Customer must insert the SIM Card into their mobile device.
In short, both the data processed to issue a duplicate SIM card and the
SIM card (Subscriber Identity Module) that uniquely and uniquely identifies
to the subscriber in the network, they are personal data, and their treatment must be
subject to data protection regulations.
FIFTH: Allegations adduced to the Resolution Proposal.
We proceed to respond to them according to the order exposed by SIMYO:

FIRST: INFRINGEMENT.

Regarding this allegation, we refer to the provisions of the Third FD of this Re-
solution.

SECOND: PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA AND RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TREATMENT
TREATMENT.

We refer to the previous FD.

THIRD: ALLEGATIONS ADUCTED.

1. PREVIOUS ALLEGATION.- EXISTENCE OF A WG ON DUPLICATION OF THE
SIM CARDS LEADED BY THE AEPD.

It alleges a bankruptcy in the legitimate trust deposited in the Agency by the
opening of this procedure.

It is not possible to appreciate the violation of the principle of legitimate expectations, collected
in article 3.1.e) of the LRJSP, a principle that, as the jurisprudence has reiterated,
dence - SSTS of December 28, 2012 (Rec. 273/2009), July 3, 2013
(Rec. 2511/2011), among many others- "it cannot be invoked to create, maintain
have or extend, in the field of public law, situations contrary to the
legal system", being the alleged plaintiff responsible for the infractions
tions appreciated in the initiation agreement, in accordance with article 28.1 of the LR-
JSP.

In relation to this principle, the Judgment of the National High Court (SAN),
of April 29, 2019, RJCA 2019\449, indicates: In accordance with what was declared by the an-
mentioned judgment of July 6, 2012 (RJ 2012, 7760) the principle
of legitimate expectations means that "the public authority cannot adopt
measures that are contrary to the hope induced by the reasonable
stability in the decisions of the former, and based on which the particular
res have made certain decisions. (...) as stated in the sen-
judgment July 3, 2012 (RJ 2012, 11345) (appeal 6558/2010): "(...) The pro-
protection of legitimate expectations does not cover any type of psychological conviction
subjective logic in particular, being only susceptible to protection
that <confidence> on concrete aspects, which is based on signs or
external data produced by the Administration sufficiently conclusive
tes..." But from the very decisions of this Chamber, it must be concluded in a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/88

important and relevant element to configure the legitimate trust, to save
ber, that the concrete action that is expected in that trust is in accordance
to the Legal System (last-cited judgment), that is, it is necessary that the
action of the Administration, with its conduct, induces the company "to
believe that the action that he develops is lawful and adequate in law"
(judgment of July 3, 2012, issued in appeal 6558/2010). In that
In the same sense, it has been declared that it cannot rely on legitimate trust.
tima "the mere expectation of an invariability of circumstances", as
declared in the judgment of March 22, 2012 (appeal 2998/2008), in the
that it is concluded that a behavior cannot be irreversibly maintained
which is considered unfair.

Precisely because it is a generalized and recurring problem,
it was considered opportune to carry out preliminary investigation actions.

In the Fourth Precedent we made reference to the three requirements of
training aimed at SIMYO on different dates.

The SAN of the Contentious-administrative Chamber, sec 1ª, 10-17-07 (rec
180/06) justifies the convenience of the preliminary investigation actions
in relation to sanctioning procedures stating that: “It is about
that due to the seriousness and transcendence that the exercise of the power
sanctioning, since the legal status of someone who is subjected to an experiment
sanctioning tooth, for this single circumstance, can be negatively
mind affected, it is necessary that the decision to initiate the procedure
sanctioning party is founded and based on solid reasons that require such
initiation”.

That is, in order to allow the sanctioning body to know the facts
predictably offending parties, the concurrent circumstances and the people
intervening, it is allowed to carry out said actions or inquiries
prior assessments, insofar as they are necessary and timely to verify, to what extent
point, there is a rational basis to understand that the infringing act occurred, and im-
put it on a certain person.

It should be noted that article 53 of the LOPDGDD determines the "Scope of
research activity”:

 1. Those who develop the research activity may collect the information
precise instructions for the performance of their duties, carry out inspections
nes, require the exhibition or sending of the necessary documents and data,
examine them in the place where they are deposited or where they are
come out the treatments, get a copy of them, inspect the equipment
physical and logical and require the execution of treatments and programs or procedures
Treatment management and support procedures subject to investigation. (…)

Thus, the Agency can carry out the investigations it deems appropriate
(Article 67 of the LOPDGDD), after which you can decide to initiate an ex officio
penalty procedure (article 68 of the LOPDGDD). We are not using
using no pretext, as alluded to by -news in the press-, to justify our

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/88

action, but before the application of the general principles that govern the
act of public administrations, article 3.1. of the LRJSP: The Admi-
Public administrations objectively serve the general interests and act
in accordance with the principles of efficiency, hierarchy, decentralization,
concentration and coordination, with full submission to the Constitution, to the
Law and the Right.

SIMYO reasons that there are other corrective mechanisms, however, he insists
the latter, the LOPDGDD regulates in Title VIII the "Procedures in case of
possible violation of data protection regulations” and specifically, the
Article 64.2 provides that, when the purpose of the procedure is to determine
mination of the possible existence of an infraction, will be initiated by
initiation agreement adopted on its own initiative or as a consequence of re-
claim (in the case analyzed, there have been two claims of
affected).

Likewise, article 109.2 of the LRJSP provides regarding the Authorities
Independent Administrative Companies that will act, in the development of their activity
and for the fulfillment of its purposes, regardless of any interest
business or commercial.

In short, SIMYO's participation in the GT (via ORANGE) does not change
the responsibility now imputed to him. Therefore, due to the fact that
has participated in a WG whose objective is to deal with such a criminal activity
(“SIM Swapping”), does not prevent that once an infraction has been
tion, should be sanctioned.

2. FIRST ALLEGATION.- INCORRECTION AND LACK OF ACCURACY IN THE
APPRECIATIONS ON DUPLICATE FRAUD.

The Agency has at no time stated that the SIM allows access to the
IMEI. We only refer to it for the purpose of clarifying that both one and the other
(IME and IMSI) have the status of personal data in accordance with the definition of the
article 4.1 of the RGPD.

In SIMYO's opinion, no personal information has been accessed other than the
that the supplanters have contributed. The Agency disagrees with this argument,
because, as stated by SIMYO itself in the document “Information and management
SIM cards”, the SIM card “stores all the information about the telephone line
the client's; is the element that supports the line and the telephone number and allows the
terminal access to the network. Also, let us remember that recovery was allowed
of the password to access the Personal Area, which allowed the fraudulent activation
card lens through the “SIM change/duplicate” option, supplanting the
identity of the legitimate owner.

According to LGTEL, electronic communications services are considered
tion of “services of general interest”. Let us not forget that through these services
connectivity is guaranteed to such important services as fixed telephony, mobile
or Internet access. (article 2.1 LGTEL)

Likewise, the obligatory respect for the protection of the personal data of the users
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

55/88

users of this sector (article 41 LGTEL) is also bound by the “obligations
regulations of a public nature” applicable to the electronic communications sector (Tí-
title III, chapter III).

41.1. The operators that exploit public networks of electronic communications
nicas or that provide electronic communications services available to the
public, including public communications networks that support
identification and data collection positives, they must adopt the measures
adequate technical and management measures to preserve safety on the farm.
tion of its network or in the provision of its services, in order to guarantee the
protection of personal data.

Considers that the Agency mixes concepts, insofar as the key refers to
taken by the bank (possession factor) does not have the status of personal data and does not
may be considered a breach of security or confidentiality.

In these strong customer authentication systems, in accordance with article 4.30
of Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November
November 2015 on payment services in the internal market and by which
Directives 2002/65/EC, 2009/110/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010 and Directive 2007/64/EC (hereinafter PSD2 Directive) is repealed,
authentication is based on the use of two or more categorized elements
as knowledge (something that only the user knows), possession (something that only
see the user) and inherence (something that is the user). These elements or factors
are independent of each other and, therefore, the violation of one does not compromise the
reliability of others.

The basis is very simple: the more elements you have to verify the
identity of the user, the more secure the transaction. Now, if those elements
are not applied properly, the operation fails.

Let us remember that, in these cases, the impersonator must first enter
the username and password or password in the application or on the provider's website
payment service or online banking.

Second, to complete the transaction or electronic management you want
perform, the impersonator will receive, normally through an SMS, an alphanumeric code
verification number on the mobile phone linked to that profile. This code has
a limited temporary validity and is of a single use, that is, it is only generated
for that specific transaction and for a limited time. Once you have entered the
verification code, the transaction would be made and completed.

It is assumed that only the user has the mobile device in his possession (it would be the
“something you have”), so when receiving the verification code on said mobile phone,
tion via SMS, your identity would be doubly authenticated.

Therefore, it would not be enough for the impersonators to be able to commit the fraud with co-
know the username and password with which the victim identifies, but it will be
necessary for them to intercept said confirmation code.

Consequently, in order to carry out a transfer, transaction or purchase
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

56/88

consented, that is, to carry out the computer fraud, the cybercriminal de-
You will need to illegitimately access the verification codes associated with each of the
those operations sent by the bank through SMS and the way
The most common way to do this is by obtaining a duplicate of the card.
SIM.

In fact, SIMYO, in the document cataloged as (...) (SIM Swapping)” says:

(…)

Therefore, it is necessary to execute two completely different actions but
complementary to each other.

First of all, you have to obtain the access data for online banking or providers.
payment provider owned by the person to be defrauded, if we focus on the search
of wealth enrichment.

And secondly, it will be necessary to obtain the duplicate of the SIM card owned by
the person to defraud in order to get hold of the confirmation SMS
that the client will receive in his mobile terminal as two-factor authentication. The
Authentication systems are, in accordance with European legislation, procedures that
allow the payment service provider to verify the identity of the user of
a payment service or the validity of the use of a certain payment instrument.
payment, including the use of the user's personalized security credentials.
river (article 4. 29 of the PSD2 Directive).

Well, in the last of these actions -obtaining the duplicate-, it is where
have focused on the facts that are the subject of this proceeding and not on those that occurred in the
first phase, which are outside the responsibility imputed to SIMYO.

He refers to a Guide on Digital Identity and to the responses of the EBA, which questioned
They guarantee the security of SMS to confirm banking operations. Nevertheless,
The security measures applied to online banking operations are not
object of analysis in this file.

3. SECOND ALLEGATION.- UNFOUNDED GENERALIZATION OF CONSE-
NEGATIVE ACCOUNTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ISSUANCE OF THE DUPLICATE.

SIMYO reiterates the allegations made previously, in respect of which the
AEPD reproduces what it already determined in the Resolution Proposal.

We have already indicated that we upheld the allegation that the access
The duplicate does not provide direct access to the contacts stored on the card.
ta original SIM, since, being a physical device, all the
data it contains and you will not be able to recover the lost contacts on the card
replaced SIM, unless they have been stored in environments associated with An-
droid or Apple, in which case the device must be synchronized with a certain
account to be able to restore them.

Regarding access to email, bank and other accounts.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/88

When the criminal modality seeks patrimonial enrichment, it is necessary
take the two steps described above. However, when the
criminal modality seeks other purposes such as impersonating the person
sona on social networks, snatching private messages on social networks, becoming
with emails available on network servers, find out private data
of the person with the purpose of forcing him to execute certain actions... it is
that is, criminal actions constituting other criminal behaviors such as coercion
tions, crimes against privacy, crimes of threats, harassment, insults or slander,
the first action is not necessary, but with the simple obtaining of the duplicate
of the SIM card is enough. It is common for social networks or servers to
mail, in case of forgetting the password opt for fast mechanisms directed
two to obtaining a new password, such as sending a link
to the telephone line offered when the user signed up for it. With which,
when the offender has that telephone line with the duplicate of the card
SIM, you will receive in the terminal the possibility of creating a new password having free
thereby accessing social networks, instant messaging, web browsing,
cloud, emails... of that person, since the user is a relative data-
simple mind to find out.

In short, the rigor of the operator when it comes to monitoring who is the holder of
The SIM card or person authorized by it, who requests the duplicate, should
meet strict requirements. It is not that the information to which
refers is not contained in the SIM card, but that, if in the process of issuing
tion of a duplicate SIM card does not adequately verify the identity of the
applicant, the operator would be facilitating identity theft.

The 2021 Report of the State Attorney General’s Office dedicated to “Internal Crime”
formatica” dedicates in its point 8 a mention to the fraudulent actions online:

“In this brief review of online fraudulent actions, it is necessary to
the mention of behaviors that affect the telecommunications sector
tions in their different variants, and closely related to them, although the
damage is generated in online banking, commonly known as fraud.
of SIM Swapping, which is being used with alarming frequency in
the last years. The technique consists of circumventing the security measures
of banking entities by accessing the alphanumeric codes of
confirmation, single use, generated on the occasion of transactions
electronic and that are ordinarily communicated to clients through
of SMS messages. To do this, criminals previously obtain a
duplicate or a new SIM card in the name of your victim, either requested
taking it from the corresponding operator, simulating its identity,
either using a more elaborate methodology, as in the assumption
object of judicial investigation in Zamora, in which it took advantage with
that purpose a mobile repair shop. once they have
SIM card at your disposal, criminals are guaranteed reception
on your own device of the confirmation code of the fraudulent transaction
dulent and, ultimately, the possibility of making it effective in its be-
benefit, preventing it from being known at that time by the injured party or
harmed. This form of fraud has generated in recent years
multiple police investigations and the initiation of legal proceedings

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/88

specialties in different territories such as A Coruña and Valencia. Its effectiveness and
ease with which criminals achieve their illicit purposes has determined
undermined the adoption by telephone operators of specific measures
prevention measures and strengthening of the guarantees for the issuance of
tas cards or their duplicates.”

In fact, the operator openly admits that the protocols were not complied with.
los, alluding to the deception suffered by the workers. The human factor, the obvious
possibility of making mistakes or being deceived, is one of the most important risks
always to be considered in relation to the determination of safety measures
security. The data controller must take into account human error as a
risk more than likely. Human errors are combated from the approach of
risks, analysis, planning, implementation and control of technical measures and
adequate and sufficient organizational

A criminal may attempt to deceive and cause human error, but it is the measures
adequate security measures who act as brakes.

As far as the criminals have failed to obtain personal data from
SIMYO, so there can be no talk of non-compliance with protection measures,
point out that access to the duplicate of a SIM card that makes its holder identifiable
holder, responds to the definition of personal data in article 4.1) of the RGPD.

For all the above reasons, it has been considered that the procedures for the issuance of
SIM card applications required improvement in order to ensure
the security of customers' personal data effectively and in particular
cular, its custody, in order to prevent unauthorized access.

4. THIRD ARGUMENT. – SUITABILITY AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE MEASURES
PREVENTIVES IMPLEMENTED.

SIMYO considers that its protocols are adequate and communicates a percentage of
minimal risk of ***NUMBER.4% of cases.

As we have indicated before, the Agency has focused not only on the
fact that third parties have overcome the security measures implemented by
SIMYO, but on why they have overcome them; that is, the condition is examined,
characteristics and adequacy of the measures cited to the regulations for the protection of
data and the action of the data controller in this regard.

Regarding the risk approach, it should be noted that the Agency does not intend to require
at no time a zero risk. But the GDPR itself indicates that the measures
must be adequate, according to the foreseeable risk. And the RGPD neither
does not make any reference to the percentages of materialization of the risk from the
which may or may not be considered negligible for the purposes of not considering it
infraction or lack of diligence.

It is considered that it is more than proven that the practice of this type of fraud,
like the one analyzed here, is a frequent practice and, therefore, the operators
must have appropriate measures to ensure that they do not unduly facilitate
mind a SIM card to someone who is not the legitimate owner. Hence, from the analysis of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

59/88

documentation, it is concluded that the measures adopted have not been adequate.
give for this purpose.

SIMYO invokes a breach of the principle of strict liability in the
sanctioning vetoed by our legal system.

In this regard, this Agency has already informed in the Background of the Start-up Agreement and
in the Resolution Proposal, that in addition to the two claims, the SGID
investigated the “fraudulent practices based on the generation of duplicates of
SIM cards without the consent of their legitimate owners in order to access
confidential information for criminal purposes (known as “SIM Swapping”)”
as a consequence of “the news that appeared in the media”, as
as can be deduced from the internal note of the director that appears in the file.

Therefore, the origin of the problem has been thoroughly investigated in order to
find out if there could be a flaw in the privacy protection model.

It is not true, as SIMYO pretends to make it appear, that the
circumstances -exclusively- of two specific cases, since, aside from
these claims, has been directed to analyze whether the technical measures and
organizational arrangements adopted by SIMYO for the issuance of duplicate cards
SIM to the holders of the telephone lines were the appropriate ones to ensure the
mitigation of potential risks to the fundamental rights and freedoms of
line holders.

The circumstances of the two cases in which a claim has been filed with
the AEPD have revealed the insufficiency of security measures
adopted by SIMYO, which has also recognized its revision, improvement and reinforcement, and
a total of ***NUMBER.1 cases (together with the ORANGE brand) during the year 2019.

In addition, it must be taken into account that the seriousness of the proven facts is
reflected in the social alarm generated by the performance of these practices
fraudulent, without determining the number of claims filed.

SIMYO alleges that the overcoming of the security measures by a third party does not
can determine by itself that they are not adequate or sufficient. Y
cites file E/05168/2021, in which a claim was filed after
verify that, despite having access to personal data by
an unauthorized third party, a sufficient level of diligence had been displayed and
adequate even if the security measures implemented had been overcome.

In said file, the circumstances were different. It was a third party
was making a series of queries and requests about the owner's line,
because it had the personal information of the claimant through the link
that had brought them together. In the opinion of this Agency, the information
that can be obtained due to a link with the information that can be obtained by a
cyber criminal. For its part, the operator implemented not only measures to avoid
that such situations occur in general, but also for the case
concrete. And, finally, that claim was closed in application of the principle of
presumption of innocence, which prevents imputing an administrative infraction when

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/88

no evidence or indication has been obtained from which the existence of
infringement. The case being resolved now is different, in which -in addition to
the two claims -, a series of cases reported by the
SIMYO itself, in which access to ***NUMBER.1 has materialized
improperly duplicated SIM cards (along with the ORANGE brand), such as
consequence of lacking the appropriate security measures to avoid it.

SIMYO also cites file E/00536/2016 in which the identity is supplanted
to modify the claimant's data on the ORANGE intranet. And he adds that the
Agency considered that “the misuse or improper use through impersonation of
identity by a third party is not attributable to ORANGE, since it complied with
appropriate security measures" and that "despite the fact that there was illegal access,
The Agency concludes that: “There have been no supporting evidence that
allow attributing to ORANGE a violation of the regulations regarding
data protection, to the extent that it acted diligently” and,
consequently, it archives the procedure”.

In this file, a third party had improperly accessed the services
offered by ORANGE through the website and had made a series of
fraudulent orders of mobile terminals. Therefore, its purpose was to analyze
if the measures that Orange had to identify the person who carried out
the request of the terminals had been enough to understand that there was
acted with reasonable diligence. In this sense, it was considered that ORANGE
used reasonable diligence since -precisely-, it adopted the measures
necessary to identify the person who made the request for the terminals
(when requesting username and password for the procedure) and that, as soon as he became aware of the
claim, canceled the requested orders.

However, we are facing different assumptions, given that in the file
E/00536/2016 only the fraud is specified in the execution of orders
fraudulent mobile terminals, while this procedure is about
provide a duplicate of a SIM card (personal data) to someone who is not its owner, which
which leads, as has been repeatedly explained, to a loss of control of
Personal information.

It also cites file E/2723/2020, in which it states that it is considered that
ORANGE took the appropriate measures. However, the resolution of the aforementioned
record at no time states that the measures taken by ORANGE
were suitable. What it affirms is that: “the lack of evidence has been verified
reasons of the existence of an infraction (...), not proceeding, consequently,
the opening of a sanctioning procedure”. And this under the principle of
presumption of innocence, according to which an infraction cannot be imputed
administrative when no evidence or indications have been obtained of which
results in the existence of an infringement. The fact of affirming that they have not
verified evidence of infringement by ORANGE is very different from affirming
that the measures taken by ORANGE were adequate, which is not the case in
this file.

SIMYO also mentions the file E/06963/2020. In this, the Agency does not
admits to process the claim on claim of payment of invoices of lines

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/88

contracted telephone companies using your personal data without consent, for
understand that the claim in question had been addressed, by blocking ORANGE
contracted services and cancel the claimed debt.

Nor is it stated in that file that the measures available to ORANGE
were suitable. In fact, the aforementioned measures are not even analyzed.

In any case, the aforementioned resolution also provides "All this without
to the detriment that the Agency, applying the investigative and corrective powers
that it holds, can carry out subsequent actions related to the treatment of
information referred to in the claim. This is, without prejudice to which, this Agency
You can investigate the procedure followed in general for this type of
facts. Therefore, even if in that specific case the
claim in question, this does not prevent the Agency from examining the
security measures that SIMYO has in order to prevent a third party from
hire telephone lines in your name without your consent.

For its part, SIMYO also mentions file E/05272/2018, in which
Various workers spread images of clients suspected of having
stolen objects via WhatsApp and, there being no indication that the entity had
breached its obligations in compliance with the principles of integrity and
confidentiality, proceeded to agree to file the proceedings.

In this regard, this Agency wishes to point out that the factual assumption is
considerably different from the one analyzed in this sanctioning procedure. And that,
the fact that in said file no reasonable evidence had been obtained
of the existence of a security breach in the treatment carried out by the
responsible for treatment with respect to the data of its clients, this does not preclude
that in this sanctioning procedure it had been verified that SIMYO had
facilitated access to some SIM card duplicates requested in a
fraudulent, as a result of having security measures that do not
are suitable for this purpose.

SIMYO also mentions file E/07129/2014, in which the AEPD files
the procedure based on, not being possible to determine the identity of the
offender, the principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing a violation
administrative when the existence of a
supporting evidence of the facts that motivate the imputation.

In this regard, it should be noted that, in said file, a claim is made for the
of a purchase on a website made, on your behalf, without the consent of the
claimant. First, the factual assumption is considerably different from the
analyzed now. And regarding the principle of presumption of innocence, we reiterate
that this principle prevents imputing an administrative infraction when it is not
had obtained evidence or indications from which the existence of
infraction, an issue that does occur in the analyzed case.

SIMYO cites file E/08205/2019, in which there was a breach of
security, in which names, surnames and other personal data of
customers, reaching more than 1,300,000 affected. The Agency considered that the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

62/88

defendant entity had the necessary technical and organizational measures
to deal with a breach such as the one that occurred and that it adopted the additional measures
necessary to mitigate the impact and prevent the event from happening again in the future.

It should be noted that this assumption was about a hacker who had obtained
the database of users registered on a website and marketed to
through the deep web. And that during the investigation carried out, it was found that
the security measures that the data controller had were
adequate to deal with an incident of these characteristics and that there
reacted diligently in order to notify, communicate and minimize the
impact and implement reasonable measures to prevent a recurrence
a similar incident in the future. However, in addition to the factual assumption
is considerably different from the assumption analyzed here, the fact that in said
file, it would have been appreciated that the data controller had the
appropriate security measures, this does not prevent this procedure from
sanctioning party it has been proven that SIMYO facilitated access to duplicates of
SIM card, without ensuring the identity of its holders.

Lastly, SIMYO mentions file E/05441/2018, in which the company
claimed suffers a security breach, where the attacker gains access
unauthorized way to a database of the claimed. The Agency indicates that the
gap has violated article 32 of the RGPD. However, it is noted that the
claimed had security measures in place that were, in principle,
adequate. Thus, it is considered that the actions of the defendant as responsible for the
treatment is in accordance with data protection regulations, archiving,
consequently, the performances.

In this case, the attacker gained unauthorized access to a
claimant database. However, it was found that the defendant "had
implemented security measures that, in principle, were adequate to
ensure that personal data is not accessible by third parties and, as
The facts show that as soon as the attack was detected and confirmed by the
entity, a series of security measures were immediately adopted
in order to minimize the risks and extreme the difficulties for the
access and extraction of information. As stated above,
in addition to the assumption of fact being considerably different from the assumption of
analyzed fraud, the fact that in said file it had been appreciated that the
data controller had the appropriate security measures in place to
the specific case, it does not prevent that in this procedure it has been verified that
SIMYO had access routes to obtain the duplicates (kiosks
dispensers or telephone activations) that favored impersonations of
identity.

SIMYO argues that the fact of allowing in certain
situations the use of non-face-to-face channels with no lack of diligence, in
so much so that any route is susceptible to being the object of fraud attempts.

Given this, we must insist that the safety of a procedure is, like that of
a chain, that of its weakest link, and in the case of establishing measures of
stringent security measures on a channel, if equivalent measures are not also established

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

63/88

in the rest of the channels, the global security is being reduced to that of the
minor security.

Regarding the freedom of managers to comply with security measures and
punctual non-compliance in these isolated cases, the imposition of penalties
for an amount of ***NUMBER.7 euros, does not exempt the operator from its obligations
with those in charge of treatment.

From SIMYO's statements the conclusion seems to be drawn that he has no
no power of action to prevent these frauds or impersonations, since
attributes all responsibility to intervening third parties (managers or
impersonators). We do not agree with this conviction.

The concepts of controller and processor are not formal, but
functional and must attend to the specific case. The data controller is
from the moment you decide the purposes and means of treatment, not losing
such a condition the fact of leaving a certain margin of action to the person in charge of the
treatment. This is unquestionably expressed in CEPD Guidelines 07/2020 -
the translation is ours-:

“A data controller is the one who determines the purposes and
the means of treatment, that is, the why and how of the treatment.
I lie. The data controller must decide on both
purposes and means. However, some more practical aspects
of implementation ("non-essential media") can be left in
hands of the treatment manager. It is not necessary that the res-
responsible actually has access to the data being processed
to qualify as responsible.

Likewise, in point 6 it is said (the translation is ours):

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with
the principles established in article 5, paragraph 1, of the RGPD; Y
it's

The data controller must be able to demonstrate compliance
observance of the principles established in article 5, paragraph 1, of the
GDPR

Also in point 8 they establish:

The principle of liability has been further developed
in article 24, which establishes that the controller of the traffic-
will apply the appropriate technical and organizational measures to
guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is carried out in accordance
mited with the RGPD. These measures will be reviewed and updated in
necessary case. (…)

SIMYO must assess the (real) possibility of such a situation occurring and it is his
obligation to implement measures to avoid this type of situation or, at least, the
quickly detect. Consider all these alleged deviations from the
protocols established by SIMYO as mere specific events before which
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

64/88

no additional actions are carried out to avoid them, it means not acting with the
due diligence and it is for this reason that SIMYO is considered to have infringed the
obligation to ensure the confidentiality of personal data in the event
analyzed here, as a consequence of lacking, precisely, the measures of
adequate security for this purpose.

Nor has this Agency required the "full monitoring of employees", as
as SIMYO states. It simply requires that some measures of
security according to the risk that exists that the agents do not comply with the
measures provided by SIMYO, among others.

SIMYO affirms that (…). However, the mere fact of (...), if later they are not going to
use those (...) to check the effective activity of users and adopt
new measures, cannot be considered as a sufficient and adequate measure to
the stated purposes. Let us recall that in the case of complaining party two,
prior to the delivery of the duplicate (08/23/2019 17:48:43), the
affected sent that same day (08/23/2019) at 17:02 an email
addressed to "soporte@simyo.es" warning that someone had called him from
a hidden number posing as a SIMYO operator to obtain their
personal data, and still, I can't prevent the forwarding.

Finally, it must be remembered that this is not the only security measure that
analyzes nor the only one that could be used to ensure the confidentiality of the
personal data in question.

Therefore, in addition to the security measures implemented after the
commission of the Proven Facts and that are valued positively by the
Agency, the infringement is considered proven. For all of the above, the infraction that
imputed is the one provided for in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Lastly, SIMYO indicates that "the nature of the fundamental right of the right to
data protection does not eliminate the need to examine the diligence displayed
by SIMYO, nor the consideration of the tiny percentage of incidents that have been
produced in the SIM card duplication processes. All the activity of the
AEPD is about a fundamental right, so that argument is not
valid to support the proposed sanction.

In this regard, make several nuances.

First of all, the AEPD also performs functions related to the
digital rights (articles 89 to 94 of the LOPDGDD).

Secondly, the exercise of sanctioning power has been carried out
prior administrative procedure, accompanied by due guarantees, and has
led to determine the Facts, prove guilt and grade the response
administrative. This graduation has not been made outside the circumstances
concurrent, but as a manifestation and requirement of the principle of
transparency (article 3.1.c) LRJSP) and right to good administration
(Article 41 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU), the facts

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

65/88

have treated impartially and equitably, motivating at all times the
final decision.

Therefore, the Agency has limited itself to analyzing the circumstances of the case
in order to identify the existence of indications or evidence (or not) of
infringement within its jurisdiction. And as a consequence, it has considered
proven that SIMYO has violated one of the principles relating to the treatment
(article 5.1.f) RGPD).

 5. FOURTH ARGUMENT. – SIMYO'S DILIGENT PERFORMANCE.

He invokes a total defenselessness, because despite the fact that he has managed to prove the
fulfillment of his duty of diligence and being recognized, is subject to a
sanction for an unspecified reason.

The Agency has scrupulously respected the procedure, allowing SIMYO
the exercise of their right to effective protection, since in this procedure
the principles of bilateralism, contradiction and equality of arms have been respected
as required by the reiterated doctrine of the Constitutional Court on the right
to effective judicial protection that (Valga for all Sentence 220/2002 of 25 Nov.
2002, Rec. 5497/1999) “3. This Court has repeatedly stated that the
right to effective judicial protection without defenselessness, which is recognized in art. 24.1
CE, guarantees the right to access the process and resources legally
established in conditions of being able to be heard and exercise the defense of the rights
and legitimate interests in a procedure in which the principles of
bilaterality, contradiction and equality of procedural weapons, (...) (SSTC 167/1992,
from 26 Oct; 103/1993, of March 22; 316/1993, of Oct. 25; 317/1993, of Oct. 25;
334/1993, of Nov. 15; 108/1994, of Apr. 11; 186/1997, of Nov. 10; 153/2001, of 2
Jul.; 158/2001, of July 2).

The STC 86/1997, of 22 Apr., FJ 1, says: "the defenselessness must be material, and not
merely formal, which implies that this formal defect has supposed a
real and effective damage to the defendant in his defense possibilities (STC
43/1989, 101/1990, 6/1992 and 105/1995, among others)”; in this sense, SIMYO, in
at all times he has had knowledge of the facts imputed to him, the possible
infractions of which the facts are constitutive, has been able to allege as to its
law has deemed appropriate and has been able to request the evidence and provide the
documents that he has considered in his defense throughout the investigation of the
sanctioning procedure and, that have been analyzed and taken into consideration
as reflected in the Motion for a Resolution against which he has also
presented the appropriate allegations that are being analyzed in this
Resolution. For this reason, we reject the allegation made.

Likewise, far from SIMYO's claim that the paragraphs transcribed in the
Motion for a Resolution reveals an unsolvable contradiction,
certify that the Agency has scrupulously respected the principles of the
sanctioning procedure and more specifically SIMYO's right to defense.

Indeed, in sanctioning matters the principle of culpability (STC
15/1999, of July 4; 76/1990, of April 26; and 246/1991, of December 19), which
which means that there must be some kind of fraud or guilt.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

66/88

Lack of diligence in implementing security measures at source
adequate constitutes the element of culpability.

Regarding the responsibility of SIMYO, it should be noted that, in general
SIMYO treats the data of its clients under the provisions of article 6.1 b)
of the RGPD, as it is considered a necessary treatment for the execution of a
contract in which the interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of
pre-contractual measures. In other cases, it bases the legality of the treatment on
the bases provided for in article 6.1.a), c) and f) of the RGPD. In this sense, SIMI
has a network of commercials, points of sale and distributors approved to
through a distribution contract to offer SIMYO services. Among
these services offered from their points of sale, is the realization of
SIM card duplicates corresponding to a mobile phone line.

Let us remember that clients -individuals or legal entities- sign contracts with
SIMYO for the provision of certain services that are subject to certain
privacy clauses contained in the Privacy Annex as provided by the
clause 13.1 of the “General Conditions of SIMYO Services”.

Just as SIMYO requires customers to comply with the obligations
specified in the contracts signed with the operator, from this, the
compliance with the obligations that in terms of security and confidentiality
compete.

For example, clause 13.3 of the General Conditions of the Services of
SIMYO says:

(vi) In particular, SIMYO undertakes to comply with the following
obligations:

a. Treat personal data, only, to carry out the provision
of the contracted services, adjusting to the instructions that, in each
moment, indicates, in writing, the Client (unless there is a regulation
that requires complementary treatments, in such a case, SIMYO will inform the
Client of that legal requirement prior to treatment, unless such Right
prohibited for important reasons of public interest).

b. Maintain the duty of secrecy regarding personal data to
which you have access, even after the contractual relationship has ended,
as well as to guarantee that the people in their charge have committed themselves
in writing to maintain the confidentiality of the personal data processed.

c. Guarantee the application of appropriate technical and organizational measures,
taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as
risks of varying likelihood and severity to rights and freedoms
of natural persons, to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the
risk, which in your case includes, among others:

(i) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

67/88

(ii) the permanent confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
treatment systems and services

(iii) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident

(iv) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the
effectiveness of technical and organizational measures to ensure safety
of the treatment.

d. Keep under your control and custody the personal data you access
for the provision of the Service and not to disclose, transfer, or
communicate them in any other way, not even for their conservation to other
people outside the same and the provision of the service. However, the
Customer may expressly authorize SIMYO in writing to
resort to another Treatment Manager (hereinafter, the "Subcontractor").
SIMYO will inform the Customer in the same way of any planned change in
the incorporation or substitution of the Subcontractors, thus giving the Client the
opportunity to oppose such changes.

Regarding due diligence, we acknowledge that SIMYO has acted
subsequently diligently in order to minimize the impact to possible
affected by implementing new security measures to avoid the repetition of
similar incidents in the future.

Certainly, the principle of responsibility established in article 28 of the LRJSP,
provides that: "They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an infraction
natural and legal persons administratively, as well as, when a Law
recognize capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without
legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.”

However, the mode of attribution of liability to legal persons is not
corresponds to the willful or reckless forms of guilt that are
attributable to human behavior. So, in the case of violations
committed by legal persons, although the element of
guilt, this is necessarily applied differently from how it is done
with respect to natural persons.

According to STC 246/1991 "(...) this different construction of the imputability of the
authorship of the infringement of the legal person arises from the very nature of fiction
law to which these subjects respond. The volitional element is lacking in them.
strict sense, but not the ability to break the rules to which they are
subdued.

Capacity for infringement and, therefore, direct blame that derives from the good
protected by the norm that is violated and the need for said
protection is really effective and for the risk that, consequently, it must assume
the legal entity that is subject to compliance with said rule" (in this
sense STS of November 24, 2011, Rec 258/2009).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

68/88

To the above must be added, following the judgment of January 23, 1998,
partially transcribed in the SSTS of October 9, 2009, Rec 5285/2005, and of
October 23, 2010, Rec 1067/2006, that "although the culpability of the conduct
must also be tested, must be considered in order to assume the
corresponding charge, which ordinarily the volitional and cognitive elements
necessary to appreciate it are part of the typical behavior tested, and that
its exclusion requires proof of the absence of such elements, or in its
normative aspect, that the diligence that was required by whoever
alleges its non-existence; not enough, in short, for exculpation in the face of a
typically unlawful behavior the invocation of the absence of fault".

In the cases of complaining parties one and two, the (...) was provided, as
It is stated in the Third and Fourth Proven Facts of this Resolution.

As for the issuance of duplicate is not enough to carry out operations
bank accounts on behalf of the holders, certainly, to complete the scam, it is
It is necessary for a third party to “impersonate the identity” of the owner of the data before the
financial entity. What entails a priori, a treatment outside the principle
of legality because a third party is treating data, since it has access to them, without basis
legal, in addition to the violation of other principles such as
confidentiality.

For this reason, this is a process in which the diligence provided by the
operators is essential to avoid this type of scams and violations of the
GDPR. Diligence that translates into the establishment of adequate measures to
guarantee that the data processing is in accordance with the RGPD.

In short, the violation of the imputed administrative infraction responds to a
precept included within "Principles related to treatment" that requires a
adequate security in the processing of personal data, security that is not
has guaranteed in accordance with the Proven Facts. And this is so, because
provided duplicate SIM cards to third parties other than legitimate
holders of mobile lines, after overcoming by these of the policy of
existing security, which shows a breach of the principle of
confidentiality.

Illegality is the quality that has a conduct previously typical of
violate the legal system and the purposes it pursues. In this way, for
be liable to sanction it is not enough that the conduct fits the description
contained in the type, but with it the objectives are being violated
prosecuted by law. In this regard, the conduct will be unlawful if the
legal right protected by the precept violated.

In this case, the legislation on the protection of personal data pursues the
purpose that those responsible and in charge of the data carry out a treatment
of these having security measures that prevent the illicit use or
fraudulent of them. And this legal right has been injured in the facts
object of this procedure.

Consequently, the allegations made are dismissed, including the lack
of guilt.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

69/88

6. FIFTH ARGUMENT. – LACK OF PROPORTIONALITY OF THE PENALTY
PROPOSAL.

Regarding the breach of the principle of proportionality, the RGPD provides
expressly the possibility of graduation, through the provision of fines
susceptible to modulation, in response to a series of circumstances of each
individual case. Although, this aspect will be analyzed in the Seventh FD.

SIMYO argues that the imposition of a fine for dissuasive purposes is not
justified in the present case, since it was not his will or intention
that these situations occur.

Of course, we do not doubt that the operator has the intention or will in
that these situations occur. But he confuses intentionality with
negligence, this second being the determinant of the commission of the infraction.

The truth is that there has been an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD that
must be sanctioned with a fine in view of the serious circumstances
concurrent individuals. Said fine must meet the characteristics imposed by
Article 83.1 of the RGPD, that is, it must be individualized and effective,
proportionate and dissuasive.

The fine must be dissuasive, so that the offending conduct is not
repeat in the future.

Let us remember that, regarding the imposition of a warning, reprimand, or
the adoption of corrective measures in accordance with article 58 of the RGPD, a fine
deterrent is one that has a genuine deterrent effect. In this regard, the
Judgment of the CJEU, of June 13, 2013, Versalis Spa/Commission, C-511/11,
ECLI:EU:C:2013:386, says:

“94. Regarding, firstly, the reference to the Showa judgment
Denko v Commission, cited above, it should be noted that Versalis interprets it
incorrectly. In fact, the Court of Justice, in pointing out in the
section 23 of said judgment that the dissuasive factor is valued taking
into consideration a multitude of elements and not just the situation
particular to the company in question, he was referring to points 53 to 55 of
the conclusions presented in that case by the Advocate General
Geelhoed, who had pointed out, in essence, that the multiplier coefficient
of a deterrent nature may have as its object not only a 'deterrent
general", defined as an action to discourage all
companies, in general, that commit the infringement in question, but
also a "specific deterrence", consisting of dissuading the defendant
so that you don't break the rules again in the future. For the
Therefore, the Court of Justice only confirmed, in that judgment, that the
Commission was not required to limit its assessment to factors
related solely to the particular situation of the company in
question."

“102. According to settled case law, the objective of the multiplier factor

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

70/88

dissuasive and the consideration, in this context, of the size and the
global resources of the company in question lies in the desired impact
on the aforementioned company, since the sanction should not be insignificant,
especially in relation to the financial capacity of the company (in
this sense, see, in particular, the judgment of June 17, 2010,
Lafarge v Commission, C-413/08 P, ECR p. I-5361, section 104, and the car of 7
February 2012, Total and Elf Aquitaine v Commission, C-421/11 P, para.
82).”

Furthermore, article 29.2 of the LRJSP also configures the function
discouraging or dissuasive of the fines by indicating that “The establishment of
pecuniary sanctions must provide that the commission of offenses typified
is not more beneficial to the offender than compliance with the rules
violated”.

The fine must generate a dissuasive effect with respect to non-compliance and
violation of data protection regulations and never be more
beneficial to the offender than compliance with the rule violated.

On the other hand, SIMYO asserts that it must be considered to determine the amount
of the fine and its proportionality that has not obtained benefit, but has suffered
damage for the commission of the crime.

In addition to the fact that the production of an eventual damage to the person responsible for the
treatment is not considered as a mitigating factor by the regulations of
data protection and this is observed from the simple reading of articles 83.2 of the
RGPD and 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, we remind you again that the purpose of this
procedure focuses on the absence of security guarantees that has allowed
the unauthorized or illicit access of third parties to the personal data of the
interested.

The possible damages that it indicates that it suffers, since it has had to carry out
“internal investigations, make compensation to the complainants and reassess
procedures and protocols”, are caused by their own negligence, since
that, if adequate security measures were in place, such access by
third parties would not have occurred and the subsequent crime would not have materialized.

All those damages related to internal investigations and reevaluation of
procedures and protocols do not cease to be obligations of the
proactive responsibility imposed from risk management, among others
many duties, the maintenance, updating and control and auditing of the
data protection policies in an organization.

The compensations to the claimants also derive from the assignment of the
personal data of those affected to third parties -enabling the subsequent commission of
crimes- which constitutes a fault also attributable to SIMYO, consequence of the
violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Likewise, the administrative fine will be effective because it will lead the company to
apply the technical and organizational measures that guarantee a degree of security
corresponding to the categorization of the type of transaction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

71/88

It is also proportional to the violation identified, in particular its seriousness,
the risks incurred and the financial situation of the company.

Likewise, SIMYO's participation in the GT does not modify the responsibility
now he is charged once the infraction is verified.

FOURTH.- PRINCIPLES RELATED TO TREATMENT.

He refers to the discarding of what he qualifies as "hypothetical assumptions" or "lucubrations" of
the Agency, not reported by any claimant: access to applications, use of re-
social des, etc. Well, these facts have not been considered as circumstances
individuals in the infraction imputed to SIMYO, but they offer a perspective
of possible risks derived from the treatment in question. Risk management assumed
There is a reflection exercise that must be carried out before carrying out an activity
of personal data processing. Its objective is to identify and be able to anticipate
to the possible adverse effects, or unforeseen, that the treatment could have on
the interested. It must allow the person in charge to make the necessary decisions and actions.
necessary to ensure that the treatment meets the requirements of the RGPD and the LO-
PDGDD, guaranteeing and being able to demonstrate the protection of the rights of the inte-
resados.

Nor does the Agency confuse individual access to the SIM card with access to the
mobile terminal nor is it demanding any administrative responsibility in this regard.

Regarding the banking operations carried out and the security of the transactions
tions carried out by financial entities, it should be noted that these entities
are responsible for the treatment of their clients' data, and they are responsible for identi-
obligations than those indicated so far for the operators referred to the fulfillment
compliance with the RGPD and the LOPDGDD, and also those derived from the Royal Decree-law
19/2018, of November 23, on payment services and other urgent measures in matters
financial laugh.

It also invokes article 28.10 of the RGPD, well, from the beginning it must des-
letter that this precept allows the attribution of sanctioning responsibility to the
treatment manager. In the first place, because it clarifies that the provisions of the same
as it is “without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84” (sanctioning regime
dor GDPR). And, above all, because the legal consequence provided for in article 28.10
It is not the sanctioning one, but the one of considering the person in charge as responsible for the treatment.
I lie. The conclusion is logical, since, if the former violates the Regulations “by de-
terminate the means and purposes of the treatment”, should be considered as responsible.

That is not what has happened in this file. In fact, it has not been proven
that actions have been carried out that entailed a "determination of the purposes and
means”, but, according to SIMYO herself, they would have failed to comply with any of the instructions
tions issued by it in the customer identification processes.

Consequently, in no case is it appropriate to invoke article 28.10 RGPD for a
presumed attribution of responsibility to those in charge, which, in addition, implies the
exoneration of the data controller (SIMYO as has been proven
in this file).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

72/88

SIMYO cannot shirk its responsibility for the safety
treatment, hiding behind the breaches of those involved in the management
of duplicate requests.

Regarding the two claims, we have previously clarified that this procedure
procedure encompasses a broader investigation.

Regarding the fact that it has not provided data to third parties, the Security Office
of the Internet user tells us that the “SIM card duplication or SIM card exchange -
SIM Swapping-” “is based on the duplication of our SIM card, and for this, the at-
cantes need some personal information, such as name and surname, DNI, date of
birth, the last 4 digits of our bank account, etc., which have been able to obtain
have by other means, such as phishing or buying from fraudulent online stores.
With this data, the attackers request a duplicate of our SIM, supplanting
our identity with the above data before the operator. Meanwhile, the only thing
What we notice is that our device runs out of mobile coverage, and when we connect
we have a Wi-Fi network, we will begin to receive notifications of movements made
two from our mobile without our consent, such as bank transfers or
online shopping, among others.

An obligation of result is not required, but of activity, but in order to evaluate said
tivity and implementation of measures and their consideration as "adequate" is inevitable.
It is possible to analyze the methods used by the third party to illicitly access the process
of duplication, the safeguards implemented by SIMYO, and inevitably, the resulting
ted.

Regarding the special relevance of the SIM card, we refer to the modern graduation
tivated in the Seventh FD.

Finally, regarding the deployment of security measures, there is no doubt that SI-
MYO has reviewed the protocols to prevent identity theft in these
processes; has transferred the information to those involved in the processing; has introduced
do improvements after knowing certain vulnerabilities; including penalties for their
breach. However, we do not share the fact that it has been carried out
an appropriate and adequate deployment of security measures, in the terms of art.
article 32 of the RGPD.

It is not enough to have a security policy, but to adapt it to mitigate the
risks. The continuous advancement of technology and the evolution of treatments propitiate
cyan the continuous appearance of new risks that must be managed.

The risk approach and the flexible risk model imposed by the RGPD -based on
of the double configuration of security as a principle relating to the treatment and
an obligation for the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment - does not impose in any
In any case, the infallibility of the measures, but their constant adaptation to a risk,
that, as in the case examined is true, probable and not negligible, high and with
a very significant impact on the rights and freedoms of citizens.

FIFTH.- SECURITY OF TREATMENT.

An infringement of article 32 of the RGPD is not imputed.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

73/88

SIXTH.- GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE IMPOSITION OF THE ADMI-
NISTRATIVE.

Object of analysis in the Seventh FD of this Resolution.
SIXTH: Principles relating to treatment.

Considering the right to the protection of personal data as the right
natural persons to have their own data, it is necessary to determine the
principles that make it up.

In this sense, article 5 RGPD, referring to the "Principles related to treatment"
has:
1. The personal data will be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawful
trust, loyalty and transparency»);
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed further.
riorly in a manner incompatible with said purposes; (...);
c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that are processed ("data minimization");
d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; All reasonable steps will be taken
entitled to delete or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);
e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data;
(…)
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").
The principle of data security requires the application of technical or organizational measures.
appropriate organizational measures in the processing of personal data to protect said
data against access, use, modification, dissemination, loss, destruction or accidental damage
dental, unauthorized or illegal. In this sense, security measures are key to
when guaranteeing the fundamental right to data protection. It is not possible the
existence of the fundamental right to data protection if it is not possible to guarantee
the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our data.

In line with these provisions, recital 75 of the RGPD establishes:
serious and probable risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
variable ity, may be due to the processing of data that could cause damage
and physical, material or immaterial damages, particularly in cases in which the
treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, identity theft or
fraud, financial loss, reputational damage, loss of confidentiality of
data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization or
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

74/88

any other significant economic or social damage; in the cases in which
sees the interested parties of their rights and freedoms or prevents them from exercising control over
about your personal data; in cases in which the personal data processed reveals
ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religion or philosophical beliefs,
militancy in trade unions and the processing of genetic data, data related to health or
data on sexual life, or convictions and criminal offenses or security measures
related ity; in cases in which personal aspects are evaluated, in particular
the analysis or prediction of aspects related to performance at work, situation
financial, health, personal preferences or interests, reliability or behavior,
situation or movements, in order to create or use personal profiles; In the cases
in which the personal data of vulnerable persons, in particular children, are processed; either
in cases where the processing involves a large amount of personal data
and affect a large number of stakeholders.
Likewise, recital 83 of the RGPD establishes: In order to maintain the security and
avoid that the treatment violates the provisions of this Regulation, the controller
responsible or the person in charge must evaluate the risks inherent to the treatment and apply mea-
given to mitigate them, such as encryption. These measures must guarantee a level of security
adequate security, including confidentiality, taking into account the state of the tech-
uniqueness and the cost of its application with respect to the risks and the nature of the data
personal to be protected. When assessing the risk in relation to the safety of
the data, the risks that derive from the treatment of the data must be taken into account.
personal data, such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication
or unauthorized access to said data, which is particularly likely to cause damage
and physical, material or immaterial damages.

We must attend to the unique circumstances of the two claims presented.
through which it can be verified that, from the moment in which the loss
impersonating sona performs the SIM replacement, the victim's phone remains
without service, passing control of the line to the supplanting persons, having
facilitated, by SIMYO, in addition, (...). Consequently, their powers of
disposal and control over your personal data, which constitute part of the content
of the fundamental right to data protection as stated by the Constitutional Court
in Judgment 292/2000, of November 30, 2000 (FJ 7). By way of
that, by obtaining a duplicate of the SIM card, it is possible under certain circumstances
circumstances, access to contacts or applications and services that have
as a password recovery procedure, sending an SMS with a code to
be able to change passwords. In short, they may supplant the identity of the
affected, being able to access and control, for example: email accounts
co; bank accounts; applications like WhatsApp; social networks, such as Facebook
or Twitter, and a long etc. In short, once the password has been changed
by impersonators lose control of their accounts, applications and services.
cios, which is a great threat.
Hence, the security and confidentiality of personal data are considered
essential to prevent data subjects from suffering negative effects.
In line with these provisions, recital 39 RGPD provides: All treatment
The processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For natural persons you must-
make it absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, consulted or attempted to
otherwise personal data concerning them, as well as the extent to which said
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

75/88

data is or will be processed. The principle of transparency requires that all information and
communication regarding the processing of said data is easily accessible and easy
to understand, and that simple and clear language is used. This principle refers to
particular to the information of the interested parties on the identity of the person in charge of the
treatment and the purposes of the same and to the information added to guarantee a treatment
fair and transparent treatment with respect to the natural persons affected and their right
right to obtain confirmation and communication of personal data concerning them.
nan that are subject to treatment.
Natural persons must be aware of the risks, standards, safeguards,
guards and the rights related to the processing of personal data as well as the
way to enforce your rights in relation to the treatment. In particular, the fi-
specific terms of the processing of personal data must be explicit and legitimate.
mos, and must be determined at the time of collection. The personal data of
must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which
be treated. This requires, in particular, ensuring that it is limited to a strict minimum
its retention period. Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing
treatment could not reasonably be achieved by other means. To ensure that
personal data is not kept longer than necessary, the person responsible for the
treatment must establish deadlines for its suppression or periodic review. They must to-
take all reasonable steps to ensure that they are rectified or deleted
personal data that is inaccurate. Personal data must be treated in a
way that guarantees adequate security and confidentiality of the personal data
purposes, including to prevent unauthorized access or use of such data and the
equipment used in treatment.
In short, it is the data controller who has the obligation to integrate the
necessary guarantees in the treatment, with the purpose of, under the principle of
proactive responsibility, comply and be able to demonstrate compliance, at the same
while respecting the fundamental right to data protection.
Recital 7 provides: (...) Individuals must have control of their
own personal data. (…)
The facts declared previously proven, are constitutive of a violation
of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD after providing SIMYO duplicates of the SIM card to third parties
people who are not the legitimate owners of the mobile lines and even modify the
personal data -email-, after overcoming by the supplanted people-
of the security policies implemented by the operator, which shows an in-
compliance with the duty to protect customer information.
This unauthorized access to the SIM card is decisive for the actions
developed by the supplanting people whose purpose is to obtain
have an economic benefit (there are calls to financial entities and the
of banking operations in both claims), since the impersonator takes advantage
the length of time that elapses until the user detects the fault on the line,
contacts the operator, and this detects the problem, to carry out operations
fraudulent bank transactions after accessing the online banking passwords of the legitimate subscriber
I swim.

The issuance and delivery of the duplicate to an unauthorized third party implies for those affected
two the loss of control of your personal data. Therefore, the value of that data
personal, integrated in a physical support -SIM card-, is real and unquestionable, reason
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

76/88

for which SIMYO have a legal duty to ensure your safety, just as it would
with any other company assets.

It is worth mentioning ruling 292/2000, of November 30, of the Constitutional Court
tutional, which configures the right to data protection as an autonomous right
and independent that consists of a power of disposition and control over the data
personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these data to provide
to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what data this third party may collect, and
which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data and for what,
being able to oppose that possession or use. Thus, in accordance with the legal foundations
cos 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the judgment of the high court:

"4. Without needing to explain in detail the wide possibilities that the
information technology offers both to collect and to communicate personal data or
the undoubted risks that this can entail, given that a person can
ignore not only what data that concerns you that is collected
in a file but also if they have been transferred to another and for what purpose, it is
enough to indicate both extremes to understand that the right
fundamental to privacy (art. 18.1 CE) does not provide by itself a protection
sufficient in the face of this new reality derived from technological progress.
However, with the inclusion of the current art. 18.4 CE the constituent put of
highlighted that he was aware of the risks that the use of the
informatics and entrusted to the legislator the guarantee of both certain rights
fundamental as the full exercise of the rights of the person. That is,
incorporating a guarantee institute "as a form of response to a new
form of concrete threat to the dignity and rights of the person", but
which is also, "in itself,
 a fundamental right or freedom
(STC 254/1993, of July 20, FJ 6). Concern and purpose of the constituent
which is evident, on the one hand, if one takes into account that from the draft
The constitutional text already included a section similar to the current art. 18.4 EC
and that this was later expanded by accepting an amendment to
include your final paragraph. And more clearly, on the other hand, because if in the debate
in the Senate some doubts were raised about the need for this section
of the precept given the recognition of the rights to privacy and honor
in the initial section, however, they were dissipated by highlighting that
these rights, in view of their content, did not offer sufficient guarantees
against the threats that the use of informatics could entail for the
protection of privacy. So the constituent wanted to guarantee
through the current art. 18.4 CE not only a specific scope of protection but
also more suitable than the one that could offer, by themselves, the rights
fundamentals mentioned in section 1 of the precept.
5. (…)
Well, in these decisions the Court has already declared that art. 18.4 EC
contains, under the terms of the STC 254/1993, a guarantee institute for the
rights to privacy and honor and the full enjoyment of the other rights
of citizens which, furthermore, is in itself "a right or freedom
fundamental, the right to liberty against potential aggressions against
dignity and freedom of the person arising from an illegitimate use of
mechanized data processing, what the Constitution calls 'informatics'",
what has been called "computer freedom" (FJ 6, later reiterated in the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

77/88

SSTC 143/1994, FJ 7, 11/1998, FJ 4, 94/1998, FJ 6, 202/1999, FJ 2). The
guarantee of the private life of the person and his reputation today have a
positive dimension that exceeds the scope of the fundamental right to
privacy (art. 18.1 CE), and that translates into a right of control over the
personal data. The so-called "computer freedom" is like this
right to control the use of the same data inserted in a program
(habeas data) and includes, among other aspects, the opposition of the
citizen to certain personal data being used for purposes
other than the legitimate one that justified obtaining it (SSTC 11/1998, FJ
5, 94/1998, FJ 4).
This fundamental right to data protection, unlike the right to
privacy of art. 18.1 CE, with whom it shares the goal of offering efficient
effective constitutional protection of private personal and family life, attributes to
holder a bundle of powers consisting for the most part of the legal power
dictate of imposing on third parties the performance or omission of certain behaviors
ments whose specific regulation must be established by the Law, the one that conforms
to art. 18.4 CE must limit the use of information technology, either by developing the right
fundamental right to data protection (art. 81.1 CE), either regulating its exercise
cycle (art. 53.1 CE). The peculiarity of this fundamental right to protection
tion of data regarding that fundamental right as related as that of
intimacy lies, then, in its different function, which therefore entails
that also its object and content differ.
6. The function of the fundamental right to privacy of art. 18.1 CE is that of
protect against any invasion that may be carried out in that area of the
personal and family life that the person wishes to exclude from the knowledge of others and
of the interference of third parties against their will (for all
STC 144/1999, of July 22, FJ 8). Instead, the fundamental right to
data protection seeks to guarantee that person a power of control
about your personal data, about its use and destination, with the purpose of preventing
its illicit and harmful traffic for the dignity and rights of the affected. In the end, the
right to privacy allows certain data of a person to be excluded from the
knowledge of others, for this reason, and this Court has said so
(SSTC 134/1999, of July 15, FJ 5; 144/1999, FJ 8; 98/2000, of April 10,
FJ 5; 115/2000, of May 10, FJ 4), that is, the power to protect his life
deprived of unwanted publicity. The right to data protection
guarantees individuals a power of disposition over these data. Is
guarantee imposes on the public powers the prohibition that they become
sources of that information without due guarantees; and also the duty of
prevent risks that may arise from improper access or disclosure
of said information. But that power of disposal over the data itself
nothing is worth if the affected party does not know what data is being
owned by third parties, who owns them, and for what purpose.
Hence the singularity of the right to data protection, since, on the one hand,
Its object is broader than that of the right to privacy, since the right
fundamental to data protection extends its guarantee not only to privacy
in its dimension constitutionally protected by art. 18.1 EC, but to
which this Court has sometimes defined in broader terms as
sphere of the goods of the personality that belong to the realm of life
privacy, inextricably linked to respect for personal dignity
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

78/88

(STC 170/1987, of October 30, FJ 4), as the right to honor, cited
expressly in art. 18.4 CE, and also, in a very broad expression of the
art itself 18.4 CE, to the full exercise of the rights of the person. The right
fundamental to data protection extends the constitutional guarantee to
Those of these data that are relevant to or have an impact on the
exercise of any rights of the person, whether or not they are
constitutional and whether or not related to honor, ideology, privacy
personal and family property to any other constitutionally protected property.
In this way, the object of protection of the fundamental right to protection
of data is not reduced only to the intimate data of the person, but to any
type of personal data, whether intimate or not, whose knowledge or use by
third parties may affect their rights, whether fundamental or not, because their
object is not only individual intimacy, for this is the protection that the
art. 18.1 CE grants, but personal data. Therefore,
also reaches those public personal data, which by the fact of
be, if they are accessible to the knowledge of anyone, they do not escape the power of
disposition of the affected party because this is guaranteed by his right to the protection of
data. Also for this reason, the fact that the data is of a personal nature does not mean
that only those related to the private or intimate life of the person have protection.
person, but the protected data are all those that identify or
allow the identification of the person, being able to serve for the preparation of
their ideological, racial, sexual, economic or any other profile, or that
serve for any other use that in certain circumstances
constitutes a threat to the individual.
But the fundamental right to data protection also has a
second peculiarity that distinguishes it from others, such as the right to privacy
personal and family of art. 18.1 EC. This peculiarity lies in its content,
since unlike the latter, which confers on the person the legal power
to impose on third parties the duty to refrain from any interference in the
privacy of the person and the prohibition of making use of what is thus known
(SSTC 73/1982, of December 2, FJ 5; 110/1984, of November 26, FJ
3; 89/1987, of June 3, FJ 3; 231/1988, of December 2, FJ 3; 197/1991,
of October 17, FJ 3, and in general the SSTC 134/1999, of
July, 144/1999, of July 22, and 115/2000, of May 10), the right to
data protection attributes to its holder a bundle of powers consisting of
various legal powers whose exercise imposes legal duties on third parties,
that are not contained in the fundamental right to privacy, and that serve the
capital function performed by this fundamental right: to guarantee the
person a power of control over their personal data, which is only possible
and effective imposing on third parties the aforementioned duties to do. Namely:
the right to require prior consent for the collection and use of
personal data, the right to know and be informed about the destination and use
of these data and the right to access, rectify and cancel said data. In
definitively, the power of disposal over personal data (STC 254/1993,
FJ 7).
7. From all that has been said, it follows that the content of the fundamental right to
Data protection consists of a power of disposal and control over the
personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what this
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

79/88

third party collect, and that also allows the individual to know who owns those
personal data and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These
powers of disposal and control over personal data, which constitute
part of the content of the fundamental right to data protection is
legally specified in the power to consent to the collection, obtaining and
access to personal data, their subsequent storage and treatment,
as well as its possible use or uses, by a third party, be it the State or an individual.
And that right to consent to the knowledge and treatment, computerized or not, of
personal data, requires as essential complements, for a
On the other hand, the power to know at all times who has that data
personal information and to what use it is subjecting them, and, on the other hand, the power to oppose
to that possession and uses.
Finally, they are characteristic elements of the constitutional definition of the right
fundamental to the protection of personal data the rights of the affected to
consent to the collection and use of your personal data and to know of the
themselves. And they are indispensable to make this content effective
recognition of the right to be informed of who owns your data
and for what purpose, and the right to object to such possession and use
requiring the appropriate party to put an end to the possession and use of the
data. In other words, requiring the owner of the file to inform him of what data
owns on his person, accessing their appropriate records and seats, and
what fate they have had, which also reaches potential assignees; and, in his
case, require him to rectify or cancel them.” (the underline of all
the paragraphs is ours)

Therefore, any action that involves depriving the person of those faculties
disposition and control over your personal data, constitutes an attack and a vulnerability
ration of their fundamental right to data protection.
SEVENTH: General conditions for the imposition of the administrative fine.

Article 83.2 of the RGPD provides that:

Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in art.
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine
and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages and losses.
who have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the data controller or data processor.
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have been applied

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

80/88

under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment-
I lie;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy
gave the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in re-
relationship with the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and k) any other factor
aggravating or mitigating circumstance applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as the benefits
financial gains obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
through the infringement.

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD provides
ne:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established
two in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
cough.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

81/88

h) Submission by the person in charge or in charge, on a voluntary basis,
voluntary, to mechanisms of alternative resolution of conflicts, in those su-
positions in which there are controversies between them and any interested party.
(…)”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction
as responsible for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, it proceeds
graduate the fine that corresponds to impose, prior assessment of the allegations
adduced for the purposes of a correct application of the principle of proportionality.

On the one hand, the following aggravating factors have been taken into account:

- Article 83.2.a) GDPR:



The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account
the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation that
concerned as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of
damages that they have suffered:

The violation of the principle of article 5.1.f) RGPD entails an im-
important for the rights of those affected.

The Agency considers that the nature of the infringement is very serious
since it entails a loss of disposition and control over the data
personal. Allows criminals to steal identity through se-
after obtaining a duplicate of the number of the telephone number
your SIM card. After the entry into force of the PSD2 Directive, the telephone
mobile comes to have a very important role in making online payments
ne to be needed for transaction confirmation, and converts to
this device -and by extension to the SIM card-, with the clear objective of
cyber criminals.

Contrary to what SIMYO alleges, the seriousness of the infringement focuses on
the loss of disposal and control over the personal data of the
operator's customers due to the absence of appropriate security guarantees.
pious. The AEPD does not focus on previous or subsequent actions of
third parties, but in the actions or omissions of SIMYO that have made possible
do unauthorized or illicit access to personal data of its customers
to third parties due to the absence of appropriate security guarantees,
which has been duly proven.

In all likelihood, if SIMYO had had safety measures in place,
appropriate security this transfer of personal data to third parties is not
would have produced

It is true that third parties have not accessed the mobile phones of the
interested, but yes to your personal data, as it is put in
manifest in this sanctioning procedure.

Likewise, it is not up to the AEPD to determine what the specifics are.
these security measures to be implemented, but to the controller
treatment, in-depth knowledge of its organization, treatments, vulnerability
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

82/88

nerabilities and the security measures required to make effective
vo the principle of integrity and confidentiality.
Regarding the level of damages suffered, it is considered high.
He argues that it is not feasible to try to hold SIMYO responsible for
situations related to the use of duplicate cards that derive
of information security incidents with which SIMYO does not have
no relationship.
However, the proven facts show that after the issuance of the
duplicates, fraudulent banking operations have been carried out that
They happen in a short space of time. By duplicating the
SIM cards, would-be impersonators gain control of the line
line of the subscriber and specifically the reception of SMS addressed to the legitimate
subscribed to carry out on-line operations with banking entities
Planting your personality.
SIMYO is not responsible for customer identification policies
established by banks. However, it is also true
to, that if SIMYO ensured the identification and delivery procedure
of the duplicate SIM card, it could not even activate the system of
Verification of banking entities. The scammer behind con-
follow the activation of the new SIM, it takes control of the phone line.
thus being able to then carry out fraudulent banking operations.
slow accessing the SMS that banking entities send to their
clients as confirmation of the operations they execute. This is-
sequence of facts revealed in the international claims
put in place generates a series of serious damages that should be
be taken into account in an impact assessment relating to the pro-
data protection (considering 89, 90, 91 and article 35 of the RGPD). In
definitively, from the moment a duplicate is delivered to a person
other than the owner of the line or authorized person, the customer loses the
control of the line and the risks, damages, multiply. Ade-
Moreover, the events occur with an overwhelming immediacy. Concrete-
mind in the case of complaining party one, the activation of the duplicate
occurs at 9:15 p.m. on August 14, 2019 and at 9:35 p.m.
hours of that same day, he receives two informative emails about the contra-
taking out an orange loan and opening a payroll account. In
In the case of complaining party two, the activation of the duplicate occurred
ce at 5:48 p.m. on August 23, 2019. At 6:24 p.m.
that same day, SIMYO proceeds to its effective blocking and deactivation,
however, enough time elapses to effectively usurp
activates the identity of the affected party, modify and control the passwords of the bank
online account with which the legitimate subscriber operates and make a transfer
large amount -30,000 euros-, in his name. Therefore, it constitutes
a general obligation in accordance with data protection regulations,
that SIMYO has technical and organizational measures that are
appropriate for the correct identification of its clients and that guarantee
provide adequate security when safeguarding personal data
of the users.
As has been shown, the damages and losses have been assessed.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

83/88

prices, at least in relation to those cases in which they have been
laid claims by interested parties.
Regarding the allegations made regarding that there is no impu-
damages or consider them as aggravating, we must
mean that unauthorized or illicit access is a harm in itself
of the personal data of an interested party by a third party when the
fundamental right to the protection of personal data.
In short, the application of the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the RGPD is
refers to all these previously analyzed aspects, positions of
manifest in the Proven Facts, in the social alarm generated by the
carrying out these fraudulent practices and due to the very high probability
materialization of the risk. And this, because what has been analyzed in the
present sanctioning procedure is the data protection policy
implemented by the data controller as a result of various re-
claims filed with the AEPD.

- Article 83.2.b) GDPR:



C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

Intentionality or negligence in the infringement:
He argues that his conduct must be considered diligent and act this
made as a mitigation of the sanction.
Although the Agency considers that there was no intent on the part of
SIMYO, concludes that he was negligent in not ensuring a procedure
that guarantees the protection of the personal data of its clients.
Thus, a socially harmful result is produced that requires
the establishment of additional guarantees in the security policy
implemented so far.
Deny the concurrence of negligent action on the part of SIMYO
would be equivalent to acknowledging that their conduct -by action or omission- has been
diligent. Obviously, we do not share this perspective of the facts,
since the lack of due diligence has been proven. A
large company that processes the personal data of its
customers on a large scale, systematically and continuously, must take extreme
care in fulfilling its obligations in terms of protection
tion of data, as established by jurisprudence. It is very illus-
tive, the SAN of October 17, 2007 (rec. 63/2006), based on
that these are entities whose activity is accompanied by continuous
processing of customer data, indicates that “…the Supreme Court has
ne understanding that there is recklessness whenever a
legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with
the due diligence. And in assessing the degree of diligence,
weighing especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no
doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the
current is of constant and abundant handling of data of a personal nature.
sonal
 
 must insist on rigor and exquisite care to adjust to
 
legal provisions in this regard.
Also, contrary to SIMYO's assertions, when the
AEPD indicates that the operator "was negligent in not ensuring a pro-
procedure that guarantees the protection of the personal data of its
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

 

84/88

customers”, does not impose strict liability regarding the measures
give security This is so, because this statement must be put into
its context: in a violation of the principle of confidentiality as
as a result of negligence in implementing the measures
appropriate to which article 5.1.f) of the RGPD refers to to earn
guarantee that confidentiality. It is undeniable that unauthorized access
or illicit of the personal data of the affected party has been produced, derived,
in this case due to a lack of adequate security measures.

- Article 83.2.d) GDPR:



Degree of responsibility of the person in charge:
Tall.
He argues that they have adopted many measures and improvements in the procedure.
issue date of the duplicate SIM card.
Responsibility for vulnerabilities in the implanted procedure
ted for the issuance of the SIM corresponds to SIMYO.
Those in charge of the treatment -in its case-, can only treat the damages
cough following the documented instructions of the person in charge.
The personal data that SIMYO collects both for contracting the
service and during its provision are your responsibility and must
be treated in a way that allows the proper development of the relationship
between the parties, guaranteeing at all times the application
tion of the principles of article 5 RGPD. And this is independent of
that the treatment is carried out by itself or through a person in charge of
treatment (“agents, who breached the security policy of SIM-
I and the measures it imposed”).
In this sense, article 28.3.h) of the RGPD establishes instruments of
continuous supervision by the person in charge of the treatment when indicating
that the person in charge “will make available to the person in charge all the information
necessary to demonstrate compliance with the obligations established
established in this article, as well as to allow and contribute to the
performance of audits, including inspections, by the responsible
saber or another auditor authorized by said person in charge.
Regarding the performance of audits as an ideal means for
the data controller continuously supervises the processor
of treatment, CEPD Guidelines 07/2020 establish that:
“99. The obligation to use only data processors
"that provide sufficient guarantees" contained in article 28,
section 1 of the GDPR is a continuous obligation. It doesn't end in the mo-
moment in which the controller and the person in charge of the treatment celebrate a
contract or other legal act. Instead, the controller must, at intervals
appropriate, verify the guarantees of the processor, including through autho-
reports and inspections when appropriate". (The translation is ours).

- Article 83.2.g) GDPR:



C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

Categories of personal data affected by the breach:
He argues that the SIM card does not allow identity theft, but rather
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

85/88

that serves only for the reception of the confirmation keys of
banking operations in certain cases.
SIMYO claims that only basic data of the
customers and that the SIM card is not personal data, since
We scam this argument in the Fourth FD.
The Agency considers unauthorized access to a duplicate card
SIM is considered particularly serious as it enables spoofing
of identity. Hence, we consider the stolen data as
sensitive nature.
The delivery of a duplicate SIM in favor of a third party other than the lender
legitimate owner is considered particularly serious since it makes it impossible to
sending or receiving calls, SMS, or access to data service,
which happens to be in the hands of the supplanting person.
Obtained the duplicate, the path to the applications and ser-
vices that have as a key recovery procedure the en-
sending an SMS with a code to be able to change the passwords. In
In addition, it enables identity theft.
It is not about the personal data that is required for the issuance of the du-
plicate of the card, but of the card itself as personal data associated
ciated to a telephone line owned by a user, which is obtained with the
purpose of supplanting your identity to obtain access -among others- to
banking applications or electronic commerce, with the purpose of in-
interact and perform operations on your behalf, authenticating through
a username and password previously taken from that user, as well
as with the two-factor authentication when receiving the confirmation SMS.
mation in your own mobile terminal where you will have inserted the SIM card
duplicated.
In this sense, bringing up again the aforementioned SAP of Barcelo-
na no. 390/2019 of May 30.
And therefore, the claim that it be considered as
extenuating.

- Article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD:



Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of
processing of personal data:
The development of the business activity carried out by SIMYO requires
re continuous and large-scale processing of the personal data of
the clients. according to the number of mobile voice lines reported
called in the "NINETEENTH Background", which positions SIMYO
as one of the three largest telecommunications operators
of our country.
It is not that in the event of any infraction committed by the merchant,
will apply this aggravating factor, but that, in the circumstances
individual of the case, its application proceeds.

On the other hand, the following mitigating factors are taken into consideration:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

86/88

- Article 83.2.c) RGPD:



Measures taken by the person responsible to mitigate the damages
suffered by the interested parties:
positive.
(…)

- Article 83.2.f) GDPR:



Degree of cooperation with the control authority:
Tall.
The Agency considers that SIMYO has cooperated favorably with
research, providing a response to the requirements and training
command part of the GT (through ORANGE), which is valued
positive.

- Article 76.2.c) LOPDGDD:



The benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the
infringement.
He claims that he is one more victim of the criminal network.
This Agency does not consider that it has obtained an economic benefit
beyond receiving the price of the cost fixed for the issuance of the du-
SIM card applications.

- Article 76.2.h) LOPDGDD:



Submission to conflict resolution mechanisms.
Various telecommunications operators, including
SIMYO, signed a Protocol with AUTOCONTROL that, without
prejudice to the powers of the AEPD, provides mechanisms
for the private settlement of disputes relating to the protection of
data in the field of contracting and advertising services
electronic communications, dated September 15, 2017.
Protocol whose effective application must be considered as
extenuating.

The allegations made in relation to article 83.2.a), b), d) and g) are rejected.
of the RGPD and article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD, in the terms previously stated.
posts.

As has been proven in the instruction of this procedure, the imposition of
the sanction derives from Proven Facts that constitute a very serious infraction
of the GDPR. The facts are imputed to SIMYO as responsible for the treatment of the
issuance of duplicate SIM cards, therefore, should be strongly rejected
the statement made regarding that "you cannot take into consideration assumptions
in fact not examined in the present procedure, where the
derived responsibilities and the treatments and conduct, therefore, said su-
posts cannot be used to harm, in any case, SIMYO, as long as
No infraction or non-compliance has been proven”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

87/88

Finally, it requests that the fine be replaced by "the adoption of corrective measures
measures contemplated in the aforementioned article 58, consisting of the warning or
treatment to the data controller and the imposition of the obligation to adopt
measures to carry out the treatments “in a certain way and within a certain
specified term”.

This request must also be dismissed. Understanding the corrective system
provided for in the RGPD that SIMYO proposes is wrong.

Article 83.2 of the RGPD provides that "Administrative fines will be imposed, in
depending on the circumstances of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for
the measures contemplated in article 58, section 2, letters a) to h) and j)”.

The same provision is included in article 58.2 of the RGPD regarding the powers
corrective actions of the control authorities, in which section i) provides: "impose a
administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures
mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each particular case.
lar”.

In the same sense, recital 148 of the RGPD states that: “In order to reinforce the
application of the rules of this Regulation, any infringement of this must be
be punished with sanctions, including administrative fines, in addition to
appropriate measures imposed by the supervisory authority under this Regulation.
regulation, or in substitution of these”.

This means that the administrative fines are imposed additionally, that is, they are
imposes a fine in addition to one of the corrective measures provided for in article
58.2. letters a) to h) and j) of the GDPR. Or, that the administrative fines are imposed by way of
substitute for the aforementioned corrective measures, that is, a substitute fine is imposed.
going to one or several of those measures. Thus, the fine is not replaced by one of the
corrective measures, if any, but rather the opposite.

Furthermore, recital 148 of the RGPD provides that: “In the event of infringement
minor, or if the fine likely to be imposed constituted an undue charge.
provided for a natural person, instead of a sanction by means of a fine,
put on a warning”. This provision entails the necessary imposition of a
fine in any case, in addition to other corrective measures that may additionally be
establish, if the infringement is considered serious for the purposes of the Regulation in
attention to the circumstances established in the aforementioned recital and in article 83 of the
GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the director of the
AEPD, RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ORANGE ESPAÑA VIRTUAL, S.L., with NIF B85057974, for
an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and
classified as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.a) of the LO-
PDGDD, an administrative fine amounting to 70,000'00 euros (seventy thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

88/88

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ORANGE ESPAÑA VIRTUAL, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that she must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of
article 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment term established in article
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to article 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17,
December, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the penalized person and the number of
proceeding that appears in the heading of this document, in the restricted account
nº ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the AEPD in the bank
caria CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in period
executive.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the payment
It will be valid until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within one month from
tar from the day following the notification of this resolution or appeal directly
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Audien-
National Authority, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
Fourth additional section of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm resolution may be suspended in administrative proceedings if the interest
sado expresses its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the AEPD, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the Agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in article 16.4 of the LPACAP. You must also transfer to the
Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious appeal
so-administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the notification
cation of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-26102021

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

