 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDPB-EDPS 
Joint  Opinion 
04/2021  on  the  Proposal  for  a 
Regulation  of 
the  European 
Parliament and of the Council on 
a  framework  for  the  issuance, 
verification  and  acceptance  of 
interoperable 
certificates  on 
vaccination, testing and recovery 
to 
free  movement 
during  the  COVID-19  pandemic 
(Digital Green Certificate) 

facilitate 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         1 

31 March 2021 

Version 1.1 

 

Version history 

Version 1.1  08 April 2021 

Minor editorial changes 

Version 1.0  31 March 2021 

Adoption of the Joint Opinion 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

5.1 

5.2 

BACKGROUND TO THE PROPOSALS ............................................................................................... 4 

SCOPE OF THE JOINT OPINION ....................................................................................................... 5 

PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS .................................................................................................... 6 

THE NEED FOR A COMPREHENSIVE LEGAL FRAMEWORK.............................................................. 8 

SPECIFIC DATA PROTECTION-RELATED COMMENTS.................................................................... 11 

General comments ................................................................................................................ 11 

Categories of personal data .................................................................................................. 12 

5.3 
Adoption  of  adequate  technical  and  organisational  privacy  and  security  measures  in  the 
context of the Proposal ......................................................................................................................... 12 

5.4 

5.5 

5.6 

5.7 

 

 

Identification of controllers and processors ......................................................................... 13 

Transparency and data subject’s rights ................................................................................ 13 

Data storage .......................................................................................................................... 14 

International Data Transfers ................................................................................................. 14 

 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         3 

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection 
Supervisor 

Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection of 
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  by  the  Union  institutions,  bodies, 
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Regulation  (EC)  No 
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC, 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 
 
Having regard to the request for a Joint Opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor and of 
the European Data Protection Board of 17 March 2021 regarding the Proposal for a Regulation of the 
European Parliament and of the Council on a framework for the issuance, verification and acceptance 
of interoperable certificates on vaccination, testing and recovery to facilitate free movement during 
the COVID-19 pandemic (Digital Green Certificate), 

HAVE ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION 

1  BACKGROUND TO THE PROPOSALS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

On  17  March  2021,  the  Commission  published  the  Proposal  for  a  Regulation  of  the  European 
Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  a  framework  for  the  issuance,  verification  and  acceptance  of 
interoperable certificates on vaccination, testing and recovery to facilitate free movement during 
the COVID-19 pandemic (Digital Green Certificate) (“the Proposal”). The Proposal and its Annex are 
enacted pursuant to Article 21(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (“TFEU”), 
according to which every EU citizen has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the 
Member  States 1,  subject  to  the  limitations  and  conditions  laid  down  in  the  Treaties  and  by  the 
measures adopted to give them effect. 

On  17 March  2021,  the  Commission also  published the Proposal  for  a  Regulation of the European 
Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  a  framework  for  the  issuance,  verification  and  acceptance  of 
interoperable  certificates  on  vaccination,  testing  and  recovery  to  third-country  nationals  legally 
staying or residing in the territories of Member States during the COVID-19 pandemic (Digital Green 
Certificate) (“the Second Proposal”). The Second Proposal is enacted pursuant to Article 77(2)(c) TFEU, 
according to which the Union shall develop policies setting out the conditions under which nationals 
of third countries shall have the freedom to travel within the Union. 

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) and the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) note 
that the Proposals aim to facilitate the exercise of the right to free movement within the EU during 
the  COVID-19  pandemic  by  establishing  a  common  framework  for  the  issuance,  verification  and 
acceptance  of  interoperable  certificates  on  COVID-19  vaccination,  testing  and  recovery,  entitled 
“Digital Green Certificate”. 

                                                           

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”, and references to the "EU" should be understood as references to the "EEA". 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         4 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

The Proposal states that, in order to limit the spread of the virus, Member States have adopted various 
measures, some of which have had an impact on Union citizens’ right to move and reside freely within 
the territory of the Member  States, such as restrictions on entry or requirements  for cross-border 
travelers  to  undergo  quarantine 2.  It  also  notes  that  many  Member  States  have  launched  or  are 
planning to launch initiatives to issue vaccination certificates3. 

The EDPB and the EDPS also note that the Proposals require all EU Member States to use the Digital 
Green Certificate framework and issue certificates for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of the 
right to free movement within the EU during the COVID-19 pandemic. 

On 17 March 2021, the Commission requested a Joint Opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS on the basis 
of Article 42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 (“EUDPR”)4 on the Proposal and the Second Proposal 
(jointly “the Proposals”). 

2  SCOPE OF THE JOINT OPINION 

The Proposals are of particular importance due to their major impact on the protection of individuals’ 
rights  and  freedoms  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  their  personal  data.  The  scope  of  this  Joint 
Opinion is limited to the aspects of the Proposals relating to the protection of personal data, which 
represent a fundamental aspect of the Proposals. 

For the sake of clarity, as the second Proposal is limited to ensuring that EU Member States apply the 
rules laid down in the Proposal to the third country nationals, but who reside or stay legally in their 
territory and are entitled to travel to other Member States in accordance with Union law, the EDPB 
and  the  EDPS  will  provide  its  recommendations  with  a  focus on  the  Proposal. This  being  said,  the 
general  comments  and  considerations  made  in  this  Joint  Opinion  are  fully  applicable  to  both 
Proposals. 

Not entering into other important ethical and societal aspects on which the Proposal may have an 
impact in terms of compliance with fundamental rights,  the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that it is 
essential that the Proposal is consistent and does not conflict in any manner with the application of 
the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”)5. This is not only for the sake of legal certainty, but 
also to avoid that the Proposal has the effect of directly or indirectly jeopardizing the fundamental 
right  to  the  protection of personal  data,  as  established  under  Article  16  TEFU and  Article 8 of the 
Charter of fundamental rights of the European Union (“the Charter”). 

10. 

In particular, in this Joint Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS will point out the areas where the Proposal 
requires further alignment with the EU data protection framework, also with a view of avoiding the 
legal uncertainty that would arise if these are not addressed in the adopted legislation. 

                                                           

2 See Recital 3 of the Proposal.  
3 See Recital 8 of the Proposal.  
4 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection 
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and 
agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 
1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39). 
5 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1. 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         5 

11. 

The EDPB and the EDPS are aware of the ongoing legislative process of the Proposal and stress their 
availability  to  the  co-legislators  to  provide  further  advice  and  recommendations  throughout  this 
process and to ensure in particular: legal certainty for natural persons, due protection of personal data 
for data subjects in line with the TFEU, the Charter and data protection legislation. 

3  PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS 

12. 

13. 

14. 

The EDPB and the EDPS recall that data protection does not constitute an obstacle for fighting the 
current pandemic6. Moreover, compliance with data protection law will help citizens’ trust towards 
the framework created by Proposal. At the same time, the EDPB and the EDPS suggest the Commission 
to take a holistic and ethical approach to the Proposal in order to encompass all the issues related 
to privacy and data protection and fundamental rights in general. Moreover, as previously stressed, 
the  general  principles  of  effectiveness,  necessity7,  and  proportionality8 must  guide  any  measure 
adopted by Member States or EU institutions that involve processing of personal data to fight COVID-
199. 

The  European  Council,  in  its  statement  of  25  February  2021,  called  for  a  common  approach  to 
vaccination certificates. It also welcomed the adoption of the two Council recommendations on travel 
within, and into, the EU, according to which restrictions can be introduced in accordance with the 
principles of proportionality and non-discrimination and taking into account the specific situation of 
cross-border communities.10 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  highlight  that  a  clear  distinction  should  be  made  between  “vaccination 
certificate”,  which  corresponds  to  the  attestation  given  to  a  person  that  has  received  a  COVID-19 
vaccine, and the term “immunity certificate”. In this regard, we note that, at the time of preparation 
of  this  Joint  Opinion,  there  seems  to  be  little  scientific  evidence  supporting  the  fact  that  having 
received a COVID-19 vaccine (or having recovered from COVID-19) grants immunity and how long it 
lasts. Therefore, the Digital Green Certificate should be understood merely as a verifiable proof of a 
timestamped factual medical application or history that will facilitate the free movement of EU citizens 
due  to  its  common  format  in  all  Member  States.  However,  we  caution  to  derive  conclusions  for 
immunity or contagiousness, as a consolidated scientific opinion is yet outstanding. 

15. 

In the same line, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that the World Health Organization (“WHO”), in its 
‘Interim  position  paper:  considerations  regarding  proof  of  COVID-19  vaccination  for  international 
travellers’  dated  5  February  2021 11,  stated  that  [emphasis  added]  “(...)  national  authorities  and 

                                                           

6 See EDPB Statement on the processing of personal data in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak. Adopted on 
19 March 2020.  
7 See Assessing the necessity of measures that limit the fundamental right to the protection of personal data: A 
Toolkit, 11 April 2017. 
8 See EDPS Guidelines on assessing the proportionality of measures that limit the fundamental rights to privacy 
and to the protection of personal data, 19 December 2019. 
9 See Guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and contact tracing tools in the context of the COVID-19 
outbreak para. 4; see also EDPB Statement on the processing of personal data in the context of the COVID-19 
outbreak, 20 March 2020. 
10 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2021/02/25/statement-of-the-members-of-the-
european-council-on-covid-19-and-health-25-february-2021/.  
11  https://www.who.int/news-room/articles-detail/interim-position-paper-considerations-regarding-proof-of-
covid-19-vaccination-for-international-travellers. 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         6 

conveyance  operators  should  not  introduce  requirements  of  proof  of  COVID-19  vaccination  for 
international travel as a condition for departure or entry, given that there are still critical unknowns 
regarding the efficacy of vaccination in reducing transmission.”  

16. 

In  the  context  of  ongoing  discussions,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  acknowledge  that,  at  the  time  of 
issuance of this Joint Opinion, diverging views exist as to the potential risk of discrimination arising 
from  the  use  of  vaccination  certificates 12 .  While  the  Proposal  is  not  limited  to  the  vaccination 
certificates to  mitigate the  risk of  discrimination,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  underline  the  lack  of  an 
impact assessment accompanying the Proposal, that would provide substantiation as to the impact 
of  the  measures  being  adopted  as  well  as  to  the  effectiveness  of  already  existing  less  intrusive 
measures. 

17.  At the same time,  the  EDPB and the  EDPS also acknowledge  that the current emergency situation 
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has led to real and important risks, both for the exercise of the 
right  of free movement  within Member States  and for public health due  to the  lack of a common 
approach towards interoperable certificates. Moreover, as put forward by Europol, a high risk relating 
to  the  forgery  and  illicit  sale  of  false  COVID-19  test  certificates  exists 13.  In  accordance  with  the 
Proposal, the Digital Green Certificate shall mitigate these risks by harmonising the documentation 
and adopting a number of security measures related thereto. Furthermore, it has to be considered 
that  the  introduction  of  the  Digital  Green  Certificate  will  not  eliminate  the  risk  for  forgeries  and 
therefore, it must be accompanied by the adoption of adequate technical and organisational measures 
safeguarding against manipulation and falsification of the certificates. 

18. 

Taking into account the above  considerations, the EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge  the legitimate 
objective of the Proposal of harmonising the documentation relating to the issuance, verification and 
acceptance of the Digital Green Certificate within the EU with the aim of enabling the free movement 
of citizens between EU Member States. However, the recommendations provided below, limited to 
the provisions of the Proposal that are relevant from a data protection perspective, are made with 
reservation to ongoing scientific, legal, and societal discussions. 

19. 

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome that the Proposal provides for a Digital Green Certificate aimed at 
covering the different conditions faced by EU citizens and legal third country residents (vaccinated, 
recovered and tested), thus allowing to meet the alternative requirements that may be established by 
Member States to remove the restrictions to the exercise of the right of the free movement adopted 

                                                           

12 See among others, Ada Lovelace Institute, What place should COVID-19 vaccine passports have in society?, 
17.2.2021. At page 2, “The expert group came to the view that, at present, vaccination status does not offer clear 
or conclusive evidence about any individual’s risk to others via transmission. Without that, it cannot be a robust 
basis for risk-based decision making, and therefore any roll out of a digital passport is not currently justified.” 
Consequently, see page 4: “Digital passports should not be rolled out while so much is unknown about COVID-
19,  particularly  the  effect  of  different  vaccines  (and  vaccination  regimes)  on  transmission,  the  duration  of 
protection and the generalisability of those effects”. 
Also to be noted: “While vaccine passports will be seen by some as a way to increase freedom, for those without 
a passport they would constitute a denial of liberties that others are being granted. Therefore the justifications 
both for the relaxation of current restrictions for some and also for their continuation for others should be clearly 
articulated” (at page 3). “A vaccine passport as defined here consists of three things: health information (vaccine 
status  through  e.g.  a  certificate),  verification  of  identity  (connecting  the  holder  to  that  certificate)  and 
authorisation for the purpose of allowing or blocking actions (a pass)”. We note that each of these aspects, 
also relevant under data protection viewpoint, is not sufficiently defined in the Proposal. 
13

https://www.europol.europa.eu/early-warning-notification-illicit-sales-of-false-negative-covid-19-test-

certificates. 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         7 

to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, the EDPB and the EDPS request the Commission 
to clarify that Member States should accept all three types of certificates. Should this not be the case, 
a clear discrimination based on health data would occur, thus resulting in a breach of fundamental 
rights.  

20. 

The EDPB and the EDPS also highlight that the deployment of the Digital Green Certificate must in any 
event also contemplate measures to identify and mitigate the risks that may result from the use of 
the  framework  and  the  issuance  of  the  Digital  Green  Certificate,  including  possible  unintended 
secondary uses without a proper legal basis established at national level, that respects Articles 7 and 
8 of the Charter and is in full compliance with the GDPR, as will be explained in detail in the next 
chapter. 

4  THE NEED FOR A COMPREHENSIVE LEGAL FRAMEWORK 

21.  Pursuant to Article 52 of the Charter, “[s]ubject to the principle of proportionality, limitations to the 
rights and freedoms recognised by the Charter may be made only if they are necessary and genuinely 
meet  objectives  of  general  interest  recognised  by  the  Union  or  the  need  to  protect  the  rights  and 
freedoms  of  others.”  In  accordance  with  this,  compliance  with  the  principles  of  necessity  and 
proportionality  by  the  measures  introduced  with  the  Proposal  should  carefully  be  analysed.  In 
particular,  the  Proposal  should  achieve  a  fair  balance  between  the  objectives  of  general  interest 
pursued by the Digital Green Certificate and the individual interest in self-determination, as well as 
the respect  for her/his  fundamental rights to privacy, data protection and non-discrimination, and 
other fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of movement and residence. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

The Commission substantiates the proportionality of the Proposal on the fact that the latter limits the 
processing of personal data to the minimum necessary, by only including a limited set of personal data 
on the certificates  to be issued (Article  5 and Annex of the  Proposal); by setting out that the  data 
obtained  when  verifying  the  certificates  should  not  be  retained  (Article  9);  and  by  establishing  a 
framework that does not require the setting up and maintenance of a central database. Moreover, 
the Proposal clarifies that the Digital Green Certificate and its trust framework will have a temporary 
nature, since it should be suspended by means of a delegated act by the Commission once the COVID-
19 pandemic has ended (Article 15(2) of the Proposal) and given that, as of that point in time, there 
would be no justification requiring citizens to present health documents when exercising their right to 
free movement. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that,  given  the  nature  of  the  interference  of  the  measures  put 
forward by the Proposal, any possible further use of the framework and the Digital Green Certificate 
on  the  basis  of  Member  State  law,  other  than  the  one  of  facilitating  the  right  to  free  movement 
between EU Member States, falls outside of the Proposal14, and consequently of the EDPB EDPS Joint 
Opinion.  

The EDPB and the EDPS nonetheless consider that, should Member States still seek to implement the 
Digital  Green  Certificate  on  the  basis  of  Member  State  law  for  any  possible  further  use  than  the 
intended  purpose  of  facilitating  free  movement  between  EU  Member  States,  this  may  lead  to 
unintended consequences and risks to the fundamental rights of EU citizens. Indeed, the extension of 
the application of the Digital Green Certificate to other situations to ease the restrictions currently in 

                                                           

14 See Recital 37 of the Proposal. 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         8 

place  has  already  been  suggested  and  Member  States  might  plan  to  introduce  it  as  a  de  facto 
requirement, e.g. to enter shops, restaurants, clubs, places of worship or gyms or to use it in any other 
context as in the employment context. Any such further use of the Digital Green Certificate and its 
associated framework under a national legal basis should not legally or factually lead to discrimination 
based on having been (or not) vaccinated or recovered from COVID-19. For this reason, the EDPB and 
the EDPS highlight that any possible further use of the framework, the Digital Green Certificate and 
personal data related to it at Member States level must respect Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter and 
must  be  in  compliance  with  the  GDPR,  including  Article  6(4) GDPR15.  This  implies  the  need  for  a 
proper  legal  basis  in  Member  State  law,  complying  with  the  principles  of  effectiveness,  necessity, 
proportionality and including strong and specific safeguards implemented following a proper impact 
assessment, in particular to avoid any risk of discrimination16 and to prohibit any retention of data in 
the context of the verification process. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS emphasize that such system 
need to be integrated into a comprehensive health policy.The EDPB and the EDPS consider that such 
a legal basis in Member State law should at the very least include specific provisions clearly identifying 
the scope and extent of the processing, the specific purpose involved, the categories of entities that 
can verify the certificate as well as the relevant safeguards to prevent abuse, taking into account the 
risks for the rights and freedoms of data subjects17. As clarified by the CJEU, the need for safeguards 
is all the greater where personal data is subject to automated processing and where the protection of 
the particular category of personal data that is sensitive data is at stake18. 

25.  As the legal basis for any further processing will depend on its compatibility with the legal basis set in 
its primary purpose at EU level, the EDPB and the EDPS recall the importance of clearly defining the 
purpose(s) of the Digital Green Certificate in the Proposal. As stated by the Court of Justice of the 
European Union (“the CJEU”) (Grand Chamber), in the Digital Rights Ireland Judgment of the 8 April 
2014,  and  in  particular,  its  para.  61-62:  “(...)  Directive  2006/24  does  not  contain  substantive  and 
procedural conditions relating to the access of the competent national authorities to the data and to 
their subsequent use. Article 4 (...), which governs the access of those authorities to the data retained, 
does not expressly provide that that access and the subsequent use of the data in question must be 
strictly restricted to the purpose of preventing and detecting precisely defined serious offences [for the 
Regulation, strictly defined purposes] (...); it merely provides that each Member State is to define the 
procedures to be followed and the conditions to be fulfilled in order to gain access to the retained data 
in accordance with necessity and proportionality requirements." [emphasis added] 

26. 

The EDPB and EDPS believe that a detailed description of the purpose(s) of the envisaged measure is 
not only a prerequisite to the proportionality test, but also helps to demonstrate compliance with the 
first requirement of Article 52(1) of the Charter, i.e. the quality of the law19. In this regard, we consider 

                                                           

15 Article  6(4)  GDPR  permits  processing  of  personal  data  for  a  purpose  other  than  which  the  data  has  been 
collected  on  the  basis  of  a  Union  or  Member  State  law,  which  constitutes  a  necessary  and  proportionate 
measure in a democratic society to safeguard the objectives referred to in Article 23(1) GDPR.  
16 The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  are  of  the  view  that  Member  States  should  notably  take  into  account  the  risk  of 
discrimination that could result from different levels of availability and access to vaccines for individuals in the 
EU, availability at low costs of testing as alternative to vaccination, etc. 
17 For further examples of safeguards see the EDPB Guidelines 10/2020 on restrictions under Article 23 GDPR. 
18 Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, La Quadrature du Net a.o, Joined Cases C-511/18, C-
512/18 and C-520/18, 6 October 2020, ECLI:EU:C:2020:791, at paragraph 132. 
19 As stated in the Opinion of Advocate General Mengozzi, ECLI:EU:C:2016:656, para. 193 on the draft Agreement 
between  Canada  and  the  European  Union  on  the  transfer  and  processing  of  Passenger  Name  Record  data: 
“According to the case-law of the ECtHR, that expression requires, in essence, that the measure in question be 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         9 

that the Proposal could better define the purpose of the Green Digital Certificate and provide for a 
mechanism  for  the  monitoring  of  the  use  of  the  certificate  (as  composed  of  the  three  sub-
certificates) by Member States.  

27. 

The EDPB and the EDPS highlight that the Digital Green Certificate will not only contain the sensitive 
information  revealed  in  the  document  itself,  but  also  sensitive  information  that  may  be  drawn  by 
inference.  In  this  regard,  for  example,  given  the  diversified  status  of  the  vaccination  stages  in  the 
different Member States and the order of priority, it may be easily inferred that a young person that 
has been vaccinated when others in the same age category have not, has a trait that justifies getting 
an early vaccination such as being immunocompromised or having a chronic disease20. 

28.  Moreover, the  EDPB and the  EDPS are  of  the view  that the  Proposal must expressly provide that 
access  and  subsequent  use  of  the  data  by  Member  States  once  the  pandemic  has  ended  is  not 
permitted under the Proposal and provide for clear indications in this regard (including a clear review 
and sunset clause for the use the Framework and the Green Digital Certificate, and the involvement 
of  health  care  scientific  monitoring  bodies  issuing  formal  advice  in  the  context  of  the  use  of  the 
certificate(s)). 

29. 

Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that recital 42 and Article 15 of the Proposal must also be 
amended in order to rule out any future use of the Digital Green Certificate once the pandemic has 
ended and limit the scope of the Proposal to the current COVID-19 pandemic and SARS-CoV-2 virus. 
In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS oppose to the open door included in Article 15 of the Proposal, 
whereby the Commission, by means of a delegated act, may declare the further application of the 
Proposal in the future if the WHO would declare a public health emergency of international concern 
in relation to SARS-CoV-2, “a variant thereof, or similar infectious diseases with epidemic potential”. 
The EDPB and the EDPS consider appropriate the deletion of the underlined wording of the provision 
in order to comply with the principle of purpose limitation, and limit the scope of the Proposal to the 
current COVID-19 pandemic and to the purpose of facilitating the free movement of persons (to be 
further  defined  and  accompanied  by  safeguards,  as  specified  in  this,  albeit  not  exhaustive,  Joint 
Opinion) within the current situation. 

 

 

 

 

                                                           

accessible  and  sufficiently  foreseeable,  or,  in  other  words,  that  its  terms  be  sufficiently  clear  to  give  an 
adequate indication as to the circumstances in which and the conditions on which it allows the authorities to 
resort to measures affecting their rights under the ECHR” (emphasis supplied). 
In this regard, see also ECtHR, Catt v The United Kingdom, 24 January 2019, para. 6 of the concurring opinion of 
Judge Koskelo joined by Judge Felici, “the general principles of data protection law, such as those requiring that 
the data to be processed must be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to that purpose, become 
diluted, possibly to the extent of practical irrelevance, where the purpose itself is left without any meaningful 
definition or limitation.” (emphasis added). 
20 See Cofone N. Ignacio, ‘Containment Apps: Immunity Passports and Contact Tracing Surveillance’, 16 January 
2021, https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3767301. 
 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         10 

5  SPECIFIC DATA PROTECTION-RELATED COMMENTS 

5.1  General comments 

30. 

Firstly, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that this Proposal does not allow for -and must not lead to- 
the  creation  of  any  sort  of  personal  data  central  database  at  EU  level  under  the  pretext  of  the 
establishment of the Digital Green Certificate framework. 

31.  Recital 14 and Articles 5(1) and 6(1) of the Proposal state that “(...) Member States should issue the 
certificates making up the Digital Green Certificate automatically or upon request (...)”. In this regard, 
the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to clarify in the Proposal whether the Digital Green Certificate will 
be automatically created but only provided upon request of the data subject, or whether this will only 
be issued upon request of the data subject. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the certificates should necessarily be available 
both in digital and paper-based formats, to ensure the inclusion of all citizens. We recommend to 
reinforce the wording of Recital 14 and Article 3.2 of the Proposal in this regard. 

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome that Recital 15 of the Proposal explicitly acknowledges compliance 
with  EU  data  protection  legislation  as  key  to  the  cross-border  acceptance  of  the  three  types  of 
certificates being proposed (i.e., vaccination certificate, test certificate and certificate of recovery). 
Moreover,  Recital  38  of  the  Proposal  provides  that  “[i]n  line  with  the  principle  of  minimisation  of 
personal  data,  the  certificates  should  only  contain  the  personal  data  necessary  for  the  purpose  of 
facilitating  the  exercise  of  the  right  to  free  movement  within  the  Union  during  the  COVID-19 
pandemic”. 

The EDPB  and  the  EDPS  acknowledge  that  Recital  37  of  the Proposal  provides  Articles  6(1)(c)  and 
9(2)(g) of GDPR as the legal basis for the processing of personal data, for the issuance and verification 
of the interoperable certificates. The EDPB and the EDPS, in this regard, recommend to also include 
the aforementioned legal basis or, alternatively, a reference to compliance with the GDPR, in the main 
text of the Proposal, inter alia in Article 1, second paragraph, and in Article 8(2)(b) of the Proposal. 

35.  Pursuant to Recital 39 of the Proposal, “[f]or the purposes of this Regulation, personal data may be 
transmitted/exchanged across borders with the sole purpose of obtaining the information necessary 
to confirm and verify the holder’s vaccination, testing or recovery status”. The EDPB and the EDPS note 
that,  in  terms  of  interoperability,  the  terminology  “personal  data”  should  be  further  specified,  in 
particular by aligning it to the eHealth Network Guidance in that regard. In line with data protection 
by default, verification techniques not requiring transmission of personal data shall be employed by 
default whenever technically possible. 

36. 

37. 

The EDPS and the EDPS note that Recital 47 of the Proposal must be adapted in order to reflect the 
request  from  the  Commission  for  a  Joint  consultation  to  EDPS  and  EDPB  in  line  with  Article  42(2) 
EUDPR. 

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome that Article 3(3) of the Proposal enables the citizens to obtain free 
of charge certificates as well as new certificates if the personal data contained in the Digital Green 
Certificate is not or no longer accurate or up to date, or the certificate is no longer available to the 
holder. The EDPB and the EDPS recommend clarifying in this provision that the certificate as well as 
its modifications shall be issued upon request of the data subject.  

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         11 

38. 

Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the additional definition of ‘interoperability’ of Article 2(6) 
of the Proposal lacks clarity, insofar as the Digital Green Certificates are based on the eIDAS rules and 
on ISA2 (earlier IDABC and ISA) work on the European Interoperability Framework.  

5.2  Categories of personal data 

39. 

The EDPB and the EDPS note that Annex I sets out the categories and data fields of personal data to 
be  processed  within  the  Digital  Green  Certificate  framework.  In  this  regard,  we  consider  that  the 
justification of the need for such specific data fields is not clearly defined in the Proposal. Moreover, 
the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  further  explanation  should  be  provided  as  to  whether  all 
categories of personal data provided for in Annex I need to also be included in the Quick Response 
(“QR”)  code  of  both  digital-  and  paper-based  certificates.  An  approach  supporting  differently 
comprehensive  data  sets  and  QR  codes  can  improve  data  minimisation  in  different  use  cases. 
Moreover, in relation to the effectiveness of the Digital Green Certificate, we note that the ‘expiry 
date’ of the validity of each ‘certificate’ is not specified (except for the ‘certificate of recovery’). This 
last  aspect  is  linked,  under  the  data  protection  viewpoint,  to  the  lack  of  specification  of  the  data 
retention periods. 

40. 

In the light of these considerations and more specifically with regards to the vaccination certificate, 
the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  the  Proposal  in  its  recitals  should  provide  additional 
substantiation as to the need for data fields such as the vaccine medicinal product, vaccine marketing 
authorisation holder or manufacturer and number in a series of vaccinations/doses to be included in 
the certificate for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of the right to free movement within the EU 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we note that the lack of harmonisation in the Proposal 
might hinder the objective of facilitating the exercise of the right to free movement of EU citizens. 

41.  Additionally, the EDPB and the EDPS note that, in line with Articles 5(2), 6(2), 7(1), 7(2) of the Proposal, 
the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts by adding, modifying or removing data fields 
on the categories of personal data of the three types of certificates. Any modification of data fields 
might invalidate the impact assessment, thus requiring a re-evaluation of the risk. In this regard, the 
EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  only  more  detailed  data  fields  (sub-categories  of  data)  falling 
under the already defined categories of data should be added through the adoption of delegated 
acts. The EDPS (and the EDPB when applicable) should be consulted when such delegated acts are 
proposed. 

42. 

Lastly, as already mentioned in the context of purpose limitation of the Proposal, the EDPB and the 
EDPS also note that point 3(c) of the Annex includes as a data field of the certificate, the “disease or 
agent the citizen has recovered from". In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that, given the 
scope of the draft Proposal and the COVID-19 context we currently face, the disease or agent to 
which the citizen has recovered from should only be limited to COVID-19, including its variants.  

5.3  Adoption  of  adequate  technical  and  organisational  privacy  and  security 

measures in the context of the Proposal 

43. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that,  despite  the  sensitive  nature  of  the  personal  data  that  will  be 
included  in  the  Digital  Green  Certificate,  the  Proposal  submits  to  an  Implementing  Act  by  the 
Commission  (Article  8  of  the  Proposal)  the  decision  on  the  privacy  and  security  measures  and 
requirements that the Digital Green Certificate should comply with. 

44. 

The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the Proposal should state that the controllers and processors 
shall take adequate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         12 

to the risk of the processing, in line with Article 32 GDPR. These measures should consider for example 
the establishment of processes for a regular testing, assessment and evaluation of the effectiveness 
of the privacy and security measures adopted. Indeed, we note that these measures are designed to 
integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing in order to protect the rights of data subjects. 
Further specification of the mandatory measures might be made by means of implementing acts 
adopted by the Commission in line with Article 8 of the Proposal. 

45. 

The EDPB and the EDPS recall that the adoption of adequate technical and organisational privacy and 
security measures, as mentioned above, should be taken both at the time of the determination of the 
means for processing as well as at the time of the processing itself, in line with the principles of data 
protection by design and by default as set by Article 25 GDPR. 

46.  Concerning the adoption by the Commission of implementing acts providing for additional technical 
specifications of the proposed types of certificates, the EDPB and the EDPS recall the obligation of the 
Commission to consult the EDPS and the EDPB (where applicable), in line with Article 42 EUDPR. 

47. 

Finally, for the sake of consistency with the GDPR wording and due to the relevance of the adoption 
of adequate technical and organisational measures in the context of the Proposal, the EDPB and the 
EDPS  also  suggest  adding  to  the  title  of  Article  8  the  wording  “and  Technical  and  organisational 
measures”.  

5.4 

Identification of controllers and processors  

48. 

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome that the Proposal provides some starting point as to the clarification 
of the roles of controller and processor within the context of the Digital Green Certificate framework. 
In this regard, we note that, pursuant to Article 9(4) of the Proposal, the authorities responsible for 
issuing the Digital Green Certificate referred to in Article 3 shall be considered as controllers in the 
sense of Article 4(7) of the GDPR. Moreover, Article 8(g) of the Proposal provides that the Commission 
shall  adopt  implementing  acts  containing  the  technical  specifications  and  rules  to  allocate 
responsibilities amongst controllers and as regards processors.  

49.  Due to the relevance of the Digital Green Certificate in the context of the exercise of the right of free 
movement, and taking into account the possible use of the certificate in multiple Member States (e.g. 
when  travelling  through  various  Member  States),  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  that  the 
Proposal specifies that a list of all the entities foreseen to be acting as controllers, processors and 
recipients of the data in that Member State (other than the authorities responsible for issuing the 
certificates which listed in Article 9(4) of the Proposal) shall be made public. This will allow the EU 
citizens making use of the Digital Green Certificate to know the identity of the entity to whom they 
may turn to for the exercise of their data protection rights under the GDPR, including in particular the 
right to receive transparent information on the ways in which data subject’s rights may be exercised 
with respect to the processing of personal data. 

50. 

Lastly,  the  EDBP  and  the  EDPS  recommend  clarifying  in  the  Proposal  the  role  of  the  Commission 
within  the  meaning  of  data  protection  law  in  the  context  of  the  trust  framework  guaranteeing 
interoperability between the certificates. 

5.5  Transparency and data subject’s rights 

51. 

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome Article 3(2) of the Proposal, which clarifies that “[t]he information 
contained in the certificates shall also be shown in human-readable form”. Due to the sensitivity of the 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         13 

data involved, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend the Commission to ensure that the transparency 
of the processes are clearly outlined for the citizens to be able to exercise their data protection rights. 

52. 

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome Article 3(3) of the Proposal stating that “[t]he holder shall be entitled 
to request the issuance of a new certificate if the personal data contained in the certificate is not or no 
longer accurate or up to date (...).”, as this is in line with Article 5(1)(d) and 16 GDPR. 

5.6  Data storage 

53. 

54. 

55. 

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome Recital 40 of the Proposal stating that “[t]his Regulation does not 
create a legal basis for retaining personal data obtained from the certificate by the Member State of 
destination or by the cross-border passenger transport services operators required by national law to 
implement  certain  public  health  measures  during  the  COVID-19  pandemic.”  and  Article  9(3)  of  the 
Proposal explicitly stating that “[t]he personal data processed for the purpose of issuing the certificates 
referred to in Article 3, including the issuance of a new certificate, shall not be retained longer than is 
necessary for its purpose and in no case longer than the period for which the certificates may be used 
to exercise the right to free movement”, as these are both in line with the principle of data storage 
limitation of the GDPR. 

The EDPB and the EDPS recall that the  data  storage of  personal data by issuing authorities should 
respect the principles established in Article 5(1)(e) GDPR and, where possible, specific data storage 
periods  should  be  explicitly  defined.  If this  was  not possible, then  at  least  specific  criteria  used to 
determine such storage period should be specified. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that, in any case, 
the storage period in Member States should not go beyond the end of the COVID-19 pandemic, in line 
with Article 15(2) of the Proposal. 

5.7 

International Data Transfers 

The EDPB and the EDPS note that, pursuant to Recital 39 of the Proposal, “(...) personal data may be 
transmitted/exchanged across borders with the sole purpose of obtaining the information necessary 
to confirm and verify the holder’s vaccination, testing or recovery status (...)”. Moreover, Article 4(2) 
of the Proposal provides that the “[t]he trust framework shall ensure, where possible, interoperability 
with technological systems established at international level.” Based on this wording, the EDPB and 
the EDPS understand that the Proposal would be opening the door to potential international transfers 
of personal data in certain situations when implementing the Digital Green Certificate. The EDPB and 
the EDPS consider that these international transfers could imply an additional risk for the processing 
of personal data, as third countries could give a secondary use to the data exchanged within the Digital 
Green  Certificate  framework.  Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  to  explicitly  clarify 
whether and when any international transfers of personal data are expected and include safeguards 
in the legislation to ensure that third countries will only process the personal data exchanged for the 
purposes specified by the Proposal.  

 

Brussels, 31 March 2021 

For the European Data Protection Board  

      For the European Data Protection Supervisor 

The Chair  

 

 

 

 

      The European Data Protection Supervisor 

(Andrea Jelinek)                                                               (Wojciech Wiewiórowski) 

 

 

Adopted                                                                                                                                                         14 

