The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision

 

 

Munich and Ansbach, November 20th, 2020

 

press release

 

Strengthening of user rights:

Microsoft supplements Standard Contractual Clauses

 

Bavarian data protection authorities welcome the initiative

to secure international data transfers

 

 

 

According to the judgment of the European

Court of Justice on Schrems II of July 2020 is still possible to a very limited extent, although

numerous US providers are key players in global data processing.

 

One reason for this is the mass surveillance by US

rican security authorities, such as the NSA, which is why data from Europeans is only

additional protective measures may be transmitted. The European Data Protection Board

last week issued initial recommendations for action on the design of protective measures

took part and were invited to a consultation.

 

All those involved and decision-makers in international data transfer are called upon to

to find sustainable solutions on the basis of suitable protective measures that meet the needs

of European data protection.

 

Microsoft is now one of the key providers of globally networked IT products for companies

and authorities have made some proposals for guarantees that directly strengthen users' rights.

 

An evaluation of these proposals is now made by all decision-makers, so too

in the upcoming deliberations of the data protection conference. As a contribution to these

The data protection supervisory authorities of the states of Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria assess the ratings

and Hessen as follows: "The proposals from Microsoft are a valuable stimulus for the common

Search for legal certainty for data transfers to the USA as well as to other countries,

whose legal system does not meet the protection standard of European data protection law

can guarantee. The European Court of Justice has ruled unequivocally that data flows

from Europe to the USA are no longer permitted without additional measures. Microsoft has with

his initiative presented today this demand of the European Court of Justice and for the

enforcement of the GDPR competent data protection supervisory authorities in a first step

grabbed. Especially for small and medium-sized companies looking for the uncomplicated and anyway

are particularly dependent on the use of standard products in compliance with data protection regulations

This is encouraging news,” states BayLDA President Michael Will.

Address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

 

- 2 -

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection, Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri notes: "Bavarian

public bodies should primarily use services based on data transmission

fers to third countries. However, it would be unrealistic to believe that this is common for all

gen office applications is possible. It is all the more important, albeit US providers

of office applications meet the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. I hold

Microsoft's current proposals for a first important starting point for the coming

the negotiations."

 

In parallel press releases, the state commissioners for data protection and the

Freedom of information in Baden-Württemberg and Hesse, Dr. Stefan Brink and Prof. Dr. Michael

Ronellenfitsch their assessments of the additional measures now presented.

 

dr Stefan Brink emphasizes: "If a data processing company in the future on the European

If it wants to operate on the European market, it must meet European legal standards, in particular the GDPR

retain. This includes the companies informing those affected when security authorities

gain access to their data. It is good and necessary for a company like Microsoft to follow suit

to European data protection and amends its contractual clauses accordingly. The Euro-

European Court of Justice has clearly ruled that data flows from Europe to the USA without such

additional measures are no longer permitted."

 

Prof. Dr. Michael Ronellenfitsch adds: “The question of whether adequate data protection in the USA

for European export companies is to be answered by a weighing decision

ten. This was due to the limited calculability of the previous US government-operated

dele politics loaded. In view of the election result, an improvement in the

negotiation situation can be assumed. But even then, a negotiation success is only possible

expect if the data protection problems are gradually open-ended at all decision-making levels

be discussed. All that matters is that the relevant arguments are put on the table.

be brought. It doesn't matter who does it. The actual consideration can then only

be carried out by the responsible bodies.”

 

Microsoft's new contract clauses contain provisions on

 

 the information of the data subject if Microsoft is required by a governmental order

was legally obliged to release data to US security authorities

ben;

 Microsoft's obligation to take legal action and the US courts to

shout to contest the official order to release the data;

 the right to compensation for the data subject whose data is unlawful

were processed and who suffered material or immaterial damage as a result

ten has

According to the joint assessment of the data protection supervisory authorities involved, this is the

Transfer problem to the USA not generally solved - because an addition to the standard contractual

clauses cannot lead to the fact that the European Court of Justice considers disproportionate

moderately objectionable access by the US secret services to the data

become.

 



 

- 3 -

 

But that Microsoft, as one of the largest, internationally active corporations worldwide, with

a significant market power in Europe, are now moving in the right direction and

improvements for the rights of European citizens in its contract clauses

record, is an important step and a clear signal to other providers, this example

to follow.

 

Before the end of the year, the DSK will continue its talks with Microsoft on the Office package - the

The progress that has now been made promises a “tailwind”.

 

 

Michael Will

president

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection

