Reference: ENF0987656 

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT 2000 (SECTION 52) 

ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 

DATED: 26 April 2023 

 

To:  Shropshire Council 

 

Of:  Shirehall 

Abbey Foregate 

Shrewsbury 

SY2 6ND 

 

     

 

1. Shropshire Council (The “Council”) is a “public authority” listed in 

Schedule 1 and defined by section 3(1)(a)(i) of the Freedom of 

Information Act 2000 (“FOIA”). FOIA provides public access to 

information held by public authorities.  

 

 

2. The Information Commissioner (the “Commissioner”) hereby issues 

the Council with an Enforcement Notice (the “Notice”) under section 

52 FOIA. The Notice is in relation to the Council’s 

 

 

 

a.  Continuing non-compliance with section 1(1) FOIA; 

b.  Continuing breach of section 10(1) FOIA. 

3. This Notice explains the Commissioner’s decision to take enforcement 

action. The specific steps that the Council is required to take are set 

out in Annex 1 

 

 

 

1 

Reference: ENF0987656 

Legal Framework for this Notice 

 

4. A person requesting information from a public authority has a right, 

subject to exemptions, to be informed by the public authority in writing 

whether it holds the information, and to have that communicated to 

him, if the public authority holds it. This is set out in section 1(1) 

FOIA– 

 

“(1) Any person making a request for information to a public 

authority is entitled – 

(a) 

to be informed in writing by the public authority whether it 

holds information of the description specified in the request, 

and 

(b) 

if that is the case, to have that information communicated to 

him.” 

 

5. Section 10(1) FOIA specifies that public authorities must respond to 

requests within 20 working days:  

 

 

“… a public authority must comply with section 1(1) promptly and in 

any event not later than the twentieth working day following 

receipt.” 

6. There is provision under FOIA for a public authority to claim a 

reasonable extension to this limit in certain limited circumstances. The  

code of practice issued under section 45 of the FOIA recommends that, 

where those limited circumstances apply, an extension should be for a 

maximum of a further 20 working days1. In all cases, the public 

authority must give the requester a written response within the 

 

1 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/744071/
CoP_FOI_Code_of_Practice_-_Minor_Amendments_20180926_.pdf  

 

2 

Reference: ENF0987656 

standard time limit for compliance advising of reliance on the 

permitted extension.  

 

7. The Commissioner has various powers under FOIA. One of these is the 

issuing of an Enforcement Notice. Section 52(1) of FOIA states –  

 

“If the Commissioner is satisfied that a public authority has failed to 

comply with any of the requirements of Part I, the Commissioner 

may serve the authority with a notice (in this Act referred to as an 

“enforcement notice”) requiring the authority to take within such 

time as may be specified in the notice, such steps as may be so 

specified for complying with those requirements.” 

 

Background  

 

8. The Commissioner became aware of the Council’s poor FOI compliance 

performance when his representative made contact with it in late 

2022. The Council provided the Commissioner with initial statistics 

which raised concerns about its timeliness rate for responding to 

requests.    

 

9. In subsequent correspondence the Council experienced some difficulty 

in providing the Commissioner with accurate statistics regarding the 

number of requests which remained outstanding. The Council 

confirmed that this was due to a weakness in its system, with 

individual service areas being responsible for recording and collating 

their own FOI requests. 

 

10. The Council confirmed that, prior to Christmas 2022, it had completed 

the Self-Assessment FOI Toolkit and that this was used as the basis for 

developing a Draft Recovery Plan. It also confirmed its intention to 

appoint a new post of Head of Policy and Governance with 

 

3 

Reference: ENF0987656 

responsibility for overseeing the FOI processes and addressing the 

Commissioner’s concerns going forward. The Commissioner has since 

been contacted by the newly appointed post holder. The Council 

confirmed that it had directed service areas to ensure that outstanding 

requests were cleared by the end of March 2023. 

 

11. At the time of writing the Council still has a backlog of 143 overdue 

requests. The oldest unanswered request dates back to April 2021, 

with remaining requests dating from January 2022 and every 

subsequent month to the present day. 

 

The Contravention and Reasons for this Notice 

 

12. FOIA requires a public authority to inform people whether it holds 

information they have requested and to communicate it to them within 

20 working days of receipt of their request. 

 

13. Taking into account the significant volume of unanswered FOI 

requests, their age profile including many requests subject to severe 

delay, and the need for significant and sustained improvement in 

timely FOI responses, the Commissioner considers it a proportionate 

regulatory step to issue an Enforcement Notice to Shropshire Council. 

This Notice requires the Council to comply with section 1(1) of FOIA in 

respect of each FOI request, where the response is outside of 20 

working days at the date of this Notice, and where a permitted 

extension of a maximum of a further 20 working days has not been 

applied. It is essential that the improvements that the Council has 

already achieved since the initial contact with the ICO are sustained. 

 

14. The Commissioner also considers it a proportionate regulatory step to 

require the Council to finalise and publish an action plan which 

formalises measures to mitigate delays in responding to the requests it 

 

4 

Reference: ENF0987656 

receives, in line with statutory requirements. This action plan should 

be supported by a ‘lessons learned’ exercise, which examines the root 

cause of delays in responding to FOI requests, with mitigations for any 

recurring problems addressed specifically in the plan. The 

Commissioner has produced a range of resources2, including a 

template Action Plan, which should support the Council in complying 

with this step.  

 

Terms of this Notice 

 

15. The Commissioner therefore exercises his powers under section 52 of 

FOIA to serve an Enforcement Notice requiring the Council to take 

specified steps to comply with the requirements of Part 1 of FOIA. The 

specified steps are set out in Annex 1 of this Notice. 

 

16. The consequence of failing to comply with an Enforcement Notice is 

that the Commissioner may make written certification of this fact to 

the High Court pursuant to section 54 of FOIA. Upon consideration and 

inquiry by the High Court, the Council may be dealt with as if it had 

committed a contempt of court. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-freedom-of-information/resources-toolkits-and-training/ 

 

 

5 

Reference: ENF0987656 

Right of Appeal 

 

17. By virtue of section 57 of FOIA there is a right of appeal against this 

Notice to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights). If an appeal is 

brought against this Notice, it need not be complied with pending 

determination or withdrawal of that appeal. 

 

18. Information about the appeals process may be obtained from:  

 

First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

GRC & GRP Tribunals,  

PO Box 9300,  

LEICESTER,  

LE1 8DJ  

 

Tel: 0203 9368963 

Email: GRC@justice.gov.uk  

Website: www.justice.gov.uk/tribunals/general-regulatory-

chamber 

 

19. Any Notice of Appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 

(calendar) days of the date on which this Enforcement Notice is sent. 

 

 

 
Phillip Angell 
Head of Freedom of Information Casework 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 5AF  
 

 

 

6 

Reference: ENF0987656 

Annex 1 

 

TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

THIS NOTICE REQUIRES SHROPSHIRE COUNCIL TO TAKE THE 

FOLLOWING STEPS BY NO LATER THAN SIX MONTHS FROM THE 

DATE OF THIS NOTICE: 

 

(i) 

In respect of each information request where the response is 

outside of 20 working days as at the date of this notice, and 

where a permitted extension has not been applied, to comply 

with section 1(1)(a) of FOIA and, if information of the 

description specified in the request is held, either: 

 

(ii) 

communicate it pursuant to section 1(1)(b) FOIA; or issue a 

valid refusal notice under section 17 FOIA, unless section 

17(6) FOIA applies. 

 

THIS NOTICE FURTHER REQUIRES SHROPSHIRE COUNCIL TO 

TAKE THE FOLLOWING STEP BY NO LATER THAN 35 CALENDAR 

DAYS FROM THE DATE OF THIS NOTICE: 

 
(iii) 

 

 

 

Devise and publish an action plan formalising the measures it 

will take to ensure it complies with its legal duties under Part 

1 of FOIA to respond to information requests in a timely 

fashion, while also clearing its backlog of late requests as 

required by this notice.  

7 

