Case number: NAIH / 2020/2036.
Clerk:

Subject: Partial decision granting the application
termination order and order deadline
in the context of an overrun

The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
(residence: […].) at the request of the applicant (hereinafter: the Applicant) with […]. (registered office: […])
hereinafter referred to as the “Requested”) in the following data protection authority proceedings
brings:
I. In the decision of the Authority, at the request of the Applicant
partially upheld as follows:
a) finds that the Applicant has violated the personal data of the Applicant
by not responding to his request of 23 August 2019
provided full information on the proper treatment of the GDPR in accordance with Article 15 (1) a
On the processing of personal data of the applicant.
(b) instruct the Applicant, within 15 days of the decision becoming final, to:
Provide information in accordance with Article 15 (1) of the GDPR to the applicant.
II. The decision of the Authority shall include the part of the application concerning the imposition of a data protection fine
rejects.
III. In the order of the Authority, the data protection authority procedure is available on the Applicant's website
in the section on the compliance of the data management information with the GDPR
terminates.
ARC. In view of the fact that the administrative time limit has been exceeded, the Authority shall
that HUF 10,000, ie ten thousand forints, to the Applicant's choice - to be indicated in writing
- pay by bank transfer or postal order.

***
I. b. the fulfillment of the obligation pursuant to point 1 to the Applicant as of the taking of the measure
You must certify in writing within 8 days, together with the supporting evidence, that:
Towards an authority. In the event of non-compliance, the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision.
Annexes I and II to this Decision and Annex III to this Decision. by order pursuant to
there is no administrative remedy against him, but within 30 days of notification
may be challenged in an administrative action before the Metropolitan Court. THE
the application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, together with the case file
forward it to the court. Only in proceedings against an order terminating proceedings

2

it shall act in accordance with the rules of the simplified procedure. Indicate the request for a hearing in the application
must. For non-personal tax exemptions, judicial review
the fee for the proceedings is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. Before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory in these proceedings.
A IV. There is no place for an independent appeal against the order under point 1, only on the merits of the case
may be challenged in an appeal against a decision taken.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
On 20 September 2019, the Applicant submitted an application to the Authority stating that
On August 23, 2019, he submitted a request for access to the Applicant, which request no
sent to the Authority as an annex.
The access request is evidenced by all requests handled by the Applicant
categories of personal data, but in particular those listed in points 1 to 7
requested information on, and access to, information on
From application. In points 1-7, the Applicant expressly requested the Applicant to a
provide information on the source of your personal data, the legal basis and circumstances of data processing,
and exactly what data the Applicant handles and why he did not receive it
Information on the handling of your personal data by 26 April 2019. The Applicant requested information on this
also for the purpose and legal basis of which the Applicant transmitted the Applicant's personal data
notary to the […] notary and the […] District Court, and whether the
Applicant’s personal data to other third parties, if so, for what purpose and legal basis,
in the case of a transfer based on a legitimate interest, what was the result of the balancing test.
According to the Applicant, the reply letter reads “GDPR III. information contained in Chapter
failed to fulfill its obligations ’because it did not include all the
information. It was sent by the Applicant as Annex No. 5 to the Applicant's request for access
gave his answer.
The Applicant also submitted that the Applicant referred in its reply letter, the Applicant
The data management information dated 24 May 2018 available on the website of the Company does not comply with the
It is incomplete as regards the provisions of the GDPR and certain aspects of data processing.
In the Applicant 's application, the establishment of the violations and the imposition of a data protection fine, as well as
asked the Authority to instruct the Applicant to “disclose the case
in the manner and with the content required by law ”.
The Authority has issued NAIH / 2019/6938/2. information on the case in its order number
requested the Applicant to clarify the facts.
According to the Applicant, the Applicant has contacted the Applicant's administrator several times
by telephone and in the hands of the Applicant during telephone conversations
also received information on documents. In support of this claim of the Applicant
attached the e-mail sent by the Applicant to the Applicant on 18 June 2015,
in which it responds to a telephone conversation with a previous Applicant and on 08 May 2019
prepared audio material in which the Applicant through the Applicant's telephone customer service
requested and received information about the debt owed to him.

3

The Applicant 's response to the Applicant' s request for access and information a
stated as follows: we really did not return in our letter of 10 September
detailed list of the documents kept in the file, but we referred to the fact that […]
The complete documentation of the personal loan with contract number has been handed over […] in Hungary
By branch. The detailed listing was not done because it was done on a mobile phone
During the discussions, it was agreed what kind of loan agreement, employer certificate,
Copies of personal documents, letters of resignation and letters of formal notice can be found in the file,
on the basis of which documents and loan agreement we demand from him the debt written in the letters of formal notice. ”
II. Applicable legal provisions
The relevant provisions of the GDPR in the present case are the following:
Article 5 (2) GDPR: The controller is responsible for complying with paragraph 1,
and must be able to demonstrate this compliance ("accountability").
Article 12 (4) GDPR: If the controller does not take action on the data subject's request
without delay, but no later than one month after receipt of the request
inform the data subject of the reasons for not taking action and that he or she is concerned
you can lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority and have the right to a judicial remedy.
Article 12 (5) GDPR: Information under Articles 13 and 14 and Articles 15 to 22 and Article 34
The information and action referred to in paragraph 1 shall be provided free of charge. If the request of the person concerned
clearly unfounded or, in particular due to its repetitive nature, excessive, the controller,
providing the requested information or information or taking the requested action
administrative costs:
(a) charge a reasonable fee, or
(b) refuse to act on the application.
The burden of proving that the request is manifestly unfounded or excessive is on the controller.
Article 15 (1) to (2) GDPR: The data subject has the right to receive feedback from the controller
whether your personal data is being processed and if so
data processing is in progress, entitled to personal data and the following
get access to information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
have been or will be communicated, including in particular to third country consignees, and
international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible,
criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request personal data concerning him or her from the controller
rectification, erasure or restriction on the processing of such personal data
against its treatment;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information on their source;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information about the significance of such data processing and what it is for the data subject
with expected consequences.
If personal data is transferred to a third country or to an international organization
the data subject is entitled to be informed of the transfer
appropriate guarantees in accordance with Article 46.

4

Article 58 (2) (b) and (d) GDPR: Acting in the corrective capacity of the supervisory authority:
(b) condemn the controller or the processor if he or she has breached his or her data processing activities
the provisions of this Regulation;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations, where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period, in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation
Article 77 (1) GDPR: Without prejudice to other administrative or judicial remedies,
all parties concerned shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority, in particular the
habitual residence, place of employment or in the Member State of the alleged infringement
- if the data subject considers that the processing of personal data concerning him or her infringes this Regulation.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2), the general data protection decree is indicated therein
shall apply with the additions provided for in
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data, and
the exercise of the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
free movement of personal data within the European Union
promoting. According to paragraph (2a) of the same § in the GDPR for the supervisory authority
established entities and entities under the jurisdiction of Hungary
as defined in the GDPR and this Act.
The Ákr. 51, if the authority
(b) the administrative time limit has expired and there was no need to take a decision with pending effect,
the amount corresponding to a fee or charge for the conduct of the proceedings, failing which ten thousand forints
pays the applicant client, who is also exempt from paying the costs of the proceedings.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject, initiate a data protection authority procedure.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (2), an application for the initiation of official data protection proceedings a
It may be submitted in the case specified in Article 77 (1) GDPR.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), it was taken in a data protection official proceeding
In its decision, the Authority With the data management operations specified in Section 2 (2)
in this context, the legal consequences set out in the General Data Protection Regulation
you can apply. According to Article 58 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory
authority shall condemn the controller or the processor if it acts as a data controller
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation or, in accordance with point (d) of the same paragraph,
the supervisory authority, acting in its corrective capacity, shall instruct the controller to
where appropriate, within a specified manner and within a specified period of time
with the provisions of this Regulation.
Unless otherwise provided by the GDPR, the data protection authority proceedings initiated upon request shall be
CL of 2016 on general administrative order. Act (hereinafter: Act)
shall apply with the exceptions specified in the Infotv.
Section 10 (1) of the Act: A customer is a natural or legal person, other organization to whom
(whose) right or legitimate interest is directly affected by the matter for whom the authority is
records contain data or who have been placed under official control.
Paragraph 35 (1) of the Act: The application is a statement of the client by which it is an official procedure

5

enforcement of his right or legitimate interest
in order to.
The Ákr. Pursuant to § 36, the application is a written or personal statement from the customer
requesting an official procedure or a decision of the authority in the interests of his right or legitimate interest
in order to enforce it.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 62 (4), the authority is free to choose the method of proof, and a
assess the available evidence in its sole discretion.
Infotv. 75 / A. §, the Authority shall comply with Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
shall exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by:
legislation on the processing of personal data or binding European Union law
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular
by alerting the controller or processor.
III. Decision
III.1. Obligation of the Applicant to provide information
Under Article 15 of the GDPR, the data subject has the right to have access to personal data processed about him or her
access information on data management. In the absence of adequate information, the
on the data controller's side, an information dominance may develop which the data subject may use
your rights and interests may be harmed. The data subject has, of course, a fundamental right in the handling of claims,
to monitor the processing of your personal data. According to Article 15 of the GDPR,
the controller must provide full information to data subjects about the processing of their personal data,
Thus, also in view of the content of the application, it is not sufficient for the individual
to refer only to personal data contained in registers and documents, and the so-called
Give the data subject a ‘template response’. The information shall be relevant to the data subject and
it must cover all personal data which the controller has in relation to the data subject
without restriction and regardless of where and in what form the data is located
available and what data processing operation you perform with them.
In this respect, the Applicant partially complied with its obligation to provide information, as
the content of the reply letter sent to the Applicant does not exhaust the items listed in Article 15 (1) (a) (f) and (h) of the GDPR. It does not include the purpose, legal basis, duration,
relevant personal data category and information on the personal data
communicated to third party recipients, information on the rights of the data subject is completely lacking,
as well as information on the right to appeal to a supervisory authority. THE
The Applicant provided incomplete information to the Applicant which did not comply with Article 15 of the GDPR.
Article 1 (1) (a) to (f) and (h).
According to the Applicant's statement, he did not provide complete information at the request of the Applicant
on the processing of personal data because “during negotiations on a mobile phone
what kind of loan agreement, employer's certificate, copies of personal documents,
a letter of termination or a letter of formal notice can be found in the file, what kind of documents, loan agreement
the debt written in the letters of formal notice ’. Although referred to by the Applicant
an audio recording of a telephone conversation was made on May 8, 2019, from the Statement of the Applicant
it does not appear that any further “telephone conversations” he made are in addition to the GDPR
occurred before or after its applicability and their content has not been proven.
Under Article 12 (5) of the GDPR, if the repeated nature of the data subject's request is excessive, it is
the controller may refuse to act on the request. Article 12 (4) of the GDPR

6

If the controller does not act on the data subject 's request, it shall inform the data subject
the reasons for not taking action and the possibility of lodging a complaint with one of the parties
supervisory authority and may exercise its right of judicial review. Response sent to the Applicant
However, it did not deny that the application was dismissed on the ground that it was excessive due to the repetitive nature of the application
The request for information requested and the reply were not included in Article 12 (4) of the GDPR.
that the Applicant may lodge a complaint about the rejection of the application
to the Authority and may exercise its right of judicial review.
The burden of proving that the request is excessive due to the repetitive nature of the request shall be on the controller, however
The Applicant did not prove that the Applicant's request was excessive due to its repetitive nature.
An audio recording of the telephone conversation referred to by the Applicant was made on 08 May 2019
According to the applicant, during the interview, the Applicant did not request information on the processing of his personal data, and
consequently, the Applicant did not provide any personal information to the Applicant by telephone
in connection with the processing of his / her data, as its subject matter is not provided by the Applicant to the Applicant
personal data processed for the purposes of the loan agreement
there was general information (e.g. request for information on installment payment, etc.) but only one
in any case, a request for access does not necessarily mean that the next request is excessive.
Pursuant to Article 5 (2) of the GDPR, the controller must be able to protect data
to demonstrate compliance with the rules. Although the Applicant filed on August 23, 2019
in any case, the information to be accessed was wider than relevant
information on “what kind of loan agreement, employer certificate, copies of personal documents,
letter of resignation or letters of formal notice are in the file ", the Applicant did not certify the
provided this information to the Applicant.
On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that the Applicant has violated Article 15 of the GDPR
Paragraph 1, because in its reply to the Applicant's request dated 23 August 2019, the
At the request of the applicant, it provided incomplete information which did not comply with Article 15 (1) of the GDPR.
paragraph 1 (a) to (f) and (h).
In view of the above, the Authority grants the Applicant's request in which the Applicant
infringement of the obligation to grant access, and
requested an obligation to provide the requested information.
III.2. Compliance of the data management information available on the Applicant's website with the GDPR
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (2) and Section 77 (1) of the GDPR, interested parties may request a
Initiation of data protection authority proceedings for violation of their rights under the GDPR.
The Applicant has generally applied in a non-affected capacity on the Applicant’s website
examination of the published data management information. The application is specifically for customers, concerned
protection of his rights as the purpose of the application.
Consequently, the Authority With regard to the basis of Section 46 (1) (a), the Act no. 47.
§ (1) a) according to the operative part.

7

III.3. The part of the application concerning the imposition of a data protection fine
The Authority rejected the Applicant's application for a fine, as e
the application of a legal sanction does not directly affect the rights or legitimate interests of the Applicant
such a decision of the Authority shall not create a right or an obligation;
the imposition of a fine with regard to the application of a sanction falling within the scope of the enforcement of the public interest
the Applicant does not qualify as a customer in accordance with Ákr. Pursuant to Section 10 (1), or -
whereas the Ákr. Does not comply with Section 35 (1), there is no application in this regard
this part of the application shall not be construed as an application.
III.4. Deadline exceeded
During the procedure, the authority exceeded the Infotv. One hundred and fifty days according to Section 60 / A (1)
administrative deadline, therefore Ákr. Pursuant to Section 51 b), it pays ten thousand forints to the Applicant.
III. 5. Legal Consequences
III.4.1. Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) of the GDPR, the Authority condemns a
Applicant for violating Article 15 (1) of the GDPR.
III.4.2. Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (c) of the GDPR, the Authority instructs the Applicant to:
In order to comply with the applicant's request for access, Article 15 (1) (a) to (f) and (h) of the GDPR
personal data handled by the Applicant
shall certify the fact that the information has been provided to the Authority
by sending a copy of the information to the addressee and a copy of the post office certifying that it has been sent by post.
ARC. Other issues:
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) determine the jurisdiction of the country
covers the whole territory.
The decision is based on Ákr. 80.-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). The decision is based on Ákr. § 82
Shall become final upon its communication pursuant to paragraph 1. The Ákr. § 112 and § 116 (1),
or pursuant to Section 114 (1), there is an administrative action against the decision
redress.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (11)
the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. 2016 on Civil Procedure
CXXX. Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Applicable pursuant to Section 26 (1) - Section 72 provides for legal representation in a case falling within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Kp. Section 39 (6)
unless otherwise provided by law, the date of filing of the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of an administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter referred to as the Customer's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b) of the E-Administration Act
obliged to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The trial
Information on the possibility of requesting the maintenance of the It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). THE

8

the amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter:
Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1)
and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party initiating the proceedings.
If the Applicant does not duly demonstrate the fulfillment of the required obligation, the Authority shall
considers that it has failed to fulfill its obligations within the prescribed period. The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor
has not complied with an obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, it shall be enforceable. The Authority
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final with the communication. The Ákr. The Ákr. Under Section 133, enforcement is the decision, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree
ordering authority. The Ákr. Section 134 of the Enforcement - if law, government decree
or in the case of a municipal authority, a decree of a local government does not provide otherwise
carried out by a state tax authority. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (7) in the decision of the Authority
to perform a specific act, conduct or tolerate a specific act
to stop
aimed at
obligation
with regard to
the
decision
implementation
the
Authority.
Budapest, February 24, 2020

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

