 
 
 
 
 
 
Our ref.: 11.17.001.010.172 
 

 
 

23 October 2023 

 

Decision 

 

Investigation of complaint under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 

 

 
A  complaint  was  lodged  with  the  Malta  DPA  against  Brivio  Limited  (hereinafter,  “the 
Controller”),  a  company  that  is  registered  in  Cyprus.  The  complaint  was  subsequently 
transmitted to the Office of the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter, 
“the Commissioner’s Office”) on 16/06/2022, in line with Article 56 of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter, “the GDPR”). 
 
2.  On  the  basis  of  the  above,  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection 
(hereinafter,  “the  Commissioner”)  is  acting  as  the  lead  authority  in  this  matter.  In  the 
course  of  the  investigation,  other  EU  countries  were  identified  as  being  concerned  by 
this case. 
 
 
Description of the case 
 
3.1.  The  complaint  was  lodged  by  XXXX  (hereinafter,  “the  Complainant”)  and  involves 
the  Controller’s  failure  to  comply  with  the  Complainant’s  access  request  (Article  15  of 
the GDPR). The complaint included the following information: 
 
3.2.  The  Complainant,  who  is  a  registered  user  on  the  online  casino  “icecasino.com” 
(hereinafter,  “the  website”),  contacted  the  Controller,  who  is  the  operator  of  the  said 
website  via  email  at  support@icecasino.com  on  22.02.2022,  requesting  that  he  is 
provided  with  information  regarding  all  personal  data  concerning  him,  payments  made 
and  casino  games  that  he  has  participated  in  on  the  website  as  is  his  legal  right 
according to Article 15 of the GDPR. Nevertheless, the Complainant claims that he had 
not  received  a  response  to  his  request  within  the  one-month  period  pursuant  to  the 
Article 12(3) and (4) of the GDPR. 
 
 
Investigation by Cyprus SA 
 
4.1. The Commissioner’s Office contacted the Controller on 05/09/2022 and requested 
the reason for not responding to the Complainant’s access request as well as any other 
information they deemed necessary. The Controller was also informed for the provisions 
of the Article 12(3) and (4) of the GDPR. 
 
4.2. In their reply, on 19/09/2022, the controller stated the following: 
 

ii. 

i.  On  22.02.2022,  the  Customer  Support  Team  (email  support@icecasino.com) 
received  an  email  from  the  Complainant  requesting  that  they  provide  the  latter 
with information regarding all personal data concerning him, including payments 
made and casino games that he had participated in. 
 
In course of the Controller’s internal investigation, it ascertained that despite the 
internal data protection policies and procedures of the Controller, the Customer 
Support  employee  failed  to  inform  the  Data  Protection  Team  regarding  this 
particular request. 
 
Taking into account the specifics of their business and to limit employees’ access 
to  the  customers’  personal  data,  they  have  intentionally  designated  a  separate 
team  for  privacy  matters.  Therefore,  their  customers  are  always  encouraged  to 
contact  the  Data  Protection  Team  directly  at  privacy@icecasino.com  in  case  of 
questions,  requests,  or  complaints.  Nevertheless,  following  the  GDPR,  the 
Controller  mentions  that  they  accept  data  protection  requests  via  all  available 
means  of  communication,  and  all  the  staff  interacting  with  customers  are 
instructed on how to reply to different types of data subject requests. 
 

iii. 

4.3.  Moreover,  to  effectively  deal  with  this  case  and  enhance  internal  technical  and 
organisational  measures  imposed  by  the  GDPR  to  be  in  a  position  to  reply  to  all 
demands  in  a  timely  manner,  the  Controller  informed  the  Commissioner’s  Office  that 
several corrective actions were applied: 
 

ii. 

i.  When  the  Data  Protection  Team  received  the  complaint,  they  immediately 
contacted  the  Complainant  and,  on  12.09.2022,  the  personal  data  were  sent to 
the  latter.  Therefore,  the  subject  access  request  has  been  fully  satisfied.  The 
Malta  SA  confirmed  that,  on  24/11/2022,  the  Complainant  access  request  was 
indeed fully satisfied. 
 
The privacy procedures have been reviewed and a new technical flow has been 
adopted  in  order  to  facilitate  the  cooperation  between  the  Customer  Support 
Team and the Data Protection Team and to ensure that all data subject requests 
are answered in a timely manner in the future.  
 
Additional training sessions have been conducted, for the staff who interacts with 
customers  and  instructions  have  been  granulated  as  to  how  the  staff  should 
reply to each type of request. 

iii. 

 
4.4. As requested by the Commissioner’s office, the Controller provided the former, on 
25.11.2022, with the following written evidence of the corrective measures taken: 
 

i. 

The Subject Access Request Procedure 

 

 

ii. 

iii. 

Screenshots  of  the  information  system  where  data  subject  requests  are 
processed 

The educational content of the course on ‘Privacy and Customer Service’ which 
all members of the Customer Support Team were obliged to complete, as well as 
proof of completion by the staff. 

 
4.5. Furthermore, the Controller informed the Commissioner’s office about the updated 
workflow, according to which, the members of the Customer Support Team, immediately 
after  receiving  the  data  subject  request,  they  recognize  and  identify  the  data  subject 
request  among  other  messages,  ask  security  questions  to  verify  the  data  subject 

 

2 

identity, create a service ticket in the information system and assign a service ticket to 
the Data Protection Team. After that, the Data Protection Team takes all the necessary 
actions to implement the data subject's rights in a timely manner. 
 
 
Preliminary Decision 
 
5.1.  On  06/07/2023,  the  Commissioner  issued  a  Preliminary  Decision  and  concluded 
that: 
 

i. 

ii. 

 

iii. 

There  is  an  infringement  of  the  Article  12(3)  of  the  GDPR,  since  the  Controller 
failed to satisfy the Complainant’s access request and comply with the provisions 
of the aforementioned Article. 
 
The Controller’s immediate actions to satisfy the access request, as well as the 
corrective measures taken after receiving notice for the complaint, are taken into 
consideration. 

It  is  worth  mentioning  that  a  similar  complaint  against  the  Controller  had  been 
lodged  to  the  Austria  SA  and  thereafter  received  by  the  Commissioner’s  office. 
The  complaint  was  referred  to  the  Controller’s  failure  to  respond  to  an  access 
request exercised by an attorney on behalf of a data subject, since no additional 
information  was  requested  to  assure  that  the  said  attorney  was  entitled  to 
represent  the  data  subject.  Considering  the  fact  that  the  Controller  eventually 
complied  with  the  access  request,  the  Commissioner  was  of  the  view  that  the 
mere  delay  appears  to  be  a  minor  infringement  which  only  slightly  affected  the 
data subject’s rights and freedoms. Therefore, the Commissioner considered that 
the  investigation  proceedings  could  be  concluded  as  no  further  supervisory 
measure  was  necessary  at  that  stage.  The  information  about  the  case 
conclusion was sent to the Controller on 05.01.2023. 

 
5.2. The Commissioner invited the Controller, as by 03/08/2023 at the latest, to state the 
reasons  why  they  believe  they  should  not  be  sanctioned  and/or  any  mitigating  factors 
that they believe should be taken into account before a Decision was issued. 
 
5.3.  On  the  07/07/2023,  the  Controller  informed  the  Commissioner  that  they  would 
answer  within  the  set  period.  However,  the  Commissioner  sent  a  reminder,  on 
04/09/2023, since no such response was received within the deadline. 
 
5.4.  The  Controller  responded  on  04/09/2023  to  the  Preliminary  Decision  and  stated, 
inter alia, the following: 
 

i. 

The Complainant’s right to access was completely fulfilled. 
Despite the initial delay in responding to the Complainant, upon becoming aware 
of  the  request,  the  Controller  promptly  reached  out  to  the  Complainant  and 
completely fulfilled their request. Consequently, the former actively played a role 
in mitigating the effects of delayed response on the latter’s rights and freedoms. 
By successfully fulfilling the Complainant’s access rights, the Controller did their 
best in these circumstances to effectively meet the objectives of Article 15 of the 
GDPR.  The  Complainant,  upon  receiving  the  comprehensive  response  to  their 
request,  did  not  assert  any  claims  concerning  their  data  protection  rights.  The 
Controller  believes  that  this  demonstrates  the  effectiveness  of  their  efforts  in 
addressing  the  situation  promptly  and  thoroughly,  and  they  consider  the  matter 
to  be  resolved  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Complainant.  They  believe  that  the 
essence of data protection regulations is to safeguard the rights and freedoms of 

 

3 

ii. 

iii. 

individuals,  and  in  this  case  the  Complainant’s  rights  were  protected  and  their 
request fulfilled. 
 
 
 
 
The Controller  enhanced their internal policies  and procedures concerning data 
subject rights. 
To  ensure  timely  responses  to  data  subject  requests,  the  Controller  has 
introduced  a  range  of  corrective  measures,  encompassing  both  organisational 
and technical improvements. Such measures include: 

 

revision  of  the  Subject  Access  Request  Procedure  and  update  of  the 
company’s workflow concerning the data subject requests; 

  setting  up  a  new  technical  flow  for  cooperation  between  the  Customer 

 

Support Team and the Data Protection Team; 
improvement  of  internal  compliance  training  ‘Privacy  and  Customer 
Service’ mandatory for all members of the Customer Support Team; 

  conducting  additional  training  sessions  for  the  staff  interacting  with  the 

customers, to remind them of the privacy policies and procedures. 

Due  to  these  improvements,  the  Controller  successfully  avert  delays  in 
responding  to  data  subject  requests,  ensuring  compliance  with  Article  12(3)  of 
the GDPR. 
 
The  Controller  actively  cooperated  with  the  Commission  throughout  the 
investigation process. 
Demonstrating  openness  and 
the 
Commission  with  comprehensive  explanations  regarding  the  case,  along  with 
supporting  evidence  of  the  corrective  measures  implemented.  Thus,  the 
Controller  contributed  to  an  effective  investigation  through  every  available 
means. Considering all mentioned above, they believe that in this case, holding 
the  company  accountable  is  excessively  burdensome  and  disproportionate, 
taking into account the fact that the resolution of the matter left the Complainant 
satisfied,  and  given  the  company’s  endeavors  to  remain  compliant  with  the 
GDPR  and  transparent  with  the  Commission  throughout  the  investigation 
process. 

the  Controller  provided 

transparency, 

 
 
Legal framework 
 
6.1. Article 58 of the GDPR: 
 

“1. Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following investigative powers: 
(a) to order the controller and the processor, and, where applicable, the controller's 
or  the  processor's  representative  to  provide  any  information  it  requires  for  the 
performance of its tasks; […] 
 
2. Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers: 
 
(a)  to  issue  warnings  to  a  controller  or  processor  that  intended  processing 
operations are likely to infringe provisions of this Regulation; 

(b) to issue reprimands to a controller or a processor where processing operations 
have infringed provisions of this Regulation; 

 

4 

(c) to order the controller or the processor to comply with the data subject's requests 
to exercise his or her rights pursuant to this Regulation; 

(d)  to  order  the  controller  or  processor  to  bring  processing  operations  into 
compliance with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a specified 
manner and within a specified period; […] 

(f) to impose a temporary or definitive limitation including a ban on processing; […] 

(i) to impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83, in addition to, or instead 
of measures referred to in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances of each 
individual case; […]” 

6.2. Article 15 of the GDPR: 
 

“1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as 
to  whether  or  not  personal  data  concerning  him  or  her  are  being  processed,  and, 
where that is the case, access to the personal data and the following information: 
 
(a) the purposes of the processing; 
(b) the categories of personal data concerned; 
(c) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or 
will  be  disclosed,  in  particular  recipients  in  third  countries  or  international 
organisations; 
(d) where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, 
or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 
(e) the existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or erasure of 
personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  of  personal  data  concerning  the  data 
subject or to object to such processing; 
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 
(g)  where  the  personal  data  are  not  collected from  the  data  subject,  any  available 
information as to their source; 
(h)  the  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  including  profiling,  referred  to  in 
Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the 
logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such 
processing for the data subject. […] 
 
3. The controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. 
For  any  further  copies  requested  by  the  data  subject,  the  controller  may  charge  a 
reasonable  fee  based  on  administrative  costs.  Where  the  data  subject  makes  the 
request  by  electronic means,  and  unless  otherwise  requested  by  the  data  subject, 
the information shall be provided in a commonly used electronic form”. 

 
6.3. Article 12(3) of the GDPR: 
 

“The controller shall provide information on action taken on a request under Articles 
15 to 22 to the data subject without undue delay and in any event within one month 
of receipt of the request. That period may be extended by two further months where 
necessary,  taking  into  account  the  complexity  and  number  of  the  requests.  The 

 

5 

controller  shall  inform  the  data  subject  of  any  such  extension  within  one  month  of 
receipt of the request, together with the reasons for the delay. […]” 

that, 

fulfilled 

I  consider 

their  request.  Nevertheless, 

 
 
Views of the Commissioner 
 
7.1.  After  reviewing  the  information  provided  by  the  Controller,  in  their response  to my 
Preliminary Decision, I consider the following: 
 
7.2.  Regarding  what  the  Controller  states,  in  paragraph  5.4.i.  above,  I  take  into 
consideration  that  the  Controller  promptly  reached  out  to  the  Complainant  and 
completely 
the  Controller 
understands  that  the  request  could  have  been  satisfied  from  the  first  instance  if  the 
appropriate  organizational  and  technical  measures  were  in  place  and  the  staff  was 
properly trained in dealing with GDPR requests in a timely manner.  
 
7.3.  Moreover,  regarding  the  claims  of  the  Controller  that,  the  Complainant,  upon 
receiving  the  comprehensive  response  to  their  request,  did  not  assert  any  claims 
concerning  their  data  protection  rights  and  that  the  resolution  of  the  matter  left  the 
Complainant satisfied, I would like to point out that, the Data Protection Team got aware 
of  the  access  request  and  the  Controller  satisfy  the  request,  after  the  Complainant 
lodged a complaint with my Office. 
 
7.4.  As  for  the  corrective  measures,  mentioned  in  paragraph  5.4.ii.  above,  which  the 
Controller has taken in order to be in a position to reply all demands in a timely manner,  
are also favorably considered.  
 
7.5.  Regarding 
term 
“Commission”, the Controller means my Office. Consequently, I accept the claim of the 
Controller  that  they  actively  cooperated  with  my  Office  throughout  the  investigation 
process, despite the fact that, they had not responded to the Preliminary Decision in a 
timely manner. 
 
 
Decision 
 
8.1. In the view of all the above facts, I find that there is a violation of the Article 12(3) of 
the GDPR, for the reasons mentioned above. 
 
8.2. Considering both the following moderating (a-d) and aggravating (e-h) factors: 
 

the  paragraph  5.4.iii.  above, 

I  understand 

that,  by 

the 

a.  the eventual and prompt satisfaction of the access request; 
b.  the corrective measures taken regarding the handling of data subject requests; 
c. 
d.  the minor infringement on the Complainant’s rights and freedoms; 
e.  the Controller’s Data Protection Team only became aware of the access request 

the Controller’s cooperation in the investigation process; 

after being notified of the complaint by my Office; 
the non-satisfaction of the access request according to the Article 12(3); 

f. 
g.  the non-existence of appropriate measures in order to deal with GDPR requests 

in a timely manner; 

h.  the existence of a previous similar violation by the Controller; 

 
and based on the corrective powers granted to me according to the Article 58(2) of the 
GDPR,  including  “(b)  to  issue  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  a  processor  where 
processing operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation”, 

 

6 

 
the Commissioner decided to issue a reprimand to Brivio Limited to ensure that in 
the future it handles the data subject rights in accordance with the provisions of 
the Article 12(3). 
 
8.3. It is understood that in case of a similar incident, this will be handled more strictly 
and  the  present  complaint  will  be  taken  into  consideration  on  taking  any  supervisory 
measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 

 

7 

