1/9

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00341/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated 05/17/2018, TWO CLAIMS are received from two members
of the Ertzaintza whose data appear in the GENERAL ANNEX for alleged infringement of the
data protection regulations against the METROPOLITAN GYM of c/ Masustegui
25 in Bilbao, for having a video surveillance camera on the facade of their establishment
that captures not only the access door, but disproportionately the public thoroughfare, and the
Images thus obtained have been transferred to the internal affairs unit, which in turn
yields to the instructor of a disciplinary file. They add that, following a complaint from a
citizen, the internal affairs unit observed that said camera existed and without "order
judicial” or “criminal act sent a letter requesting the image” to the director of the
Gym.

They attach:

- copy of the document requesting the images by the Internal Affairs Service of the
Ertzaintza of 11/11/2016 in which it indicates that it is a police service whose functions include
is to direct, coordinate and develop research regarding the behavior
professional staff of the Ertzaintza to promote those
susceptible to recognition and prevent those contrary to the law or professional ethics. I know
specifies the date and time of the images requested by a possible action by
of three agents that apparently could be picked up by the existing cameras in that
gymnasium, c/ Masustegui 25 in Bilbao.

-copy of delivery of the images signed by the representative of the gym to
11/15/2016. It is indicated that the content delivered by the director of the gym is a
pendrive with two separate video files.

-copy of a photograph of a video surveillance camera, located on the exterior facade
focusing on the entire side of the sidewalk. Indicates that your data is in an image of the
video, providing a photo in annex III that is produced on public roads around 5:50 p.m.
hours of 10/28/2016. The image allows visualizing the entire width of the sidewalk
only at the door of the gym but the side more than 20 meters taking the entire
sidewalk more than three meters wide, and all of the two directions of traffic.
Four people appear on the sidewalk, the complainants indicating that they are two,
they remain with other people on the sidewalk.

SECOND: The claims of claimants 1 and 2 (R1 and R2 hereinafter) were
transferred, the R2 was sent a copy of the full complaint on 07/05/2018 so that the claimed
know all its elements. The delivery contains the literal:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

“This Agency has received a communication in which it is shown
the existence of a video surveillance installation of its ownership, which presents some
deficiencies in compliance with the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data, which can be consulted on the website www.aepd.es, through the section
Areas of action (video surveillance).

So that the Agency can assess the actions carried out by you
for the adequacy of the system to the aforementioned requirements, I require that, within the maximum period
of one month from receipt of this notification, send to this Agency
detailed documentation that can prove that the aforementioned installation is in accordance with the
data protection regulations and that, in particular, is duly marked and has been
limited the capturing of images of adjoining land and houses or of any other
foreign space, providing recent graphic documents duly dated. “

THIRD: A R 1, the AEPD informs you in writing of 06/20/2018 the receipt of your
claim and that it has required the "claimed party so that within a month he informs the
Agency of the actions carried out for the adequacy of the installation of
video surveillance affected by the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.”
The same information is provided to R2.

FOURTH: The claim regarding the transfer of the claim of R 1, indicates 07/04/2018,
that since the location of the claim is not identified, said address must be provided.
information, as they have 22 and are managed independently.

On 07/20/2018, the respondent indicates that they received a request for information
on R1 on video surveillance system on 06/22/2018, but they have not identified the
headquarters of the gym and having sent to the electronic headquarters clarification of which headquarters
refers to the request without having answered, sends those from the Bilbao headquarters because "today that's how
Has informed us". Send photographs of the Bilbao Begoña headquarters, showing:

- CAM 1-1 “club facade” located on the facade and placed next to a sign
appears focusing on the public road, sidewalk, corresponding to the one that has been the object
of complaint. It does not provide the images that result from said camera, though.

It also provides images of the gym at another address called ISOZAKI, which

It has 16 cameras, highlighting

CAMERAS (reception) 7 parking entrance, and 13 garage exit in which you can see from
excessively the public road, being able to see in the first any person who crosses
the entrance space when the doors are open, and in 10 the same, with the width of the
entire sidewalk.

Although it provides sketches with the cameras, none of them contain the number

assigned

FIFTH: The claim, dated 07/27/2018, regarding R2 indicates that the director of the
gym delivered the flash drive with a copy of a recording whose request was received by
written, “because they try to collaborate with the security forces and bodies for the sake of what
It is intended in its public function, protection of goods and people and security. Add that
“the delivery of the recordings to discern the responsibility of some agents in some
acts denounced by a citizen is sufficient reason to comply with said request.”
In addition, "according to the new RGPD they are obliged to provide said images to the Forces and
State Security Bodies without the need for authorization from the affected party.”

3/9

Indicates that the recording comes from a camera installed outside the Club, in
the facade of a hotel -formerly HOLIDAY INN, currently Barceló- that records the entrances to the
Club, but not "much of the public road" as stated. They detail that in the recording
that is provided in the claim, you can see an inclination higher than the current one that has already
been corrected and they recognize that if it collected images from the sidewalk, but that it responded in
those times to a request for direction from the former hotel chain HOLIDAY INN
for reasons of serious damage that occurred with some regularity in the facade or
due to strikes by its staff, "a situation that did not end until the month of
June 2018 when an agreement has been reached with all parties”. Currently the
camera has been positioned so that it fits the entrance of the Club.

Attached document 1 and 2, in 1 the camera is displayed on the facade with an angle
more closed orientation, and in 2, the image, which, due to the place where it is installed
focuses towards the door, being different the surface of space of the images that
contributed by the complainants who collected more space from public roads, the entire part
ahead of the sidewalk.

It accompanies photos of the camera of the facade METROPOLITAN Begoña CAM I-1

street club entrance.

They provide documents 3 to 6 that consist of photographs in which, according to the
claimed, due to the incidents that occurred, caused the recording angle to be widened
of the cameras with dissuasive character, seeing in the images stones on the ground.

They send the links that lead to press information about the events that
motivated the positioning of the security camera on the facade at that time,
in the case of news links from the years 2013 to March 2017, the last one.

SIXTH: In relation to R2, on 08/29/2018 the respondent was sent a written request for
additional information indicating:

“In relation to the document sent in response to the request for information made

by this Agency, you are informed that there are certain aspects that need to be clarified.

For this reason, within ten working days from the notification of the
this request, you must complement the documentation initially sent by providing
the next information:

- Photographs of the images recorded by each of the twelve cameras
interiors installed in the Metropolitan Begoña gymnasium as shown in the
monitoring system.

The respondent responds on 09/13/2018, 9:42, (3683-2018) about R2 providing

several photographs.

In another writing of 09/13/2018, 9:48, there is a photo of an image of the outside in the
that appears 2018/09/05 that is obtained with the exterior camera 1 attached to the object facade
of the complaint, being able to see the public road in excess, reaching the entire sidewalk to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

half of the parking area for motorcycle use. This image is the same as the
written on 07/27/2018.

SEVENTH: On 11/5/2018, R 1 is notified of the claim being processed.
 
EIGHTH: On 01/23/2019, the director of the AEPD agreed to start a
sanctioning procedure against METROPOLITAN SPAIN SL for the infringement of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

        For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of the LPACAP, in the initiation agreement, the
The proposed sanction was a warning, provided for in the RGPD, article 58.2.b),
also adding:

a) REQUIRE the respondent to immediately comply with the following measures:

- Refocusing of camera 1 (Bilbao Begoña gym) outside in the direction of the

facade that captures the least space necessary for surveillance purposes.

- Refocus or change of position of cameras 7 and 13 (gymnasium of Bilbao

Isozaki).

b) the inclusion in the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, of the claim
filed by the claimant and their documentation, the documents obtained and generated
by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the investigation phase,
all of them part of the file.

NINTH: On 02/08/2019 the defendant states:

a) At the Bilbao Begoña headquarters, they have solved the issue satisfactorily, providing

copy of the image that is now viewed, in which the public road is not seen.

b) At the ISOZAKI headquarters, they have readjusted the cameras that focused from the
parking lot out, they provide focus reduction photo exclusively to the
interior of camera 7 and copy of the image that is now viewed from camera 13
in which there is no public road.

TENTH: On 05/13/2018, a resolution proposal is issued, of the tenor:

“That the director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency declare that
METROPOLITAN SPAIN, SL, with NIF B62936737, has infringed article 5.1.c) of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, imposing a sanction of warning, of
in accordance with article 58.2. b of the GDPR.”

No complaints were received against it.

ELEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have
The following proven facts have been established:

1) The defendant manages several gyms, including the headquarters

Bilbao, c Masustegui 25, and the Bilbao ISOZAKI headquarters.

5/9

2) In the Bilbao headquarters there is a camera attached to the facade, near the entrance door.
access, next to a poster, which appears focusing on the public road, corresponding
with which it has been the object of the claim that was accredited that in writing of the claimed
of 09/13/2018, 9:48, in the photo obtained on 09/2018/05 part of the road is taken in excess
public, reaching the entire sidewalk to the middle of the parking area for the use of
motorcycles. In pleadings to the agreement, the respondent states that he has resolved the issue and
credits it with the photo of the image that is provided, satisfying the excess of focus of the
public road.

3) At the Bilbao ISOZAKI headquarters, it was verified that at the time of opening this
procedure there were two cameras that focused excessively on public roads, camera 7
and 13, having stated in pleadings to the agreement the claimed one, the errors have been corrected.
excesses of collection of part of the public road in chamber 7 of ISOZAKI headquarters and correcting
the approaches of the other two cameras, providing photos of said images.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, in accordance with the provisions of section 2 of article 56 in relation to section
1 f) of article 57, both of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to
processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (hereinafter,
GDPR); and in article 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

II

Regarding the claim for the transfer of the images by the gym to the service
of internal affairs of the Police, it must be indicated that it constitutes a transfer of data to a
third, which requires either legal protection, or be listed by the petitioner associated with the
exercise of a legal obligation, which in this case could be the complaint of a citizen.

II

Article 5.1.c of the RGPD establishes:

“Personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which

that are processed (“data minimization”);”

The defendant has a series of cameras to monitor its facilities,
element that is allowed according to article article 22 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD) indicates: "Processing for video surveillance purposes

1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the treatment
of images through camera systems or video cameras in order to preserve
the safety of people and goods, as well as its facilities.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is

essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section”

As a general rule, capturing images for security purposes, by the
public thoroughfare must be carried out by the Security Forces and Bodies, since it corresponds to them
the prevention of criminal acts and the guarantee of security in the aforementioned public thoroughfare,
in accordance with what is regulated by Organic Law 4/1997, of 4/08, and its Regulation of
developing. This rule admits some exceptions since on some occasions, for the
protection of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or in the
inside, it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is essential
for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. Therefore,
cameras could exceptionally capture a portion minimally necessary to
the intended security purpose.

Considering that the expectation of the installation of a camera that monitors the area
of access door to the gym or the entrance-exit parking spaces is not that
any citizen who circulates around the area can be captured by the mere
fact of going through there, it is considered that in the present case it was excessively captured
public thoroughfare with three chambers corresponding to two offices in Bilbao.

In the case of the gym, Bilbao Begoña headquarters, the camera that is located above the door
input on one side, focused and collected excessive images on one long side
in addition to the access door, and in image width it covered the entire sidewalk. Both
ISOZAKI cameras mentioned allowed to view images that made possible the
identification of people who pass through said space of public road being able in both
cases, refocus or readapt them to capture the minimum necessary space,
circumstance that has met the claim.
III

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for treatment, including the conditions for consent under articles
5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the
aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of a maximum of €20,000,000 or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates: "Infringements considered very serious

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

7/9

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of powers
corrective measures, among which is the power to impose fines, in the event that
there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD.

“sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation” (art. 58.2 b) RGPD).

The sanction to be imposed must be graded according to the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with recital 148 of the RGPD itself, which provides for the
possibility of punishing with a warning in certain circumstances.

In the present case, it has been taken into account for the application of the warning that
these are gym facilities that require security and there is legitimacy for the
installation and collection of images, being excesses of what the norm would allow, having
been corrected

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE METROPOLITAN SPAIN, SL, with NIF B62936737, for a
violation of Article 5 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of
warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to METROPOLITAN SPAIN, SL. with the
GENERAL ANNEX.

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

CLAIMANT 1

GENERAL ANNEX

9/9

A.A.A.

CLAIMANT 2
BBB

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

