1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00334/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimant) dated December 13,
January 2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data. The claim is directed against Ms. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.2 (hereinafter, the
claimed).

The claimant states that a former employee has used the data of her

clients for their own benefit, after the termination of their contractual relationship.

And, provide the following documentation:

- Data access contract between the parties.
- Notification of the claimed party that it ceases to provide its services.
-
-

Cancellation of appointments of your clients.
Burofax warning the respondent that she cannot use it for profit
own the list of clients provided by the claimant.

- Complaint from a client, expressing her discomfort at being in the group of

WhatsApp created by the claimed to publish their products.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of the LOPGDD, which has provided for a
mechanism prior to the admission to processing of the claims that are formulated before
the AEPD, consisting of transferring them to the Data Protection Delegates
designated by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, for the purposes foreseen
in article 37 of the aforementioned rule, or to these when they were not designated, it was given
transfer of the claim to the claimed entity so that it proceeded to its analysis and
respond to the complaining party and to this Agency within a month.

THIRD: On March 13, 2020, the respondent was asked to provide
to this Agency the following information:

1. The decision made regarding this claim.
2. In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to

22 of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.
Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated
the claim.
Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents, dates of implementation and controls carried out to
check its effectiveness.

3.

Four.

5. Any other that you consider relevant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

The petition was notified to the respondent by post, the date of delivery being
of the notification on June 15, 2020, as evidenced by the certificate issued by
the postal service, so that it could respond to this Agency and to the claimant
within a month.

In the response submitted by the respondent on July 13, 2020, the

content mentioned in it.

On August 13, 2020, the request for information is reiterated and on August 1,
September of this year, the respondent states that on July 13, 2020, she contributed
allegations and supporting documents, not recorded in this Agency.

In accordance with the provisions of article 65.2 of the LOPDGDD, dated
September 24, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agrees to accept the processing of this claim.

FOURTH: On October 21, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure for the claim, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that: "I comply with the duty imposed
by art. 6.1 of the RGPD, obtaining the consent of the clients when they
I request the personal data, through the legal text that is attached as proof and
everyone signs at the time”.

SIXTH: On December 14, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous actions, as well as the documents provided by the claimed party.

SEVENTH: On February 16, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
sanction the claimed party, for an infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

EIGHTH
 : Once the proposed resolution was notified, the respondent filed a written
 
of allegations March 23, 2021, stating: “That I fully abide by said
proposal and I accept the sanction of warning. That I have adopted the procedures
collection of consent provided for in the law as provided in art. 6.1 GDPR.
That there are no data in my files on the claimant's clients who have not
been collected in accordance with the legitimizing basis for it, in accordance with the regulations
in art. 6.1 a) of the RGPD”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On January 13, 2020, the claimant files a claim before
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, stating that a former employee has
used the data of its clients, without having legitimacy to do so.

SECOND: There is a Burofax warning the respondent that she cannot use it to
own benefit the list of clients provided by the claimant, and complaint of a
client, stating "at no time have I given permission to transfer my data,
what's more, I thought it was protected by the data protection platform”.
THIRD: The defendant has provided in this sanctioning procedure the
stockings you have adopted.

FOURTH: On March 23, 2021, the party claimed in his writ of
allegations to the proposed resolution recognizes the facts and agrees with
the sanction imposed, and states: "That I fully abide by said proposal and accept
the warning sanction. That I have adopted the collection procedures for
consent provided by law as provided in art. 6.1 GDPR.
That there are no data in my files on the claimant's clients who have not
been collected in accordance with the legitimizing basis for it, in accordance with the regulations
in art. 6.1 a) of the RGPD”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of the
Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

III

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD provide the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it is processing data of the
clients of the entity in which he worked, without having the legitimacy to do so.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

In this sense, the claimant submits the complaint made by a
client affected by the processing of their personal data without legitimate basis, in the
message states “I have never given permission to transfer my data,
what's more, I thought it was protected by the data protection platform”.

Therefore, the defendant does not prove the legitimacy for the treatment of the

Claimant's customer data.

v

Formally notified of the proposed resolution, the respondent presented
pleadings brief on March 23, 2021, stating: “That I abide by your
said proposal in its entirety and I accept the sanction of warning. that I have adopted
procedures for collecting consent provided for in the law as provided by the
art. 6.1 GDPR.
That there are no data in my files on the claimant's clients who have not
been collected in accordance with the legitimizing basis for it, in accordance with the regulations
in art. 6.1 a) of the RGPD”.

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP),
under the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the
Next:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
let it proceed”.

Therefore, based on the foregoing, the Director of the Agency

Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Ms. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.2, for an infraction of Article
6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Ms. B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

