

Bonn/Berlin, March 12, 2020


Press release 06/2020


BfDI on the death of Burkhard Hirsch
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber pays tribute to the former Interior Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia Burkhard Hirsch:

Burkhard Hirsch was human, an outstanding personality for the democratic constitutional state and not least for data protection. Among other things, he won the decisions of the Federal Constitutional Court on the Federal Criminal Police Office Act and on data retention. We will not forget his achievement and contribution to civil rights.
Burkhard Hirsch was a role model for many of us who work today in the area of data protection and the limitation of state intervention in the informational self-determination of citizens. His question 'How is individual freedom supposed to exist without social freedom?' stands for resistance to ever new so-called security laws and the mixing of the tasks of the police and intelligence services.
According to the North Rhine-Westphalian Ministry of the Interior, the FDP politician died on Wednesday at the age of 89.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











