

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the security of customers' personal data (the company O2 Czech Republic a.s.)



Based on the Office's control plan, the Office carried out a security check of the personal data of customers of O2 Czech Republic a.s. As part of the inspection, two other initiatives, the content of which was related to the subject of the inspection, were also examined.

Controlled person, as administrator of personal data according to § 4 letter j) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., processes personal data of its clients in the sense of § 4 letter e) Act No. 101/2000 Coll. for the purpose of providing telecommunication services. If a processor is entrusted with the processing of personal data, a contract on the processing of personal data is concluded between the administrator and the processor, which corresponds to the requirements of § 6 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (processing contract).

The Office came to the conclusion that the inspected person proceeded in the field of security in accordance with § 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (security of personal data).

The inspected person makes copies of parts of the identity cards. The Office found that the controlled person processes the data indicated on the identity card to the extent that results from legal regulations and for the purpose of fulfilling the contract. For this reason, this is the kind of processing of personal data that does not require the consent of the data subject. The controlled person processes these personal data in accordance with § 5 paragraph 1 letter d) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., thus collects only personal data corresponding to the specified purpose and to the extent necessary to fulfill the specified purpose.

The Office further concluded that the inspected person has a legitimate interest in payment for the services provided in the sense of § 5 paragraph 2 letter e) Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and is therefore entitled to use the person's personal contact information in order to inform them of the need to pay the given amount.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by inspector Ing. Josef Vacula.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of customer personal data security (O2 Czech Republic a.s. company)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



