
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07/19/2019
                                Current security incident shows the vulnerability of hospital IT©
                            Elchinator / pixabay.com A current security incident shows once again how vulnerable hospitals are becoming with the increasing digitization of their processes and what risks their IT structures and treatment processes are exposed to. As with similar incidents in recent years, a number of facilities of the DRK Trägergesellschaft Südwest have recently been infected with malware. The resulting encryption of data in the IT network of the sponsoring company has led to far-reaching impairments in hospital operations. In accordance with the obligation under Art. 33 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation, the sponsoring company has reported the violation of the protection of personal data to the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) as the responsible supervisory authority. The State Commissioner then initiated a formal procedure to clarify the matter. “Information technology is indispensable in the administrative and medical processes for modern patient care. However, the current incident shows how vulnerable hospitals are becoming with the digitization of their processes and how important it is therefore to take suitable and effective precautions to protect patient data as a preventative measure," says the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Prof. Dr. Kugelman. “IT structures and patient data must therefore have sufficient resilience to cyber attacks and appropriate protection. Otherwise, there is a risk of damage to the health and data protection of patients and economic damage. "Hospitals that are considered "critical infrastructure (KRITIS)" due to the number of treatment cases are already subject to the requirements of information security law to take certain security precautions . In this context, the German Hospital Society has created the industry-specific security standard for information security in hospitals. "The need to protect critical infrastructures is beyond doubt," says Prof. Kugelmann, "the right of patients to have their data protected from damage cannot be made dependent on the number of treatments, but must always be guaranteed in all inpatient facilities. Therefore, the requirements of data protection and information security coincide in this context. Facilities below the KRITIS threshold must therefore also provide suitable state-of-the-art protective measures. The EU General Data Protection Regulation obliges you to do so." Further information: Security in the information technology of critical infrastructures (§ 8a BSI law) German Hospital Society: Industry-specific security standard for healthcare in hospitals
                                return
                            



