Alt-Moabit 140
10557 Berlin

Phone +49 30 18 681-11022
Phone +49 30 18 681-11023
Phone +49 30 18 681-11089

presse@bmi.bund.de
www.bmi.bund.de
 
Responsible:
Steve Alter
 
Editorial staff:
Bjorn Grunewalder
dr Markus Lammert
Alina Vick
dr Mark Wede

 

press release

  

January 26, 2021
Page 1 of 3
 

 
International data traffic in the focus of the European data
protection days
 
40th Anniversary of the Council of Europe Convention 108 on Data Protection
 
On the occasion of European Data Protection Day and to celebrate the 40th anniversary
representatives of the Council of Europe's Data Protection Convention 108
and representatives from politics, the judiciary and administration on January 28, 2021 by Vi-
deo transmission together to discuss the challenges of the international
to exchange national data transfers.
 
More than 900 participants have already registered
de. The advancing digitization and globalization throw in the
With regard to international data traffic, numerous data protection
legal questions raised at the event from the point of view of data protection
Convention 108+ and the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
The digital conference is organized by the Federal Ministry of the Interior, for Building and
Heimat and the Conference of Independent Data Protection Supervisors
federal and state authorities (DSK).
 
Stephan Mayer, Parliamentary State Secretary to the Federal Minister of
Inside, for building and homeland, the conference will open at 1 p.m.:
“We are in extremely challenging times and the corona pandemic
demands a lot from all of us. In the last few weeks and months it has
The topic of digitization has acquired particular importance. our life has
is shifting more and more into the digital space. Especially this latest development
development shows how important data protection is in connection with the
emerging and rapidly advancing digitization. The data protection con-
vention 108 has been an essential companion over the past four decades
been what the advancement of data protection in Europe, but also
beyond that. The transfer of data – the topic of the event
tion – is an aspect of our
entire economic life.”
 
The Saxon data protection officer Andreas Schurig, who
office held in 2020, explains: “The protection of personal data is
in the 40 years since the data protection convention 108
been. Data protection should be self-determination and freedom in a digitized
ensure the environment. This is not only evident in the case of transmissions in insecure

page 2 of 3
 
third countries, but also and especially in the current corona pandemic
mie, in which, for example, the creation of movement patterns from
dydate is discussed."
 
Monika Grethel, current DSK Chairwoman and State Commissioner for
data protection and freedom of information in Saarland, emphasizes: "It is currently drawing
us as Europeans, that we are individuals and that we protect their fundamental rights
don't lose sight of it. Progress must also be sustainable in the digital world
be. Data protection fulfills this purpose. We should therefore accept the judgment of
ECJ in the Schrems II case as a wake-up call towards more digital sovereignty
stand. It is a commitment to our European values that already exist
four decades in the data protection convention of the Council of Europe
have found a blow."
 
Other speakers are:

 Marija Pejčinović Burić, Secretary General of the Council of Europe
 Dr. H. c. Tim Eicke QC, Judge at the European Court of Justice

human rights

 Aleid Wolfsen, deputy Chairman of the European Data
protection committee and chairman of the Dutch data
Protection Inspectorate Autoriteit Persoonsgegevens

 Prof. Dr. dr h.c. Thomas von Danwitz, Judge at the Court of Justice

European Union

 Alessandra Pierucci, Chair of the Conventions Committee

the Council of Europe’s Data Protection Convention 108 (T-PD)

 
The event will be moderated by TV journalist Ralph Szepanski and
can on January 28, 2021 from 1 p.m. at www.bmi.bund.de/convention108
be followed live.
 
The opening of the signing of the data protection convention 108 of the EU
roparats took place on January 28, 1981. Around this date since
2007 the annual European Data Protection Day. The data protection convention
tion 108 was the first internationally binding treaty on data protection
and role model for a large number of data protection regulations. To the
In order to do justice to current developments, in 2018 the
convention states agreed on an amendment protocol that
protection convention 108, the so-called data protection convention
tion 108+.
 
With the General Data Protection Regulation applicable since May 25, 2018
the European Union has one throughout the European Economic Area
uniform regulation for handling personal data
fen. Both the Data Protection Convention 108 and the EU Data Protection
Basic Regulation contain regulations on the international data
far
 
 

page 3 of 3
 
Further information: www.bmi.bund.de/convention108 www.daten-
schutzkonferenz-online.de
 
Contact:
 
Independent Data Protection Center Saarland
Fritz-Dobisch-Strasse 12
66111 Saarbrucken
Email: medien@datenschutz.saarland.de
 
Saxon data protection officer
Andreas Schneider, spokesman
phone 0351 85471-120; Email: andreas.schneider@slt.sachsen.de

