1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00041/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: MUNICIPAL CONSUMER INSTITUTE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
MADRID (hereinafter, the claimant) on July 8, 2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against AH CHA GUA S.L. with NIF B80899016 (hereinafter,
the claimed).

The reasons on which the claim is based are non-compliance with the regulations of
data protection on the website www.fontaneros-ahchagua-madrid.com

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/07891/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimed party, on October 16, 2020, so that he could proceed to
its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data, stating the claimed on November 16, 2020 that said website
complies with regulations.

THIRD: On March 10, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, he stated that he had proceeded to correct his
privacy policy and that already complies with data protection regulations
personal.

FIFTH: On April 26, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/07891/2020, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: A claim is filed for non-compliance with the regulations of
data protection on the website www.fontaneros-ahchagua-madrid.com

SECOND: The defendant states that he has proceeded to correct the website
www.plumbers-ahchagua-madrid.com

THIRD: The web policy of the website www.fontaneros-ahchagua-madrid.com, in
this time is as follows:

"Privacy Policy of AH.CHA.GUA, S.L.

For the purposes of compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation
(RGPD), the following information is established:

RESPONSIBLE
TREATMENT

PURPOSE

AH CHA GUA, S.L., NIF/DNI: B80899016 Address: C/
Valderribas, 8 Retiro Pacífico 28007 Madrid, Registered in the
Mercantile Registry of Madrid Volume 8050, Book 0 Folio
114, Section 8, Sheet M-130056, Inscription 1, as well as
registered in the Integrated Industrial Registry of the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Tourism with the identification number
fication 13-B-D21-00101931 being authorized by the Di-
General Directorate of Industry, Energy and Mines of the Co-
community of Madrid as a company authorized to install
construction, maintenance and repair of installations
gas with the number of nº 976. Mail: ahchagua@ahcha-
gua.es
This is the information provided to us by individuals
resadas in order to manage the sending of information
requested, provide the interested party with offers of products
and services of your interest and improve your experience of
user, being able to elaborate, if necessary, a profile
based on the information provided. I don't know to-
They will make automated decisions based on said profile.
The personal data provided will be kept

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

LEGITIMATION

RECIPIENTS

RIGHTS

as long as the commercial relationship is maintained, and no
its deletion by the interested party.
The consent of the interested party is requested for the treatment
processing of your data and the prospective offer of products and
services.
Personal data will not be transferred to third parties, except in
where appropriate, other group companies for administrative purposes
you internal
Interested parties have the right to access their data
as well as to request the rectification of the data
inaccurate data or, where appropriate, request its deletion when
the data is no longer necessary for the purposes for which it was
collected. Those interested in certain circumstances
companies may also limit or oppose the treatment of
your data, as well as request the portability of the same
mos. You will also have the right to withdraw your consent
and to file a complaint with the Control Authority. For
To exercise your rights, you must contact the Responsible in
the address that appears in the first box, accompanied
copy of the identity document of the interested party.

FOURTH: The privacy policy of this website did not inform about the right to
the limitation of treatment or the right to portability, however the
claimed has proceeded to remedy such deficiencies.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), under the rubric
“Definitions”, provides that:
“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”
Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal through forms included in a web page constitutes a treatment
of data, with respect to which the data controller must comply with the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD.
In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, it has:
  “1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.
For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:
"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.
2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.
Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"
(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”
“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"
Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD establishes that:
 “The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”
In turn, article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
mild has:
  “They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:
a)
Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right
of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the articles
13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

In this case, it has been found that the website www.fontaneros-ahchagua-
madrid.com
  did not have an adequate Privacy Policy, but it has been
verified that it has recently proceeded to its update.
Despite this, it should be noted that the sanction of warning for the
personal data that was collected without adequately informing customers, which
which is constitutive of an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD. However, it will be a
sanction of warning without the need to adopt measures by the defendant,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

because it has already been proceeded by this to the generation of a privacy policy
adequate.

SAW

This infraction is sanctioned with a warning, in accordance with article 58.2.b)
of the RGPD, when collecting through said form basic data of the users and
consider that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the provisions of
Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, whose main activity is not directly linked to the treatment of
personal data, since there is no record of the commission of any previous infraction in
matter of data protection.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE AH CHA GUA S.L. with NIF B80899016, for an infringement
of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of
warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to AH CHA GUA S.L. with NIF
B80899016
In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

