We supplemented frequently asked questions about health care: instructions for review, rectification, erasure and disclosure of information


   


Publication date 
12.11.2024
 8.22
| Published in English on 2.12.2024 at 10.55


Type:Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 We have supplemented and updated the answers to frequently asked questions on health care compiled on our website. The answers provide information for both individuals and organisations. Among other things, we clarified the instructions for situations where a client or patient wishes to review or request the rectification or erasure of data concerning them. Updated instructions are also issued on the disclosure of information. The FAQs provide instructions on how and when patients can exercise their data protection rights in health care. The answers include information on whether an incorrect diagnosis can be rectified, and what to do if you suspect that your patient data has been viewed without justification. The new answer provides instructions for a situation where the patient wishes to prohibit contacting health care due to a scientific research finding. Health care actors and patients are also provided with information on, among other things, when patient data may be disclosed, and it is clarified what is meant by the disclosure of data. Disclosure of data must be based on law or consent given by the patient. In addition, instructions are given on the retention of the original patient document entries. The answers indicate that before the entries can be erased, it must be assessed whether they are necessary for the organisation, planning, implementation, monitoring or supervision of the patient’s treatment. Therefore, the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman considers that it is often necessary to also keep the original entries for supervisory purposes. In addition, the answers remind that, as a rule, patients may not be charged a fee when they request images of their imaging examinations, but have the right to access their patient data free of charge. Questions and answers on the website will be updated as necessary. Further information:  Familiarise yourself with frequently asked questions about health care 












health service


