

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Personal data security control (UOOU-02142/19)
Radio broadcasting operator


The inspection was carried out on the basis of the complainant's submission and, at the same time, the report of the situation in connection with the protection of personal data sent by the inspected person. Its subject was compliance with the obligations stipulated by the General Regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection with the processing of personal data, especially in connection with the security of personal data by a spin-off plant of a foreign legal entity. In February 2020, the Controlled Person sent a document to the Office to report the following situation, which states, among other things, that the employee reported during the notice period that his supervisor had access to his personal data by accessing his PC and using his identity. The case was investigated internally and no breach of personal data security was found. Nevertheless, the auditee has taken a set of preventive measures, e.g. the Code of Conduct for administrators and is also conducting a review of the internal policy in the field of digital security. The complainant, who contacted the Office in March 2020, stated that sometime before 20/12/2019, the security of the Office 365 software, used by the administrator for internal and external e-mail communication, file storage and some other things, was breached at the inspected person activities. He said the attacker apparently had access to the Office 365 software for several weeks and, according to his information, could not be identified. In this matter, before the end of 2019, the Office received a Notice of Personal Data Security Breach in accordance with the GDPR, in which it was announced that there had been a breach of data confidentiality by an external attack on 45 data subjects. In the said announcement, the audited person stated that he had taken a number of technical and organizational measures to prevent future attacks on user accounts on the Office 365 platform, and these measures were deemed sufficient by the Office. Among other things, the audit verified that the auditee has developed a system of internal guidelines and processes that establish technical rules for the security of internal systems; among other things, every employee is familiar with the internal policy of the controlled entity within its intranet. The inspection did not reveal a violation of the duties of the inspected person according to the provisions of the general regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Other > Inspection of personal data security (UOOU-02142/19)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



