List of processing operations subject to a protection impact assessment
personal data of the Slovak Republic1
List of processing operations subject to a protection impact assessment
personal data within the Slovak Republic (hereinafter referred to as the "list")
 serves to clarify Article 35 par. 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation2;
 it has a demonstrative character, therefore it is necessary to proceed from Article 35 par. 1
of the General Data Protection Regulation;
 is based on criteria issued by WP 29 in WP 2483 guidelines and opinion
EDPB no. 21/20184;
 its goal is to provide Slovak operators with a harmonized view of
processing of personal data that may have a cross-border dimension or impact
for the free movement of personal data of the persons concerned across the European Union;
 supplements and specifies the guidelines of WP 248;
 identifies 13 processing operations.
List of processing operations with personal data that are always subject to assessment
impact on data protection are the following:
1. Processing of biometric data of natural persons for the purposes of individual identification
of a natural person in conjunction with at least one criterion listed in the WP 248 guidelines.
2. Processing of genetic data of natural persons in connection with at least one criterion
mentioned in the WP 248 guidelines.
3. Processing of location data in connection with at least one criterion mentioned in
WP 248 guidelines.
If the processing according to Article 6 par. 1 letter c) or e) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the legal basis in Union law or in the law of the Member State to which the operator is subject, and this law
regulates a specific processing operation or a set of given operations, and an assessment of the impact on protection
data has already been carried out as part of a general impact assessment in connection with the adoption of this legal basis,
Art. 35 par. 1 to 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation do not apply, unless the Member States consider
it is necessary to carry out such an assessment before starting the processing activities.
2 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
in the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, which repeals Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation)
3 Guidelines WP 248 rev. 01 concerning the assessment of the impact on data protection and determining whether
for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 processing "likely to lead to a high risk" are available
at this link:
https://www.dataprotection.gov.sk/uoou/sites/default/files/usmernenia_tykajuce_sa_posudenia_vplyvu_
on_data_protection_and_determination_of_that_processing_probably_will_lead_to_high_risk.pdf
4 Opinion 21/2018 on the proposed list of the relevant supervisory authority of Slovakia concerning
processing operations that are subject to the requirement to assess the impact on personal data protection
(Article 35(4) of the General Data Protection Regulation) is available at this link:
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/opinion-board-art-64/opinion-212018-slovakiasas-dpia-list_en (currently only in English).
1

4. Processing operations carried out according to Art. 14 of the general regulation on protection
data.
If the information that should be provided to the person concerned is the subject of an exception according to Art.
14 par. 5 letters b), c) and d) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the impact assessment is
required only in conjunction with at least one criterion listed in the WP 248 guidelines.
5. Evaluation or awarding of points.
The purpose of the processing operation is to assess certain characteristics of the data subject, while
its result affects the quality of the service or the possibility of providing it to the person concerned.
6. Credibility assessment.
The purpose of the processing operation is to assess the trustworthiness of the person concerned
through a systematic assessment of personal data or personal assessment
data on a large scale.
7. Assessment of solvency.
The purpose of the processing operation is to assess the solvency of the person concerned
through a systematic assessment of personal data or personal assessment
data on a large scale.
8. Profiling.
The purpose of the processing operation is profiling through systematic evaluation
personal data, especially when it is based on the assessment of job performance characteristics,
financial status, health status, personal preferences or interests, reliability or
the behavior, residence or movement of the person concerned.
9. Monitoring of the employee's work on the basis of serious reasons resulting from special
nature of the employer's activity (hereinafter referred to as "processing of personal data of employees
monitoring").
Due to the special nature of the processing of personal data of employees through monitoring,
which meets the criterion of processing data on vulnerable data subjects and the criterion
systematic monitoring, as the two criteria listed in the WP 248 guideline, requires
carrying out an impact assessment on personal data protection.
10. Processing of personal data for the purposes of scientific or historical research
without the consent of the person concerned in connection with at least one of the mentioned criteria
in the WP 248 guidelines.
11. Processing operations using new or innovative technologies in connection
with at least one criterion listed in the WP 248 guidelines.
12. Systematic camera monitoring of public spaces (in individual cities,
municipalities and carriers of urban and suburban public transport).

13. Monitoring of persons by private detectives, or security services.
Criteria according to the WP 248 guidelines that may be helpful in identification
cases in which processing operations are subject to the requirement of an impact assessment on
data protection5:
 rating or awarding points, including profiling and forecasting,
 automated decision-making with legal or similar binding effect,
 systematic monitoring,
 sensitive data or data of a very personal nature,
 data processed on a large scale,
 linking or combining data sets,
 data relating to vulnerable data subjects,
 innovative use or application of new technological or organizational
solutions
 the processing itself prevents the persons concerned from exercising their right or making use of it
service or contract.

5

Guidelines WP 248, p. 10-12