1/22

 File No.: PS/00106/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 04/6/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against HOSPITAL POVISA, S.A. with NIF A36606788 (hereinafter, claimed). The
The reasons on which the claim is based are that he accessed his medical record in the
electronic management of the clinical record of the Galician Public Health Service (SERGAS),
named ***SYSTEM, and found that it contains test result data
that was done through the defendant, a private clinic, and under a private insurance scheme, which
considers "they should not appear in said HC", since they were made in order to "guarantee my
privacy using private insurance”.

He states that he exercised his right of access before the defendant on 10/20/2020 and was given
response on 11/18/2020, considering that various documentation that integrates that response
matched with that registered in the electronic medical record management system
***SYSTEM, which can be accessed by SERGAS healthcare professionals.
Provide a copy of the documentation provided in the access dated 11/18/2020,
made of:
a) Part in which you inform that as responsible for the processing of your data for your
health care, "your administrative data has been processed for the purpose of billing
compare the services provided to the payer indicated by you, your insurer”, he adds as
another category, those included in your medical history, including the number
medical history and those related to health status. It informs you that "the data related to
your private healthcare services provided by HOSPITAL POVISA have been communicated
to the payer indicated by you, the data relating to your public health benefits
public services provided by HOSPITAL POVISA have not been communicated to any third party
of the care professionals of HOSPITAL POVISA necessary for the provision
of quality health care”.
"Informed personal consent" of 06/1/2016, mentioning Law 41/2002, re-
b)
regulating the autonomy of the patient and the rights and obligations in terms of information
information (LAP), in the sense that he provides his data to said center to be attended to.
do, and that your data is incorporated into an automated data file for internal use of
said entity. It informs you of the exercise of your rights, and that "I have been informed of
that a clinical record will be opened in your name, where, in addition to said data, all
regarding your health, treatment and injuries.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/22

"I have also been informed that Hospital Povisa in case it is assisted with car-
If you go to an insurance company, you can provide a description of the ailments or injuries that
suffers from the patient, as well as a timely report on both his evolution and discharge and seque-
those in your case”.

 In the section "I expressly consent" it is indicated, "in compliance with the provisions
in the LOPD so that HOSPITAL POVISA can provide a description of the ailments and
injuries and other data on the patient's health to the responsible insurance company
payment for care provided at HOSPITAL POVISA", with the signature of the patient.

c) HP document "clinical history and evolution", of the claimant, "GENERALI client
SPAIN”, urology service, of 4/04/2017.

Accompany the claimant with a printed copy of the consultation screen *** SYSTEM consultation screen
HC 01-05, in which in the form of a tree they can be consulted in primary, specialized, dis-
different health centers, including HP, and within "other studies and reports", "other reports
and evidence”, you can see this one from 04/04/2017, which fully coincides, which fully coincides.

d) HP document: "Copy of the claimant's emergency medical report, "client
GENERALI ESPAÑA”, of 09/19/2017.

Accompany the claimant with a printed copy of the consultation screen *** SYSTEM consultation screen
HC 01-03, in which in the form of a tree they can be consulted in primary, specialized, dis-
different health centers, including HP, and within "other studies and reports", "laboratory",
"other reports and evidence", and you see this one from 09/19/2017, which fully coincides.

e) SMS of 10/17/2019, notification of medical examination, according to the claimant, of
Kutxabank Seguros with the person in charge of treatment SERMESA, "where they give me an appointment to
medical examination on 10/25/2019, on the occasion of the life insurance of a mortgage loan
tecario.”
Document from HOSPITAL POVISA (HP) of 10/25/2019, which contains test results
bas carried out, "laboratory service".

Provide a copy of screenshots of the electronic access to ***SYSTEM, (seen in the
top left that name) and you see a directory tree "Hospital POVISA" of the
that hang different folders. All analytics, as of 10/25/2019, are listed under the branch of
HP, other studies and reports, laboratory. Match those seen in ***SYSTEM with
those provided by the defendant.

SECOND: The claim is resolved on 04/21/2021 inadmissible for processing,
file E/04556/2021, against which the claimant files an appeal for reversal
which is estimated on 05/12/2021.
 
THIRD: On 12/13/2021, "In the framework of the actions carried out by the
General Sub-Directorate of Data Inspection in order to clarify certain facts of the
of which this Spanish Agency for Data Protection has been made aware, and in use of
the powers conferred by article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/22

European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016, regarding the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of
these data and which repeals Directive 95/46/CE (General Regulation of
data protection) (hereinafter GDPR), and art. 67 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD)”, is requested “from HOSPITAL POVISA, S.A.” the following information regarding
claimant, "as a consequence of the communication of their health data to the Service
Galician Health (SERGAS):

1. Evidence of having provided the claimant with information on the protection of
data in relation to the processing of your data and provide a copy of it.

2. Accreditation of the means used to provide the information in the section
former.

On 12/27/2021, he responded, and as it appears in the report of previous actions:
"1. HOSPITAL POVISA S.A. maintains an agreement with SERGAS by virtue of the
which provides health care to a population center in the province of Pontevedra.
That in compliance with said agreement, the medical record management system of PO-
VISA communicates with the SERGAS clinical record management system called-
c ***SYSTEM.
"The information related to the claimant's medical history is contained in the ***SIS-
SUBJECT from the moment the patient is cared for in the center, accessible by
part of SERGAS, taking into account the single electronic medical record system
planted in all health centers with SERGAS concert and that, by POVI-
SA, there have been no improper accesses to your medical history”.
2. “[…] The regulations require Health Centers to have a single medical record
per patient, regardless of who finances the health care. Of
In this way, POVISA professionals record all the activity carried out on users.
Rivers that come to the Hospital, both through SERGAS and through private insurance. The professionals
SERGAS doctors can thus consult through the ***SYSTEM platform, titled
larity of SERGAS, the clinical histories of the group protected by Social Security
(electronic medical record).[…]”
3. In relation to the information on data protection provided to the claimant manifest-
ta:
 "to. That in 2004, the claimant received healthcare for the first time through
from the emergency department of the hospital, which is why he is informed through the
Informational information on Data Protection placed on the counters.
b. That in 2016 the claimant went to the hospital again receiving health care.
general fee That at this moment POVISA provides you with an informative document
information on the processing of your personal data" Provide a copy of ANNEX 5 that
coincides with that provided by the claimant, done first, 1.b)
c. "The last health assistance to the claimant at the Hospital was in September 2017", "the
previously signed consent a year earlier, it was still valid” to cover the
obligation of the Hospital to inform you and obtain your consent for the treatment of your

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/22

data. They provide as a copy ANNEX 3, the response to the claimant's access exercise
from 11/18/2020.

4. Add that there is no record of access to the claimant's HC, through
of the aforementioned platform, no access by POVISA personnel, according to verification that
have performed since the last assistance provided in this center, beyond the
accesses that were necessary to meet the request for access to data presented by
the interested party in the year 2020. The rest of the accesses materialize through the
corresponding SERGAS users identified as "SERGAS external access
from ***SYSTEM'. In this regard, a copy of the registry is attached as Annex number 1
of accesses to the claimant's medical history, obtained from the ***SYSTEM platform,
CHECK PATIENT ACCESS", which covers the period from 12/23/2021 to
01/09/2012. The annex by dates, has the description field of "external access SERGAS
from ***SYSTEM”, in others, there are people with names and surnames, doctors,
emergencies, or workstation user, in "program", sometimes appears ***SYSTEM
PRO and other other identifiers.

5. The information document on the processing of personal data and consent
informed of the patient was adequate at the time, as a result of the RGPD and the LOPDGDD.
”At the admission desks of the Hospital there is an informative poster about the
treatment of personal data of the patients attended, updated at the time”,
The corporate website is also updated.

FOURTH: On 03/15/2022, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

"START SANCTION PROCEDURE against HOSPITAL POVISA, S.A., with NIF
A36606788, for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the GDPR, in accordance with the
article 83.5. b) of the GDPR, and for the purposes of prescription in article 72.1 h) of the
LOPDGDD.”

[…]”
"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, on Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, the sanction that could
correspond would be 30,000 euros, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.”

FIFTH; In view of the initiation agreement, dated 04/5/2022, the following are received
allegations:

1) -Considers the proof of the printed copies of screens provided by the claimant
on the electronic medical record of SERGAS, called ***SYSTEM, illicit, for
“to have been obtained presumably in violation of the legislation that regulates the
access and operation of ***SYSTEM, such as legislation that limits access to the
clinical history only for health professionals belonging to the health system
that competes depending on the case (in this case, in the Galician Health System)”.
It considers that information as the basis that supports the imputation and requests that by violating
the law should not be admitted, also calling for the proceedings to be suspended until
that “the origin of said evidence” be known.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/22

2) Reiterates that HP is required by law to have a single HC, regardless
than whoever is the financier of the health care received by the patients. HP shape
part of the Galician Health System, as it is a health center arranged with the
SERGAS, by virtue of the provisions of article 4 of Law 7/2003, of 9/12, of
Galician Health Regulation.

"The information of those patients who are only private patients of the HP will not
is accessible through ***SYSTEM. HP support information would only be
accessible when the patient requires healthcare at SERGAS and attends,
indistinctly to HP or SERGAS.”

For this reason, it should be SERGAS when accessing the healthcare information of the
patient in the HP, who would be obliged to inform the patient at that time,
as required by article 14 of the GDPR, which in turn, could exclude the
obligation to inform for HP in accordance with article 14.5 a), "for already having
said information”.

"HP as a concerted care center, which is part of the Galician Health System,
has a legal obligation to maintain interoperability with ***SYSTEM”. "The systems
of HP information in which the HC of the patients who are
treated at the HP, regardless of the funder of the service, interact with
***SYSTEM so that in those cases in which a patient goes to a center
health care of SERGAS to receive health care, if HC is available in HP, the same
can be viewed, with that sole care purpose, but it can never be
modified, it is not dumped, nor is it downloaded in ***SYSTEM. Decree 29/2009 of
5/02, of the Department of Health that regulates the use and access to the electronic HC, indicates
among other aspects, "that the concerted centers will incorporate into the Clinical History
Electronic all the information and documentation generated by clinical care
generated (art, 10).

“The Hospital does not communicate the data to ***SYSTEM, but the information is
accessible by legal imperative, but "in no case is an action carried out by the
HP in which the data is transferred to SERGAS”. “Patient information would not be
available, until the patient requested health care at SERGAS, which was not
known to or controllable by HP.”

"For this reason, HP did not consider SERGAS as the recipient of the information, because
the information is never transmitted to SERGAS, and it does not depend on HP or itself
SERGAS, that the information of the interested party is accessed, but is the fact that
go to a SERGAS health center to receive health care, at which time
is informed in said center”.

3) He considers that he is accused of an infraction classified as very serious, when the truth
is that it considers that this literal of "omission of the duty to inform" is not appropriate, since
there is evidence in the file that your data has been processed, and if it has been given
information, indicates pages 13 and 88 in informed consent and signed by the
claimant on 06/01/2016, this being the way to inform before the entry into force of the
GDPR, having adapted specific measures to inform patients after the
entry into force of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/22

4) HOSPITAL POVISA "has never uploaded any information to the information systems
SERGAS information, but only, for the benefit of their patients, with a
sole purpose of care and required by the applicable health regulations,
allowed the interconnection of their information systems, with the tool ***SYSTEM
and, , access to healthcare information only occurs when the patient
go to a SERGAS Public Health Center. “

5) As of 06/01/2018, a new informed consent was launched on the
treatment of personal data of patients, adapted to the GDPR, which is
“began delivering to new patients”, with the following information:

"The purpose of the information provided to patients is none other than to inform them that
your HC could be available to SERGAS physicians.”
Provide document one: "informed personal consent in compliance with the law
41/2002 regulating patient autonomy and rights and obligations in
of clinical information and the General Data Protection Regulation”.

It is also reported that "when strictly necessary, the data may be
communicated in accordance with the provisions of current legislation to the health authority
and other public bodies with competence in the matter, as well as companies
insurers or other paying entities when you tell us that the expenses
assistance must be satisfied by them, being able to facilitate the description of the
ailments or injuries that I suffer as well as a timely report of both its evolution and
discharge and sequelae in your case”

The legitimizing basis is: "the provision of health care and compliance with
legal obligations regardless of who turns out to be the payer of the same
keeping the personal data processed during the period of time required by the
applicable regulations proceeding subsequently to the deletion.

To guarantee the existence of a single clinical record per Center and comply with the
current legislation and since HOSPITAL POVISA is a concerted center, for the
provision of public health care, it is essential that the data of my
clinical records are accessible by the physicians of the GALLEGO HEALTH SERVICE,
guaranteeing greater security and avoiding duplication of tests, administration of
medications and errors derived from the lack of healthcare information.”

6) On 06/13/2018, it was agreed, "given the circumstances and the context
in which personal data is processed given the various ways of reporting,
reform the information available to patients, proceeding to "place in all the
patient care places, reception desks, waiting rooms and kiosks
(they are the machines in which patients download with their health card, the
information about your appointments), a first layer of basic information, facilitating the
second layer of information at all patient care desks and at the
Hospital website. Provide document two, a photograph of an information panel,
first layer, placed in the HP facilities, which reads: "basic information
on Data Protection", with the sections of responsible, the purpose, in
recipients, SERGAS is not mentioned, but: "Data will be communicated to entities
payers of health services and those legally obligatory", and "rights", with a
additional information that refers to counters and the web.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/22

The second layer is contained within document 2, entitled "Privacy Policy
patients" in which it begins indicating that the update is by the GDPR, on a legal basis:
"provision of health care, regardless of who turns out to be the payer of the
itself, within the framework of a contractual or non-contractual relationship (Art. 6.1 b GDPR), and the
protection of a vital interest of the patient or of a third party (art 6.1.d GDPR)”.

It also reports in similar terms contained in document 1 mentioned in this
ordinal: specifically, it states: "Finally, in order to guarantee the existence of the
unique clinical history per Center and comply with current legislation and whenever
HOSPITAL POVISA is a concerted center for the provision of health care
public, it is essential that the data of the clinical history be accessible by the
physicians of the GALICIAN HEALTH SERVICE, guaranteeing greater safety and
avoiding duplication of tests, medication administration and errors derived from the
lack of healthcare information.”

-The provisions of recital 62 are applicable, which "exempts the obligation to
provide information when the data subject already possesses the information, when the registration
or the communication of personal data are expressly established by law, or
when providing the information to the interested party is impossible or requires an effort
disproportionate”

-On the date on which the interested party received the services from HP, October 2019, "the
data protection information was already duly updated to the
requirements of the GDPR” ”In the previous moments (April and September 2017), it was
of application article 5 of the LOPD 15/1999 and not article 13 of the RGPD in which case
a possible violation of article 5 of the LOPD 15/1999 should be analyzed, since the
GDPR was not applicable to the processing of data concerning the interested party
made in the year 2017.”

7) In addition, it must be differentiated from the offense typified in article 72. 1 h) of the
LOPDGDD, of the light typified in article 74 of the LOPDGDD, which means "not facilitating
all the information required by articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR”. This aspect was analyzed
in resolution PS 465/2021 (an address is missing from the video surveillance information poster
where to exercise the legally regulated rights) PS 239/2020 similar to
above, and PS 237/2021 (the web page ***URL.1 of which the defendant is the owner, because
does not properly identify the person in charge or the rights that assist the
users or the routes to be used for their exercise). In the event that the AEPD
maintain the imputation, alleges the prescription of the infringement of article 13 of the GDPR,
referring to the moment in which the data is obtained from the interested party and, secondarily,
qualify as slight since there is no total omission. When processing the data, last date, 10/25/2019, the
infraction would be prescribed.

8) Dissatisfaction with the aggravating circumstances to apply the possible sanction.

The first, regarding the consideration of the infringement as permanent. When describing the
continued infringement and its elements, the "sentence no. 3602/2020 of the TS, room of the
Administrative litigation" fourth law basis to consider that there are no
in the defendant Unlike the continuous aggravating circumstance of the offence, that of
permanent nature is not explicitly included as an aggravating circumstance in the regulations of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/22

Data Protection. The character of "permanent infraction in which a single illegal
maintained for a prolonged period of time during which the lesion of the
legal good. However, they identify it in such a way for the sole purpose of calculating the
limitation period of the infringement which, in our opinion, should not also be transferred
for the purposes of applying the aggravating circumstance”. He cites a sentence of TS, third room, of what
contentious, of 03/16/2010, on the transfer of data to a third party, highlighting the
fragment as an example "... there is no plurality of actions, but simply the
disclosure to a third party of the personal data relating to the complainant. It
It happened at a certain point in time. It cannot even be said that that setting
in knowledge of the personal data was, in itself considered, a prolonged action
during a certain period. That this action could have harmful consequences for the
owner of the personal data at a later time does not convert it, contrary to what
affirmed by the impugned sentence, in a continuous/permanent infraction. Whether
accepted this thesis, many penal or administrative infractions would be
continuous/permanent, since the harmful effects of an action or omission can
make itself felt some time after the moment of the commission”. does not consider behavior
as permanent

The second aggravating circumstance of 83.2.a) of the GDPR, which considers that presumably the lack
of information has been extended to more people, without having deployed any kind of
probative activity that supports that affirmation and without it having been the specific object of
the claim.

9) Add absence of responsibility, for:

- Failure to comply with one of the principles of the sanctioning power, such as the existence of
fraud or fault in the imputed entity. There is no evidence of intentional action, for
since it has no interest in omitting that information regarding access to the data by the
SERGAS through the electronic platform, whenever it responds to an obligation
required by sectoral regulations.

-There is no record of benefits obtained in the commission of the alleged infringement.

-There is no recidivism.

SIXTH: On 09/8/2022, a test practice period begins, assuming that
reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the claimant and his
documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the appeal for replacement and its
resolution, as well as those generated in previous investigation actions.

Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the start-up agreement
of the referenced disciplinary procedure, presented by the defendant and the
documentation that accompanies them, as it is related to this claim.
In addition, it is decided to request the defendant:
A) In the access requested by the claimant, there was also some evidence that, as the
boratorio made HOSPITAL POVISA-HP- on 10/25/2019 to the claimant, who were listed in the
SERGAS consultation system-***SYSTEM. In this regard, you are instructed to report
on behalf of whoever was acting in those laboratory tests (proving it minimally,
if there is a contract and legal position for the purposes of data protection) where they were practiced
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/22

the analytics and for what purpose, and informative literal of data collection that is provided
not to the claimant.
On 09/23/2022, a letter was received from the defendant responding that "he acted in the
position of Responsible for Treatment, taking into account both the regulations applicable
cable on data protection, such as the health sector regulations, which are obligatory
compliance, being the entity SERMESA (PREVENTIVE MEDICINE SERVICES,
S.A.), a financier of the service. Analytical tests were performed at HOSPITAL
POVISA, in its own laboratory, in order to perform a medical review on the patient.
Therefore, there is no clinical analysis contract as it is an internal laboratory.”
Regarding the literal information provided to the patient, which the complainant has already referred
At a previous point, "at the time you go to receive said health care", it is
corresponds to the two layers according to the meeting of the Protection Committee of
Data from HOSPITAL POVISA, held on 06/13/2018. Thus, in the first one they appear
some information panels placed in waiting rooms, places of access and counters
care providers. In the second layer, information was provided on the web and at counters
patient care
From the contract signed with the entity by order of which the analyzes were carried out, no
nothing
B) Provide a copy of part of the agreement signed with SERGAS, and indicate from what date or
stages provides or has provided HP concert services for SERGAS in healthcare
related to the scope of clinical action that covers the claimant as a user
river of the public health care system. Part in which the “Legal position” refers to
ca in terms of data protection” that HP adopts in the health care concert
subscribed with SERGAS in terms of data processing and communication to the management system
electronic management of medical records ***SYSTEM.
It states that the concert was signed on 09/1/2014, currently in force, indicates that the
concert "was subject to review in the disciplinary procedure PS/00287/2018 and recur-
under administrative litigation 186/2019 in the National Court, assessing that it would be
a "treatment and an Agreement on which the principle of res judicata weighs, understanding
that there is no administrative review.”
It does not provide a copy of any document.

C) Regarding the examination or evaluation of the printed copies of screens provided by the
claimant with the healthcare information that says: "I have been able to access my medical history
of the application ***SYSTEM of the Galician Health Service (SERGAS).” and the request of
claimed in his allegations, the claimant provides printed copies of the screens
of said access with the reports.

In this regard, it should be noted that the Decree that regulates the electronic medical record in the
SERGAS 29/2009, of 02/05, establishes a chapter III called "access by
patient users" that begins with article 19 entitled "right of access to the
electronic medical record data" that can be exercised by the patient or user
by proving your identity. Article 20 configures it as a right, not
only to access but to obtain a copy of the reports or data that appear in the
itself and in article 21 as limits it is established that it cannot be exercised to the detriment of
of the rights of third parties. Article 22 establishes “direct access to the history
electronic clinic by electronic means Internet "and that the exercise of this access
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/22

must be carried out prior verification by the system ***SYSTEM of the identity of the
interested party, through their electronic signature or through another similar mechanism that
allows you to check with “full security”. Article 23 establishes it as a "form of
exercise of the right of access to the information contained in the clinical history”, of
in accordance with law 11/2007 of 06/22 on electronic access.
Therefore, being a very personal right and given that the defendant handles a hypothesis
without a real argument that is not given, and does not prove any indication of violation of the rule
in accessing said history, also appearing on the SERGAS website a section for
said access, as in many other Ministries that can access said stories,
The suspension of the procedure is not considered justified given that this cause is not
would enter into the reasons that can justify it, nor is the request to SERGAS for the
legitimacy of said consultations, or of the access record, for which reason the proof is denied.
I have proposed to investigate this aspect.
He states that he opposes non-admission, pointing out that the screenshots he provides in his
complaint do not correspond to the application that SERGAS makes available to
patients to access their clinical history, but it is information obtained directly
directly from the ***SYSTEM application, a tool accessible only to staff
SERGAS and subsidized health centers, which shows that either
the claimant is a healthcare worker, or has obtained the information fraudulently,
unfair or unlawful. Provides the application interface that allows patients access to
your medical record in SERGAS, with the section "my Sergas medical record" or "my
clinical history in the National Health System”, and then shows a second screen.
size in which the medical reports available for another patient appear, in the different
Centers in which the patient has received health care, whose order, provisions
tion and visibility are different from those provided by the claimant, although also in each
episode contains the sign to be able to be downloaded. It shows that this interface is from E-
SAUDE, owned by SERGAS, in no case ***SYSTEM, since this is limited
access to healthcare professionals.
He states that it could be an illegitimate access to the information available in ***SIS-
SUBJECT, and there may be access to information from third parties. Requests that the claimant be asked
source and manner in which he obtained said access, calling it "illegal obtaining of the
evidence".
On 09/27/2022, it was decided to extend the test and request:
1-A claimant:

  a) In your claim, you state that "I have been able to access my clinical history from the
application ***SERGAS SYSTEM”, and provides printed copies of screens. you are requested
the origin and form of access to ***SYSTEM, as accessing, access route and
form of identification to obtain what you contributed to your claim.

b) In your claim, you state that you received an SMS notifying the recognition
by KutxaBank Seguros with the treatment manager SERMESA
where they give me the appointment on 10/25/19 for said medical examination due to insurance
life of a mortgage loan. For this purpose, you are asked if you can contribute
documentation of said statement and a copy of the document proving the statement
and the quality of the participants that are mentioned.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/22

Receive the notification on 09/30/2022, without responding to the request

2-SERGAS was requested to report:

a) If patients can access the ***SYSTEM application electronically to
be able to see, download and obtain your medical record, and what would be the address and the way to
that patients would agree to be able to carry out these actions. Secondarily, if not
outside, report the website or platform through which patients can access the
medical history by media.

A response was received on 10/21/2022 stating that the ***SYSTEM application only
allows access to professionals from the Galician public health system as described in
included in decree 29/2009 which regulates the use and access to medical records
electronic as well as the subsequent decrees that modify it, on 164/2013, of 24/10, and
168/2014 of 12/18.

Access to health data by citizens by telematic means can be done by
through the E-SAUDE platform. Point out two web addresses where you can
find and its regulation by Order of 09/19/2016 that creates and regulates the personal folder
of health.
The information is the one that is allowed access as it is collected on the website itself, it would be:

My medical record access to your electronic medical record reports
My schedule check your appointments
My treatments information about your current and future past treatments
My healthcare management of your appointments and information about your professionals
My procedures historical information about your health and management of procedures with SERGAS
My personal portfolio management of one's own health and illness.

b) Indicate if the results and contents that are viewed from the access to the clinical history
of a patient in telematic format, which can be downloaded from ***SYSTEM and
from the platform that, if applicable, is through which private users can
do, are they the same or are there variations.

It states that from the ***SYSTEM platform, access by users is not allowed.
citizens so it is not feasible to download anything.

The type of report that can be consulted is described on the SERGAS corporate portal
through the E-SAUDE platform. It is indicated that most of the reports of your
SERGAS clinical history can be consulted from the moment the professional
has generated them with the exception of the cases indicated:

-Report of non-laboratory diagnostic tests, Nuclear Medicine report
-Of andrological state of urology
-Laboratory tests not clinical analysis

In these cases, in order to consult and download your report, 30 days must have elapsed.
days from its completion or who has had a consultation in primary care with
after the report creation date.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/22

Some reports from your digital medical record are not available through E -SAUDE.
If you need it, you should contact the patient care unit to
request your complete history.

Through the E SAUDE platform, access to medical reports is allowed and the rest
of information indicated above in terms of the different types of information. For
access to the different types of information there are different types of access depending on the
type of access to the platform will have more or less information.

As stated on the web there are two types of access: Without identification or with high security
that requires registering in the system in two ways, in person at organs or
administrative units of the Junta de Galicia or electronically through the
Electronic Headquarters. Regarding the accesses with high security, it is indicated that it is possible to
access all your health information and personalized content offered by the
platform such as reports of your medical history and treatments.

At the time of consultation of the E SAUDE platform, the information acquired is identical
to the one existing in ***SYSTEM, but it must be taken into account that the information in
***SYSTEM is dynamic, can be updated by healthcare professionals
responsible for its preparation.

3-A claimed, you are requested, that within ten days, provide:

 "Copy of the contract signed with SERMESA detailing the service to be performed and the

to)
object."

On 10/13/2022, he stated:

The defendant and SERVICIOS DE MEDICINA PREVENTIVA, S.A. (SERMESA), base their relationship
tion in an agreement for the operation in such a way that reconnaissance or
medical tests, according to different application criteria, under rates that
are renewed periodically. Therefore, the relationship between both parties is not arti-
culada in a service provision contract as such. The purpose of the agreement between the
parties is the performance, by HOSPITAL POVISA, of examinations or tests
medical, to those people who are referred to the center, by SERMESA. HOSPI-
TAL POVISA, once it receives the identification data of the people referred to the center, it
Responsible for processing the summons. In those cases where the derived user is not
previous patient of HOSPITAL POVISA, but who comes to the center for the first time, generates
a clinical history once the patient has been identified, in which they will be duly recorded
Once the tests are carried out, their results and the reports prepared
by the Hospital staff. As we have previously reported, in our study
Allegation letter dated 04/05/2022, patients are duly informed by
HOSPITAL POVISA, on the processing of your personal data, by various means, such as,
For example, through the information panels located at all check-in counters.
service to the public, to whom they necessarily attend before being served. After the
implementation of the actions required and previously agreed upon, the results of the assistance
care provided to the patient are sent to SERMESA, applying the appropriate security measures.
security, in order to prevent access to information by unauthorized personnel.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/22

SEVENTH: On 11/2/2022, a resolution proposal is issued with the following literal:
"That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection the
violation, attributed to HOSPITAL POVISA, S.A., with NIF A36606788, of article 13 of the
GDPR in accordance with article 83.5 b) of the GDPR, typified for prescription purposes
in article 72.1.h) of the GDPR.”

After the period granted, no allegations were received.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant states in his claim that: "I have been able to access my history
clinic of the application ***SYSTEM of the Galician Health Service (SERGAS)” -***SYSTEM
is the electronic management system for SERGAS clinical records - and has seen that
there are data on medical health care episodes provided in the private clinic
HOSPITAL POVISA (HP) in "private insurance regime". The claimant exercises
before HP his right of access that was answered in writing on 11/18/2020, coinciding with the
cited episodes with those contained in ***SYSTEM.

The claimant provides the printed copies of the screens of the attendances that are seen in the
screen ***SERGAS SYSTEM. In different tabs and in the form of a tree or directory of
folders, you can read: primary, specialized, different health centers, one of them
HOSPITAL POVISA, with the following care episodes:

1) Within "other reports and tests", one of 4/04/2017 is seen, "clinical history and
evolution “ “a 42-year-old patient who was referred due to his desire to know the blood group
for pregnant" appearing annotated the same. In client, figure GENERALI ESPAÑA.

2) Within "other reports and evidence", you can see one from 09/19/2017, "medical report of
emergencies” on the occasion of the consultation. In client, figure GENERALI ESPAÑA.

3) Within "other studies and reports", "laboratory", there are four folders, three
dated 10/25/2019 and the last one on 04/6/2017. In all three, from 10/25/2019, you can see data from
your analytics.

Along with this, the claimant provides a printed copy of a text message dated 10/17/2019, notification
cation of medical examination, according to the claimant, from KUTXABANK insurance, with Service
Medicina Preventiva SA, SERMESA, “where they give me an appointment for medical examination
co on 10/25/2019, on the occasion of the life insurance of a mortgage loan.”
Analytical tests are carried out by HP, at its facilities, its own laboratory, which
had signed an agreement with SERMESA, financier of the service.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/22

SECOND: HP, since 2014 has signed a concert with SERGAS, by virtue of the
which provides health care to a population center in the province of Pontevedra. In
compliance with said agreement, the HP medical record management system, communicated
unique with the SERGAS clinical record management system called ***SYSTEM.
The information related to the claimant's medical history is available on the ***SISTE-
MA from the moment the patient is cared for in the center, accessible by par-
SERGAS, according to the defendant, taking into account the electronic medical record system
The only one implemented in all health centers with a SERGAS agreement.

THIRD: In the right of access provided on 11/18/2020 to the claimant for the re-
cried out, he was informed:
 
-"the data related to your private healthcare services provided by HOSPITAL POVI-
SA have been communicated to the payer indicated by you, the data related to their benefits.
public health services provided by HOSPITAL POVISA have not been communicated to any
any third party other than the healthcare professionals of HOSPITAL POVISA necessary
for the provision of quality health care.

-Copy of a clause of "Informed personal consent" of 06/01/2016, mention-
do Law 41/2002, regulating the autonomy of the patient and the rights and obligations in
information matter (LAP), which provides your data to said center to be attended,
and that your data is incorporated into an automated data file for internal use of said
entity. It informs you of the exercise of your rights, and that "I have been informed that
will open a clinical history in your name, where, in addition to said data, everything related to
vo to his health, treatment and injuries.”

"Likewise, I have been informed that Hospital Povisa, in case it is assisted with charge
to an insurance company, you can provide a description of the ailments or injuries suffered by
the patient, as well as a timely report on both his evolution and discharge and sequelae in
Their case".

 In the section "I expressly consent" it is indicated, "in compliance with the provisions
in the LOPD so that HOSPITAL POVISA can provide a description of the ailments and
information and other data on the patient's health to the insurance company responsible for the
payment for care provided at HOSPITAL POVISA”, with the patient's signature.

FOURTH: In tests it was proven that in general, users and citizens cannot ac-
access your medical history through ***SYSTEM, which can only be accessed by professionals
health sionals. Those access through the E-SAUDE platform, being able to obtain
have access to reports of the clinical history of each patient, past treatments, current
and future, management of one's own health and illness. The claimant in evidence was requested
bas how he had accessed ***SYSTEM if it is not stated that he is a health professional, but
did not answer.

FIFTH: HP details in allegations, that since 06/01/2018, due to the entry into vi-
gor of the RGPD, the way of informing users changed, by "delivering" the information about
treatment of data to "new patients", providing a document 1 in which the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/22

form of the legitimizing base and of SERGAS as recipient of clinical history data.
ca and has a space for your signature.

Likewise, to comply with the obligation to inform the GDPR, since 06/13/2018, HP, "re-
formed” the information on data collection in two layers, through informative posters.
tives, as follows:

-A first layer containing basic information, with informative posters displayed-
reception rooms, waiting rooms and machines used for patients to unload
with your health card information about your appointments. It contains the literal: "basic information"
ca on data protection”, including: the person responsible for the treatment, the purpose, right
data, and as recipients: "Data will be communicated to paying entities of the services
sanitary and those legally obligatory”. It is also indicated that for more information
You can go to the website or to the reception desks. There is no reference to SER-
GAS in that first layer, although it does appear in recipients: "data will be communicated to entities
paying responsibilities for health services and those legally obligatory”

-The second layer would be informative posters placed at customer service counters.
patients, and on the website, under the document called "privacy policy
of patients”, warns of the change of the GDPR and an “update for its adaptation” is produced.
tion”. SERGAS is reported as recipient of clinical history data. It is informed
with the literal: "Finally, in order to guarantee the existence of the unique clinical history
each Center and comply with current legislation and since HOSPITAL POVISA is a center
concerted tro for the provision of public health care, it is essential that
the data of the clinical history are accessible by the doctors of the GALLEGO SERVICE
DE SALUD, guaranteeing greater security and avoiding duplication of tests, administering
administration of medicines and errors derived from the lack of healthcare information.” contributes
accreditation of what is stated in document two.

SIXTH: Regarding the information provided to the claimant in the collection of data,
derived from its submission to clinical analysis that is carried out on 10/25/2019 with the claim-
last support provided by HP listed in ***SYSTEM, HP stated, that ac-
acted as a clinical laboratory on behalf of SERMESA, which financed the service. Is considered
that as of that date, implemented since 06/13/2018 by the defendant, there were the mentions
given information updates in the treatment of patients in two layers, between
which included the specification of the recipient of SERGAS data, and the legitimizing basis.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each authority
of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of 5/12, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter, LOPDGDD), the Director is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure
of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of the
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/22

Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

HP is accused of a violation of article 13 of the GDPR, which establishes:

 "1, When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person responsible for the
treatment, at the time they are obtained, will provide you with all the information
indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the legal basis of the processing.
treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests
of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, if applicable;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third country or
international organization and the existence or absence of a decision adequacy of the
Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article
49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and the
means to obtain a copy of these or to the place where they have been made available.”

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained, the following
information necessary to guarantee fair and transparent data processing:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible,
the criteria used to determine this term;

b) the existence of the right to request access to the data from the data controller
personal information relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its
treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9,
paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any
moment, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on prior consent
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/22

upon his withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a control authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a requirement
necessary to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide the data
personal and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information
about applied logic, as well as the significance and intended consequences of that
treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person responsible for the treatment plans the subsequent processing of data
personal information for a purpose other than that for which it was collected, will provide the
data subject, prior to said further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
that the interested party already has the information.”

Article 4 of the GDPR, "definitions", indicates:
2) "processing": any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or
destruction;

9) "recipient" means the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body to which
that personal data be communicated, whether or not it is from a third party”

15) "health data" means personal data relating to the physical or mental health of a
natural person, including the provision of health care services, revealing
information about your state of health;”

The initiation agreement enters into the obligation of the duty to inform the interested party when
obtain personal data related to him, indicating the precept that he must provide "all" the
information "as they are obtained", which includes paragraphs a) to f) of the
article 13 of the RGPD, and in the second paragraph, adds for that same moment, that
will provide: "information necessary to guarantee fair data processing and
transparent”, as well as the exception in paragraph 4, that: “The provisions of the
Sections 1, 2 and 3 will not apply when and to the extent that the interested party already
have the information.", as in this case, which has part of the
information and data were already in the files of the person claimed for medical attention
previous.

These provisions exceed those that the previous LOPD contemplated as the right to
information in data collection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/22

Faced with the manifestation of the defendant that he does not dump his data in the
SERGAS information, but it is produced for assistance purposes and for the benefit of
patients the interconnection of data that the single clinical history implies, communication
of the HP direction ***SYSTEM of the SERGAS, and that only occurs when the patient comes
as such to be treated at a SERGAS public center, this would be enough to be
considered data processing by communication, with a specific recipient,
specific, known of which the patient should be informed when assisted by
HP, regardless of which. if applicable, the SERGAS should be provided.

The claimant became aware that the data of his assistances in HP appeared in the
electronic system for managing medical records of *** SISTEMA, managed by the
SERGAS, and it is a fact not denied by the defendant who acknowledges that it is so for the sake of
single medical history.
Regardless of whether the claimant has not justified how he was able to access
***SYSTEM, or the qualification that can be considered from said access, the patient has
right of access to the documentation of the clinical history, and to obtain a copy of the data
that appear in it (article 18 LAP). Thus, the health legislation establishes a right
broader in scope than that of access established in the data protection regulations,
that affects not only the data itself, but also the documentation in which they are
they contain. Therefore, if the right of access reaches the document in which the data is
collected, as part of the health documentation, such as data from histories
clinical histories that contain information such as diagnoses, test results, evaluations,
medical evaluations and any treatments or interventions carried out, the GDPR
it also reiterates that this would include the right to obtain a copy.

Taking for granted that the same information given in the right of access by the defendant
is the one that was obtained in the access by ***SYSTEM, and that is contemplated in the Law, it does not seem
deduce that the instrument provided consisting of access to ***SYSTEM can
affect the defense or defense guarantees of the defendant, when by the principle of
compliance, must accredit and guarantee the observance of the rights and principles in the
data processing of the claimant.

Furthermore, the claimant would have access to the same information and content in the
official platform that gives access to your clinical information E-SAUDE, as reported by the
SERGAS, which could access the episodes that are the subject of the claim, which appear in
the systems of the defendant, and that by applying the single clinical history that he defends,
transferred to ***SYSTEM, which has not denied the claimant either. It is estimated that the claim
of invalidity of said document provided as one of the means of contrast with the data
that the claimant disposed of the claimant as seen in the access is not a sufficient reason
to cancel said contribution, since in any case it is a fact not denied by the defendant
nor does it harm the explanation that you have to give about the communication information system
of data to recipients that must be given to patients, specifically to the claimant.
On the other hand, the principle of transparency is a general obligation under the GDPR,
which applies regardless of the legal basis for the processing, and throughout
throughout its life cycle, and applies to three fundamental aspects:

(1) the provision of information to data subjects related to fair treatment; before
of the data processing cycle or at the beginning of it, that is, when the data is collected
through the interested party or by other means.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/22

(2) how data controllers communicate with data subjects in relation to
your rights, according to the GDPR; and

(3) how controllers facilitate data subjects to exercise their rights
rights, which can be throughout the entire treatment period

This information, as part of the principle of transparency, empowers the interested parties to
hold controllers and processors accountable and to exercise control over
your personal data, for example, by providing or revoking informed consent
do and exercising their rights as affected.

A basic consideration of the principle of transparency is that the interested party must be able
to determine in advance the scope and consequences of the treatment and should not be
unexpectedly addressed at a later time about the ways in which they have been used
your personal information.

II

When a user goes to the doctor or health center, public or private, section 2.h)
of article 9 of the GDPR would enable the treatment and consent does not have to be requested
to the patient for the processing of their personal data, since they come to
provide health care, but it is mandatory that it be informed as prescribed by the
Article 13 GDPR
Recital 61 indicates: ”The interested parties must be provided with information about the treatment
of your personal data at the time it is obtained from them or, if it is obtained
from another source, within a reasonable time, depending on the circumstances of the case. Yeah
personal data can be legitimately communicated to another recipient, it must be included
form the data subject at the time they are communicated to the addressee for the first time”.

In this case, taking as the reference date the date of the last assistance with
HP health data content as of 10/25/2019, and taking into account the
previously: 2016 and 2017 episodes, not initially appreciated as having been
informed the claimant of the transmission of their data, to the information systems
assistance ***SERGAS SYSTEM through which access is possible.

This known addressee was not contained in the information given to the claimant in
none of those occasions.

Considering that it would have occurred on the occasion of the claimant's attendance at the
tests of 10/25/2019, however, it would be necessary to assess whether that information that was given
as offered on that date, met the complete requirements established in said article
13, and analyze the type of content implied by the omission of the information up to that date and
data communicated to the Galician Public Health Service when the patient attended
previously under a private insurance scheme or derived by an entity to carry out
analytical tests.

In the health care of the claimant in 2016 and 2017 in HP under insurance
private, data was collected from it, the claimant being informed of aspects of the
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/22

treatment as:

-Responsible for the file, purposes, exercise of rights and in relation to the entity
insurer information on transfer of data as a result of the payment of the
support provided by HP.

-There is no record that it was expressly reported that as a recipient your data will be
communicated to SERGAS as recipient of the information

-Subsequently, in 2018, the collection information system was modified. it seems
reasonable given the extension of transparency obligations that includes
the GDPR, linked to the principle of loyalty, transparency and proactive responsibility that
includes that data controllers should always be in a position to
demonstrate that personal data is processed in a transparent manner in relation to the
interested.

Recital 171 of the GDPR establishes that when the treatment has started before
of 05/25/2018, those responsible for the treatment must ensure that it is in accordance with
its transparency obligations.

This implies that, before the entry into force of the GDPR, those responsible for the treatment of
data should review all information provided to data subjects about the processing
of your personal data (for example, in privacy statements/notices, etc.) to
ensure that they meet the transparency requirements discussed. When they are introduced
changes or additions to such information, data controllers must leave
make it clear to stakeholders that these changes have been made to comply with the GDPR.

It is recommended that these changes or additions be actively brought to the attention of
data subjects, but, as a minimum, data controllers must put this
publicly available information (eg, on your website). In this case it is proven
that the defendant implemented mechanisms both to inform the collection of data to
new patients, as well as those who were already part of their files for having been
previously served, as the claimant. Among other extremes, the
SERGAS recipient clause at that time.

The claimant resorts to carrying out analytical tests entrusted to HP on
10/25/2019, and there is no new data collection, and there is information
offered since 06/13/2018 for users and patients who are not new to the Hospital,
figuring that the claimant already had a clinical history open in it from years before.
The result is that there was no data collection, but a modification of the
themselves and made known since 06/13/2018 adapted to the GDPR, among which are
included the aforementioned addressee reference SERGAS. As a result, you cannot
qualify neither data collection, nor omission in the duty of information in the collection of
data, being applicable the one indicated in article 13.4 of the RGPD that indicates that:

"The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
that the interested party already has the information.” Along with this, there is an update
of the information that is considered fulfilled since 06/13/2018, which also completes the
recipient section.

IV.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/22

Regarding the prescription of the infringement, considering the defendant that it is a
lack of information rather than a total absence of it, so it is estimated that it must be
classified as minor, it must be considered that the difference in the classification of the offense
could suppose that depending on whether it was considered very serious or mild, the time to
to be prosecuted for one or the other (prescription of the offence) varies, being three years after
that it was considered committed, being the case that was contemplated in the initiation agreement,
and one year in the case of accepting the defendant's thesis, being able to meet the prescription
depending on where the point of origin of the commission of the offense is taken.
In this regard, 10/25/2019 cannot be considered as the data collection date that
They had already occurred long before, 2016 or 2017.
In addition, it is necessary to understand accredited the effects of updating information from
06/13/2018.
Article 74 of the LOPDGDD states:

"The remaining infractions of a merely
of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13 and 14
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
The very serious one is included in article 72.1.h) which states: “1. Depending on what you set
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
three years, the infractions that suppose a substantial infringement of the articles mentioned
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following: h) The omission of the duty to inform the
concerned about the processing of your personal data in accordance with the provisions of the articles
Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”
As noted above, the claimant's treatment was already ongoing and the claimant
established a system to ensure compliance with the GDPR in terms of obligations
nes of transparency.
The claimant's medical history was previously collected in HP, related to
your personal data of the health care provided in 2016, 2017. Before 2019,
they had certainly been informed of the purpose of collecting their data, of the person in charge
of your data and the possibility of exercising your rights and some recipients of your data
cough. The update of the information available to the public suggests that it is taken for
understood the information, in this case, the update of the same, at the moment in which
its availability occurs, a fact that occurs on 06/13/2018 and that the claimant has
opportunity to verify when appearing the posters and the specified informative references,
At that time, the obligation to report the missing part was fulfilled. shouldn't be
postpone the date on which the obligation to update the information of the
treatment at the time the claimant goes to the consultation because it would mean considering
ensure that if he does not attend or while he does not attend, the defendant has not complied with the obligation
set, or if it came, a period of time is left in which some effects have occurred
that are accredited, being the truth that the defendant has implemented the means and the fi-
nes to update the information.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/22

Therefore, taking into account the aforementioned provision of the update of the information
tion of the treatment in June 2018, the infraction cannot be classified as very serious, for not
be an omission in the duty of information, and the obligation to inform is understood to have been fulfilled.
sea from the date of its implementation, 06/13/2018 through the double layer system in
the facilities and the website of the claimant.
Any of the two circumstances together would give rise to the file of the accused infraction
referred to in article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD that is attributed to the defendant.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed graduation criteria
of the sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ARCHIVE the infraction, charged to HOSPITAL POVISA, S.A., with NIF
A36606788, of article 13 of the GDPR in accordance with article 83.5 b) of the GDPR,
classified for the purposes of prescription in article 72.1.h) of the GDPR.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to HOSPITAL POVISA, S.A..

THIRD: Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for replacement before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to what
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
provisionally suspend the final resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
their intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact by writing to the Agency
Spanish Protection of Data, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1/10. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the
Sponsored links. If the Agency were not aware of the filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

