

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Business Company
UOOU-01976/20


The inspection was initiated on the basis of
75 complaints. Its subject was the assessment of compliance with obligations
resulting from Act No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain information services
company, when disseminating commercial messages by electronic means, e-mail. Subject commercial communications
it contained an offer of various consumer goods with links to websites
e-shops where these goods were offered. Sending e-mail addresses, or
the domain names from which they were formed did not function as separate webs
pages, also changed frequently. However, they were always formed by a certain phrase,
which evoked a bargain purchase. The operator of the e-shops that sent
commercial messages promoted, was for the most part a controlled person, from a smaller one
part, and for commercial messages sent later, it was another company,
which operated the given e-shop after the controlled person. However, it must be added
connection, namely in the person of the manager, who is identical for both companies. For factual
the sender was then marked with three other companies, because it was on them
registered outgoing domain names and were also included in some commercial communications
listed as senders. Controlled person and also others
the companies that sent the commercial messages in question were invited to
proof of legal title to these mailings. Considering the fact that the controlled
the company did not respond to the sent request even after the invitation, it was found guilty of violating ยง
10, paragraph 2 of the control order imposed a penalty of CZK 50,000. Other
the approached companies responded, however, it did not appear from their statements that
would have the legal titles to send commercial messages. The inspector stated so
violation of ยง 7 paragraph 2 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., i.e. sending business communications
without the prior consent of the addressees. Another violation related to ยง 7 paragraph 4 letter
b) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., as the commercial communication did not contain information about
the identity of the sender on whose behalf the communication takes place. Joint infringement proceedings then
was conducted with four companies. One of them that performed
in the position of the disseminator for whose benefit the commercial communications are disseminated,
a penalty of CZK 100,000 was imposed. To three other companies which
acted in the position of actual senders, sanctions in the amount were imposed
100,000 CZK, 25,000 CZK and 20,000 CZK. The decision has already entered into force
and after it also became enforceable, while the penalties were not paid, they were
imposed fines referred for enforcement to the relevant customs authority.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Unsolicited commercial communications - 1st half of the year > Commercial companyView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



