1/7

Procedure No.: PS/00237/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated July 17, 2018
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. (YOIGO) with NIF A82528548 (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are that from the
06/08/2018, receives SMS from Yoigo addressed to a third party and that when entering the Yoigo website
Yoigo your phone number and a password that was sent to you by SMS, you can access the
data of said third party.

The claimant has made the facts known to the entity in several

times, but the issue remains unresolved.

Along with this claim, a screenshot of SMS received, a screenshot of
of the conversation held by e-mail with the third party, as well as a screenshot of the
data of said third party to which he had access through the web.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On September 26, 2018, the claim with
reference E/5795/2018, submitted for analysis and communication to the complainant of the
decision made in this regard. Likewise, he was required so that within a month
send certain information to the Agency:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has sent the claimant to
purpose of transferring this claim, and proof that the claimant has received
communication of that decision.

- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.

- Report on the measures adopted to prevent similar incidents from occurring.

- Any other that you consider relevant.

On September 26, 2018, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the

claim and its transfer to the claimed entity.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

On November 29, 2018, the respondent entity requested an extension

deadline to respond to the transfer.

On February 13, 2019, without having received a response from the operator,

The claim is accepted for processing.

On February 25, 2019, a request for information was sent to

said entity on the facts denounced, stating its receipt that same day.

THIRD: On July 2, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Despite having been notified of the aforementioned initial agreement on 07/14/2019, the
Respondent has not submitted a pleadings brief.

FIFTH: On August 28, 2019, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/01816/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On September 3, 2019, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the defendant be punished for an infraction of article 32 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD, with a fine of €60,000.00
(SIXTY THOUSAND euros).

SEVENTH: On September 17, 2019, the respondent requests a copy of the
proceedings. This referral is processed by the AEPD, on October 3, 2019 by
certified mail, since the requested copy of the file has a size that
exceeds the maximum allowed in the Notific@ system, used by the organs of the
Administration for the electronic practice of your notifications.

PROVEN FACTS

On June 8, 2018, the claimant receives SMS from the respondent addressed to
a third party and that when you enter your telephone number and a password on the website of this entity
that was sent to you by SMS, you can access the data of said third party.

The claimant has made the facts known to the entity in several

times, but the issue remains unresolved.

A screenshot of the SMS received, a screenshot of the conversation is provided
maintained by e-mail with the third party, as well as a screenshot of the data of said third party
to which he had access through the web.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the

article 32 of the RGPD, which states that

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore availability and access to data

quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness

of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

III

In the present case, the claim focuses on the fact that the claimant receives SMS
of Yoigo addressed to a third party and that when entering your telephone number on the Yoigo website
and a key that was sent to you by SMS, you can access the data of said third party.

Thus, it is understood that we would be facing a presumed violation of the
article 32 of the RGPD indicated in the foundation II, since the person in charge and the
in charge of the treatment must apply technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which in its case
includes, but is not limited to, pseudonymization and encryption of personal data, the ability to
to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and permanent resilience
treatment systems and services, the ability to restore the availability and
access to personal data quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident,
a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

IV

In accordance with the evidence available in this
time, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, it is considered that the
Known facts could constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant,
for an alleged violation of article 32 of the RGPD indicated in foundation II.

v

The infringement is typified in article 83.4 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the
infraction of “the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge in accordance with the articles
8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43” is punishable, in accordance with section 4 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, “with administrative fines of EUR 10,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 2% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount

The regulation of infractions in the LOPDGDD is more precise in terms of
the situations giving rise to an infringement and their consideration, so that it is
much easier to know the limitation period of that infraction (that is, if it is
considered mild, serious or very serious) and in view of the administrative sanction to be imposed
for its non-compliance.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements

considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
d) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to effectively apply the principles of protection of
data from the design, as well as the non-integration of the necessary guarantees in the
treatment, in the terms required by article 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

e) Failure to adopt the appropriate technical and organizational measures
to ensure that, by default, only the personal data necessary to
each of the specific purposes of the treatment, as required by article
25.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.

g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance with
required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

SAW

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its art. 83.2, when deciding to impose
an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case shall be taken into account
aggravating and mitigating factors that are listed in the aforementioned article, as well as
any other that may be applicable to the circumstances of the case.

Consequently, the following have been taken into account as aggravating factors:





unintentional negligent action, but on significant data that allows the
identification of a person (article 83.2 b)

affect basic personal identifying data (name, a number of
identification, the line identifier), according to article 83.2 g)

7th

On the other hand, article 83.7 of the RGPD provides that, without prejudice to the
corrective powers of the control authorities under art. 58, paragraph 2,
each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent
impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established in
that Member State.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. (YOIGO), with NIF A82528548, by
an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD, a
fine of €60,000 (sixty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. (YOIGO).

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency

  Electronic Registration of

through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

