Legal Office  
N/REF: 0083/2020  
The aforementioned Draft Law is submitted for report.  
This draft law has been presented to this AEPD for report along with its regulatory impact analysis memorandum (MAIN). As indicated in said MAIN, as well as in the Explanatory Memorandum of the presented Draft Law (hereinafter, APL), its basic objective is to transpose the 5th Directive on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, namely, Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of May 30, 2018, which amends Directive (EU) 2015/849 (4th Directive), as well as to incorporate other novelties approved by Directive (EU) 2019/2177 of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 18, 2019; and finally, without being imposed by a Directive, to include other modifications and specific improvements resulting from international standards approved by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) or proposed by the Spanish national authority responsible for the enforcement of sectoral legislation in the area of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing to seek to improve the functioning of the legal model established in Spain.  

I  
The analysis regarding the protection of personal data in the regulations on the prevention of money laundering must start from the consideration made by Directive (EU) 2015/849 in its Article 43 (the wording of which has been modified by Directive (EU) 2018/843 to refer to the GDPR instead of Directive 95/46) that the processing of personal data under this Directive for the purposes of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, as contemplated in Article 1, shall be considered of public interest (…)  
The public interest as a legal basis for the lawfulness of the processing of personal data is contained in Article 6.1, letter e) of the GDPR. In turn, Article 6.3 GDPR establishes the obligation that this basis must be established either by Union law or by the law of the Member State applicable to the data controller. And the second paragraph of this last provision determines that this legal basis “may” contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the GDPR rules to the subject matter regulated by this legal basis, in this case, the subject matter of the prevention of money laundering.  

1  

Legal Office  
In application of these specificities, among other measures, Directive (EU) 2015/849, in its Article 39, establishes a “prohibition of disclosure” under which obligated entities and their directors and employees shall not disclose to the affected client or to third parties that information is being transmitted, will be transmitted, or has been transmitted in accordance with Articles 33 or 34 nor that an analysis on money laundering or terrorist financing is being conducted or may be conducted. As a consequence, Article 41.1 of Directive 2015/849 (not modified by Directive 2018/843, which did modify Article 43 - thus still referring to the now repealed data protection regulation) establishes that Directive 95/46/EC, transposed into national legislation, shall apply to the processing of personal data under this Directive, which must be understood as modified by the repeal of said Directive 95/46 by the GDPR effective from May 25, 2018, and any reference to the repealed directive shall be understood as made to the GDPR (see Article 94 GDPR). In any case, Recital (38) of Directive 2018/843 expressly recognizes that Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council applies to the processing of personal data in accordance with this Directive.  
Article 41.4 of Directive 2015/849 establishes that in application of the prohibition of communication of information set forth in Article 39, paragraph 1, Member States shall adopt legislative measures that restrict, in whole or in part, the right of access of the data subject to personal data concerning them to the extent that such partial or total restriction constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society, duly respecting the legitimate interests of the affected person, with a view to: a) enabling the proper performance of the functions of the obligated entity or the competent national authority for the purposes of this Directive, or b) preventing the obstruction of investigation, analysis, inquiries, or judicial proceedings for the purposes of this Directive, and ensuring that the prevention, investigation, and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing is not jeopardized.  
Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union -CFR- (consolidated version OJ EU 7/6/2016), as well as Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU -TFEU- (consolidated version OJ EU 7/6/2016) recognize the fundamental right to the protection of personal data of individuals. This Charter applies, inasmuch as, as established in its Article 51.1, the provisions of this Charter are addressed to the institutions, bodies, and agencies of the Union, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, as well as to the Member States only when they apply Union law. Consequently, they shall respect the rights, observe the principles, and promote their application, in accordance with their respective competences and within the limits of the competences that the Treaties attribute to the Union.  

2
Legal Office
In turn, Article 52.1 of the Charter establishes that any limitation on the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognized by this Charter must be established by law and respect the essential content of such rights and freedoms. Within the respect of the principle of proportionality, limitations may only be introduced when they are necessary and effectively respond to objectives of general interest recognized by the Union or to the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

Article 23 of the GDPR regulates the possibility of establishing limitations on the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, provided that they are established through "legislative measures," complying with a principle of proportionality, and for the safeguarding of certain rights or public interests deserving of such protection.

1. The Law of the Union or of the Member States applicable to the controller or the processor may limit, through legislative measures, the scope of the obligations and rights established in Articles 12 to 22 and Article 34, as well as in Article 5 to the extent that its provisions correspond to the rights and obligations contemplated in Articles 12 to 22, when such limitation essentially respects fundamental rights and freedoms and is a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard:
a) the security of the State;
b) defense;
c) public security;
d) the prevention, investigation, detection, or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, including protection against threats to public security and their prevention;
e) other important objectives of general public interest of the Union or of a Member State, in particular a significant economic or financial interest of the Union or of a Member State, including in the areas of taxation, budgetary and monetary policy, public health, and social security;
f) the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings;
g) the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of breaches of ethical standards in regulated professions;
h) a function of supervision, inspection, or regulation linked, even occasionally, to the exercise of public authority in the cases contemplated in letters a) to e) and g);
i) the protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others;
j) the enforcement of civil claims.

                                                           Legal Office
However, it establishes, in its paragraph 2, that any legislative measure indicated in paragraph 1 shall contain at least, where applicable, specific provisions relating to:
a) the purpose of the processing or categories of processing;
b) the categories of personal data concerned;
c) the scope of the established limitations;
d) the safeguards to prevent unlawful or abusive access or transfers;
e) the determination of the controller or categories of controllers;
f) the retention periods and applicable safeguards taking into account the nature, scope, and objectives of the processing or the categories of processing;
g) the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects; and
h) the right of the data subjects to be informed about the limitation, unless it may be detrimental to the purposes of this.

Having established these general principles, it should also be noted that this AEPD has had the opportunity to express itself on several occasions regarding the regulations for the prevention of money laundering, among which the reports of April 3 and November 16, 2009, in relation to Law 10/2010, as well as the report of February 18, 2014, referring to the then Draft Regulation for the development of Law 10/2010, approved by Royal Decree 304/2014, of May 5, as well as more recently Report 41/2018, relating to the transposition of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of May 20, 2015 (4th Directive, already cited), but which in turn had already taken into account the partial review process that was being carried out based on its proposal for modification for what would later be the 5th Directive, regarding which this report now informs.

It should also be mentioned that the transposition of Directive 2015/879 was finally carried out by Royal Decree-Law 11/2018, of August 31, on the transposition of directives concerning the protection of pension commitments with workers, the prevention of money laundering, and the entry and residence requirements for nationals of third countries, and which amends Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations. In this Royal Decree-Law, due to its extraordinary nature, the necessary measures for the transposition of the Directive, whose transposition deadline had been exceeded, were included, but
Legal Office
not those that did not derive from it, which are now included in this
draft law submitted for report.
II
A new section 5 is included in Article 4 and new Articles 4 bis and 4 ter, relating to the obligation to collect and retain information on the beneficial ownership of their clients by the obligated entities. This obligation to identify the beneficial owner arises from Article 13.1, letter b), of Directive 2015/849. Section 5 of Article 4 establishes that for the fulfillment of the obligations to identify the beneficial owner, the obligated entities shall collect from their clients or from the persons who have been assigned the representation of the legal entity, the information of the beneficial owners, without the need to inform the affected parties (that is, the beneficial owners identified by the clients of the obligated entities) about the inclusion of their data in the files of the obligated entity.
Given that the law specifies that the lack of necessity to inform the interested party arises when the data of the owner is included in the files of the obligated entity, when it concerns personal data of natural persons, it can be considered that this restriction is covered by the prohibition of disclosure in Article 39 of the Directive and Article 24 of the LPBC. However, this will only be the case because Articles 4 bis and 4 ter establish that clients (companies, entities, and trusts) must, for their part, request such information from the beneficial owners, and that these, in addition, have the obligation to provide such information to the entities of which they are beneficial owners. This is therefore a true data processing, in which the responsible parties are the entities that must receive such data, which must always keep it updated and against whom the interested parties who provide their data will have all the rights provided for in the GDPR (access, rectification, deletion, etc.).
Otherwise, given that Article 4.5 is within Chapter II, there would be a noticeable difference between the rights of that natural person—beneficial owner communicated by the clients of the obligated entity, and the rights of those interested parties as established in Article 32.2 in its new wording. While Article 32 does not establish any restriction on their fundamental right to the protection of personal data, regarding the natural persons identified by such clients to the obligated entities as beneficial owners under the provisions of Article 4.5, given that this provision establishes that they will not be informed of their inclusion in the files of the obligated entity, such natural persons would not be aware of the processing to which their personal data is subjected by the obligated entities. However, since they can exercise their rights against the entities of which they are beneficial owners, the limitation provided for in Article 4.5 is not considered disproportionate. Especially when the Third Additional Provision of the LPBC provides for a Register of Beneficial Ownership, accessible in principle in a general manner.
Legal Office
(Additional Provision Four LPBC and art. 30.5.c) Directive 2015/849) and which must be kept updated (art. 30.4 Directive 2015/849).
The new wording of art. 15.3 replaces the previous reference contained in the LPBC to Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data and its implementing regulations with a joint reference to the GDPR and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD) in a manner that is considered correct, since the latter is merely an application or specification of the former, but in no case does it replace it, as the GDPR has direct binding force.
Likewise, the reference contained in art. 15.4 that appropriate technical and organizational measures must be applied in any case to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk is considered correct, given that, as already stated by this AEPD in its Report 41/2018: “Ultimately, what is at stake is to replace the current reference to high-level security measures contemplated in Title VIII of the implementing regulation of Organic Law 15/1999, since the full application of the Regulation implies the tacit repeal of said Title, as it will be the controller who must adopt the necessary technical and organizational measures to preserve the rights of the affected parties. (…)”
Art. 24.1 contains a subtle modification regarding the exclusions of confidentiality imposed by the provision. In contrast to the initial wording of the provision, which established that the prohibition of disclosure would not include disclosure to competent authorities, including (…) disclosure for police reasons within the framework of a criminal investigation, the new wording specifies that this exclusion from disclosure will apply when it concerns judicial police officers within the framework of a criminal judicial investigation. This AEPD expresses its agreement with the precision, as this wording helps to strengthen the fundamental right to the protection of personal data of those individuals who have been communicated by the subjects obliged by the LPBC to the police authorities, as these police authorities must act as judicial police and under the direction of a judge.
III
While art. 32 of the LPBC regulated the matter of personal data protection regarding the treatments provided for by the LPBC in general, the draft bill divides this regulation, dedicating the new wording of art. 32 to the protection of data in compliance with due diligence obligations (Chapter II LPBC) and a new art. 32 ter to the protection of personal data in compliance with information obligations (Chapter III LPBC). It should be noted that, unlike art. 32 ter of the law, related to the particularities of personal data treatments resulting from Chapter III, the new wording of art. 32, related to
Legal Office
The treatments resulting from Chapter II do not restrict the rights of the data subjects regarding their personal data, so although the processing of such data does not require the consent of the data subjects, their rights are not restricted, and such treatments in Chapter II are therefore governed by the general rules of the GDPR with the specificities provided in the LPBC itself.

Directive 2018/849, in its Article 43, starts from the consideration - as already mentioned - that the processing of personal data under this Directive for the purposes of preventing money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as contemplated in Article 1, shall be considered of public interest under the GDPR. In turn, this AEPD already considered in Report 41/2018, citing the Report of July 24, 2017, that the obligations provided in Chapter II had as their legal basis Article 6.1.c) GDPR, that is, the compliance with legal obligations imposed on the obligated subjects as data controllers. Thus:

In this way, the legislation on the prevention of money laundering imposes on the obligated subjects, clearly, precisely, and unconditionally, a series of legal obligations to obtain information, either directly from clients or from third parties when so provided. This would imply that the processing of data, as well as the transfer of such data when referring to the obtaining of information from these sources, and even the obtaining of data from other entities belonging to the same Group, would be covered, as long as it is proportional to the compliance with the legal obligations imposed, by Article 6.1.c) of the General Data Protection Regulation, which enables the processing of the same when necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation imposed on the data controller.

In section 1 of Article 32, therefore, the mention of Article 8.1 of the LOPDGDD as the legal basis for processing is considered correct; however, it is not considered sufficient to only refer to this article, since the true legal basis is found in the GDPR, Article 6.1.c), as this regulation governs the development of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, especially in a matter governed by Union Law (remember that the law is a transposition of the Directive) - see Article 51 CDFUE - and furthermore, the LOPDGDD merely adapts the GDPR to the Spanish legal system and complements its provisions. Therefore, as established in the second section of Article 1.a) LOPDGDD, “The fundamental right of individuals to the protection of personal data, protected by Article 18.4 of the Constitution, shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.” Consequently, it is suggested to introduce a mention in Article 32.1 by reference to Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, complementary to the reference made to Article 7.
Legal Office
8.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection. 
On the other hand, the mention that treatments carried out on the basis of Chapter II “do not require the consent of the data subject,” while not harmful, is actually unnecessary since the legal basis for the treatment is letter c) of art. 6.1 GDPR (when the treatment is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the data controller), which in itself implies that such consent is not necessary, given that consent is merely one of the possible legal bases to consider the processing of personal data lawful, as article 6.1 GDPR considers it sufficient that at least one of these bases exists, with consent no longer being the predominant or most important legal basis, as it was in the system established in Organic Law 15/1999, LOPD. This was stated by the AEPD in the aforementioned Report 41/2018: 
This means that this Agency has already expressed its position regarding the consideration that both the processing of data necessary for compliance with due diligence obligations and access to information from third parties to achieve such compliance are covered by the existence of a legal obligation for processing provided for in the regulations governing the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, without the need to obtain the consent of the affected parties in either case. 
Next, section 2 of art. 32 establishes a limitation on the purpose so that the data collected by the obligated subjects for compliance with due diligence obligations may only be used for purposes related to the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism without the consent of the data subject, unless the processing of such data is necessary for the ordinary management of the business relationship. This section is considered correct and in accordance with article 6.3 GDPR, as well as with art. 41 of Directive 2015/849. 
Regarding the rights of data subjects in the treatments provided for in Chapter II of the LPBC, section 3 of article 32 requires the controller to provide data subjects with the information provided for in articles 13 and 14 GDPR (and 11 LOPDGDD). This information will additionally contain, in a particular manner, a general notice about the legal obligations of the obligated subjects. This regulation is not only considered correct but also appropriate for two reasons: the first because the right to information provided contains an additional circumstance that would allow the data subject to know that the LPBC contains specific provisions for the obligated subjects that may lead to the cases where the information of the data subject must be processed for the purposes of Chapter III of the law (see art. 32 ter and art. 41.2 of Directive 2015/843), their fundamental right to the protection of personal data may be limited or restricted. In this regard, it should be added that
Legal Office
this AEPD considers that Article 41.3 of the Directive contains a specific and particular obligation to inform or notify the data subjects about the legal obligations related to data protection regulations, without it being understood that compliance with this particular obligation could be achieved by considering that a privacy policy or data protection clause made a generic mention of compliance with legal obligations in general. Therefore, the current wording proposed in the draft is considered compliant with said Article 41.3 of the Directive and with the regulations on personal data protection.

And secondly, precisely because of what it does not say. By not establishing any limitation on the fundamental right to data protection of the data subjects regarding the processing activities provided for in Chapter II, this fundamental right is not restricted or limited; rather, the general rules established in the GDPR and the LOPDGDD apply in this regard.

It is also noted, on the other hand, in relation to Article 32 that it does not expressly include the need for the data controllers of the processing activities provided for in that provision (that is, the processing activities derived from Chapter II of the law, concerning due diligence measures) to carry out data protection impact assessments (hereinafter DPIAs), as is expressly required in the draft in Article 32 ter, for the processing activities of Chapter III - regarding the obligations to inform the authorities for the prevention of money laundering - or in Article 33 - regarding the processing activities derived from the exchange of information between obligated subjects and centralized fraud prevention files. In this regard, it should be noted that, in the opinion of this AEPD, when it comes to processing activities whose legal bases derive from letters c) or e) of Article 6.1 GDPR, that is, by reason of a legal obligation or a mission in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller, the GDPR does not prevent Union Law or the Law of the Member State applicable to the data controller from containing specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, among others those cited - without being exhaustive - in Article 6.3 GDPR, which includes the operations and procedures of processing, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, among which the obligation to carry out a DPIA may be found. Therefore, it is up to the legislator to determine, in a specific processing activity based on Article 6.1 c) or e), whether a DPIA should be carried out, without prejudice to the competence of the Data Protection Authority provided for in Article 35 GDPR. However, the fact that for certain processing activities the regulation does not include the express need for the data controller to carry out an impact assessment does not mean in any way that it should not be carried out; rather, it will be the cases provided for in the regulatory framework, which can be specified in the aforementioned Article 35 GDPR, that establishes an obligation for the controller to carry out such an impact assessment of the processing operations when it is likely that a type of processing, particularly if it uses new technologies...
Legal Office
technologies, by their nature, scope, context, or purposes, entail a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, to which it must be added that if the processing is of those whose content or characteristics fall under Article 35.3 of the GDPR, an impact assessment will also be necessary. Finally, pursuant to Article 35.4 of the GDPR, the supervisory authorities have published a list of the types of processing operations that require an impact assessment related to data protection in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 35 of the GDPR. Within the list established based on this provision by the AEPD, the following types of processing are included:

1. Processing that involves profiling or assessing individuals, including the collection of data from the individual in multiple areas of their life (work performance, personality, and behavior), covering various aspects of their personality or their habits.
2. Processing that involves automated decision-making or that significantly contributes to such decision-making, including any type of decision that prevents a data subject from exercising a right or accessing a good or service or being part of a contract.
4. Processing that involves the use of special categories of data referred to in Article 9.1 of the GDPR, data related to criminal convictions or offenses referred to in Article 10 of the GDPR, or data that allows determining the financial situation or solvency or inferring information about individuals related to special categories of data.
8. Processing that involves the association, combination, or linking of records from databases of two or more processing operations with different purposes or by different controllers.
10. Processing that involves the use of new technologies or an innovative use of established technologies, including the use of technologies on a new scale, for a new purpose, or combined with others, in such a way that it entails new forms of data collection and use with risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals.
11. Data processing that prevents data subjects from exercising their rights, using a service, or executing a contract, such as processing in which the data has been collected by a controller different from the one that will process it and applies any of the exceptions regarding the information that must be provided to data subjects according to Article 14.5 (b, c, d) of the GDPR.

It seems clear from the descriptions provided of these processing operations that the processing derived from Chapter II of the LPBC can be included in two or more of the previous examples, thus making the conduct of a data protection impact assessment necessary.
Legal Office
for the responsible party of such processing. Consequently, the fact that the regulation does not expressly state the necessity for the processing derived from Chapter II of the law to conduct an impact assessment does not mean, in this specific case, that the responsible parties should not carry it out in light of the list of data processing activities that require an impact assessment in accordance with Article 35.4 LPBC. However, in the interest of legal certainty, and given that Article 32 ter and Article 33 contain an express mention of the obligation to conduct an impact operation in the processing to which these provisions refer, it would indeed be necessary for the obligation to conduct such an impact assessment to be expressly included in the processing related to Chapter II LPBC.

IV
Article 32 bis establishes for obligated subjects belonging to the same category the possibility of creating common systems for information storage and access to the information and documentation collected in the exercise of their due diligence obligations established in Chapter II. The wording of this section follows literally—with a slight nuance—the wording suggested by this AEPD in its Report 41/2018, already cited (then referred to as Article 31 ter), after extensive argumentation in sections II and III of said Report, which can be considered reproduced since the draft now presented for report expressly follows the AEPD's suggestion regarding the wording of the provision.

The only nuance differing between the suggested wording and that submitted for report is the reference to Article 8.1 of the LOPDGDD as the legal basis for the processing. Thus, while Report 41/2018 of this AEPD mentioned Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR, the draft refers to the already mentioned Article 8.1 LOPDGDD. In this regard, we find it necessary to reiterate what has already been stated in section III of this Report:

In section 1 of Article 32, therefore, the mention of Article 8.1 of the LOPDGDD as the legal basis for the processing is considered correct; however, it is not deemed sufficient to only reference that article, as the true legal basis lies in the GDPR, Article 6.1.c), since it is this regulation that governs the development of the fundamental right to personal data protection, especially in a matter governed by Union Law (remember that the law is a transposition of the Directive) - see Article 51 CDFUE - and furthermore, the LOPDGDD merely adapts the GDPR to the Spanish legal system and complements its provisions. Therefore, and as established in the second section of Article 1.a) LOPDGDD, “The fundamental right of individuals to the protection of personal data, protected by Article 18.4 of the Constitution, shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.” Consequently, it is suggested.
Legal Office
to introduce a mention in Article 32.1 by reference to Article 6.1.c) of the Regulation (EU) 2016/679, complementary to that made to Article 8.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data. 
In relation to this Article 32 bis, it is suggested that its section 2, first paragraph, be worded as follows: 2. The communication of data to the systems as well as access to the data incorporated therein is covered by the provisions of Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Article 8.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5. 
It should be added that these common systems are not exempt from the other provisions of the GDPR, including the principles established in Article 5, particularly the principle of accuracy, so that the data contained in these systems must be accurate and up to date, and reasonable measures must be taken to ensure that inaccurate personal data is erased or rectified without delay concerning the purposes for which it is processed (Article 5.1.d) GDPR). As can be seen, the regulation of these common information systems closely follows the regulation provided in Article 20.1 of the LOPDGDD regarding common credit information systems. The final paragraph of section 2 states: It will be the creditor's responsibility to ensure that the requirements for inclusion in the debt system are met, being liable for its non-existence or inaccuracy. Just as regulated in Article 20.1, in the proposed Article 32 bis, the entities maintaining the system will have the status of joint controllers, and according to Article 26 GDPR, it is up to them to determine transparently and by mutual agreement their respective responsibilities in complying with the obligations imposed by this Regulation, particularly regarding the exercise of the rights of the data subject and their respective obligations to provide information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, unless, and to the extent that, their respective responsibilities are governed by Union or Member State law applicable to them. Likewise, in section 2 of Article 26 GDPR. Therefore, the law of the Member State applicable to the processing, when establishing the characteristics of the processing based on Article 6.1.c), may determine the responsibilities of the joint controllers. Based on the above, it is deemed appropriate for Article 32 bis to include, in its section 5, an initial paragraph stating that It will be the responsibility of the obligated party that has provided the data to the system to ensure its accuracy and updating, having to comply, where applicable, with the provisions of Articles 17.2 and 19 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. According to Article 26.3 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, data subjects may exercise the rights recognized by the aforementioned Regulation against, and in relation to, each of the controllers. The next two paragraphs of section 5 of Article 32 bis are maintained. 
V 
12
Legal Office
Article 32 ter regulates the protection of personal data in compliance with information obligations, that is, in the processing of personal data derived from the obligations established in Chapter III of the LPBC. 

Firstly, in its paragraph 1, first and second sentences, and as has been mentioned regarding articles 32 and 32 bis, it is deemed appropriate to make an express reference to article 6.1.c) of the GDPR alongside the mention of article 8.1 of the LOPDGDD. Likewise, as has also been referred to, and was mentioned in Report 41/2018 of this AEPD, since the basis for processing is article 6.1.c) GDPR, the consent of the data subjects is not required, nor is it even necessary to indicate it expressly. 

Next, it should be noted that the current full wording of this article 32 ter (except for the current paragraph 5) is a consequence of Report 41/2018 from this AEPD, whose wording was suggested by the modification of the then article 32 of the draft bill, which jointly regulated, as mentioned, the protection of data in both the processing derived from Chapter II and Chapter III. In that Report, this AEPD stated the following: 

Regarding the exclusion just referred to, it should be recalled that article 14.5 of the General Data Protection Regulation establishes that “The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 shall not apply when and to the extent that (…) c) the obtaining or communication is expressly provided for by Union or Member State law applicable to the data controller and which establishes adequate measures to protect the legitimate interests of the data subject, or d) when the personal data must continue to be confidential based on a professional secrecy obligation regulated by Union or Member State law, including a statutory obligation of secrecy.” 

As for the exercise of the remaining rights, it should be recalled that article 23.1 of the Regulation establishes the cases in which Union law or that of the Member States may provide for exceptions and limitations to the exercise of the rights contemplated in articles 15 to 22 when necessary for “the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including the protection against threats to public security and their prevention” (paragraph d) or for “other important objectives of general public interest of the Union or of a Member State, in particular an important economic or financial interest of the Union or of a Member State, including in the areas of taxation, budgeting and monetary policy, public health, and social security” (paragraph e), provided that certain specifications are established.
Legal Office
referred to in section 2 of article 23 of the General Data Protection Regulation, given that the Union's regulations on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as well as its transposition into Spanish law, both currently through Law 10/2010 and in what pertains to completing it with the Draft Bill submitted for report, establish those guarantees required by article 23.2 of the Regulation. 
However, it would be necessary for the controller, within the new approach derived from the establishment of the principle of active responsibility, regulated by Chapter IV of the Regulation, to adopt the necessary measures to guarantee the rights of the affected individuals to whom the data may refer in these cases, taking into account the limitation of that right represented by the non-application of the provisions regarding the rights of the affected individuals. 
In particular, it should be noted that article 35 of the General Data Protection Regulation imposes on controllers the obligation to carry out a data protection impact assessment “When it is likely that a type of processing, particularly if it uses new technologies, by its nature, scope, context, or purposes, entails a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” 
Article 35.10 of the Regulation, however, provides that “when the processing in accordance with article 6, section 1, letters c) or e), has its legal basis in Union Law or in the Law of the Member State applicable to the controller, such Law regulates the specific processing operation or set of operations in question, and a data protection impact assessment has already been carried out as part of a general impact assessment in the context of the adoption of such legal basis, sections 1 to 7 shall not apply unless the Member States consider it necessary to proceed with such assessment prior to the processing activities.” However, there is no record that the assessment was carried out upon the adoption of the IV Directive on the prevention of money laundering. 
Regarding the mention of the data protection impact assessment referred to in this article, it was already mentioned in section III of this Report that the Law of the Member State applicable to the controller may consider, in those processing operations whose legal basis is letter c) or e) of article 6.1, the possibility, in accordance with article 6.3, of establishing specific provisions to adapt the application of the GDPR rules, and among those particularities it may consider among the measures to be adopted that the controllers of such processing carry out.
Legal Office
the impact assessment regarding personal data. Therefore, there is no objection to the legally imposed duty on the responsible parties to carry out such DPIA in the treatments of Chapter III LPBC.
VI
Article 33 regulates the exchange of information between obligated subjects and centralized fraud prevention files. In this article, two scenarios can be distinguished.
Firstly, its paragraph 1 establishes the possibility that (i) when exceptional circumstances not provided for by law arise, but are deferred to their determination by regulatory means, the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering may agree to the exchange of information between obligated subjects (this would include the processing of personal data when it refers to natural persons) regarding (ii) operations that are not defined or delimited, or (iii) regarding clients subject to "certain circumstances" that are also not determined. Its paragraph 2 regulates the possibility for obligated subjects to exchange information in those cases provided for by law when, due to the characteristics of the operation in question, there is a possibility that once rejected, it may be attempted before other obligated subjects. Subsequently, paragraphs 3, 4, 5, and 6 jointly regulate aspects related and applicable to both the treatments of paragraph 1 and those of paragraph 2.
Specifically, paragraph 4 exempts the responsible parties of the treatments from providing the interested parties with the information provided for in Article 14 GDPR; and the second paragraph of said paragraph 4 limits the rights of the interested parties provided for in Articles 15 to 22 GDPR regarding both types of treatments. 
However, there is an essential difference between the treatments provided for in paragraph 1 and those in paragraph 2, which is that while the treatments of paragraph 2 are determined by law, those of paragraph 1 are not, but refer to a regulation to determine such "exceptional circumstances" that would allow the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering to carry out data processing in which the fundamental right to the protection of personal data of the interested parties is limited.
In turn, Article 61.1 of the Regulation of Law 10/2010, of April 28, on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism (RLPBC) approved by Royal Decree 304/2014, of May 5, establishes:
In accordance with the provisions of Article 33.1 of Law 10/2010, of April 28, when extraordinary risks identified through the analyses referred to in Article 65.1.e) occur, the Commission, with prior favorable opinion from the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, may authorize the exchange of information on certain categories of operations or clients. And Article 65.1 RLPBC refers to the Financial Intelligence Committee, which will be responsible for the national risk analysis regarding money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and in particular, paragraph e) of said Article 65.1 refers that this body will be responsible for coordinating the
Legal Office
Actions for risk analysis regarding money laundering and terrorism financing.
The MAIN does not contain an explanation in this regard, focusing on other aspects of Article 33 of the LPBC. However, we can consider that Article 33.1 of the LPBC is attempting to close the door and foresee behaviors contrary to the law through the exchange of information among obligated subjects regarding operations and/or clients that present characteristics different from those that the law, in principle, has foreseen as suspicious. This prevention, which is considered reasonable, from the perspective of personal data protection regulations, must comply with the requirements of this regulation, since it is not the law that regulates in this case the assumptions, requirements, and guarantees of data processing, but rather refers this determination to the regulation, with the addition that such processing also excludes the rights of the data subjects in terms of data protection (Article 33, paragraphs 3 and 4).
The Constitutional Court has had the opportunity to examine the requirements for laws that establish personal data processing, as restrictions on the fundamental right to personal data protection of the data subject, to be considered compliant with the Constitution. Thus, this constitutional doctrine can be summarized in the ruling of the Constitutional Court (STC) 76/2019, of May 22. This ruling contains the relevant doctrine regarding the fundamental right to personal data protection and addresses both the characteristics and the content that the regulations intending to establish an interference in that fundamental right must have.
(…) By express mandate of the Constitution, any state interference in the realm of fundamental rights and public freedoms, whether it directly affects their development (Article 81.1 CE) or limits or conditions their exercise (Article 53.1 CE), requires a legal authorization (see, among others, STC 49/1999, of April 5, FJ 4). (…) This dual function of the legal reserve translates into a dual requirement: on one hand, the necessary intervention of the law to authorize the interference; and, on the other hand, that legal norm "must meet all those indispensable characteristics as a guarantee of legal certainty," that is, "it must express each and every one of the assumptions and conditions of the intervention" (STC 49/1999, FJ 4). In other words, "it not only excludes delegations in favor of regulatory norms [...], but also implies other requirements regarding the content of the Law that establishes such limits" (STC 292/2000, FJ 15).
Consequently, and as required by the Constitutional Court, the law that establishes certain interferences in the fundamental right to personal data protection of the data subjects, such as, in the present case, the possibility of processing personal data of the data subjects of 16.
Legal Office
special categories, such as data related to health, requires that this
firstly, and for each processing of personal data of special categories that it contemplates:
a) 
specify the essential public interest that underlies the restriction of the fundamental right (FJ 7 of STC 76/2019).
b) 
secondly, the law must regulate in detail the interferences with the fundamental right by establishing clear rules regarding the scope and content of the data processing that it authorizes. That is to say, it must establish what the prerequisites and conditions for the processing of personal data related to special categories of personal data that will be subject to processing are, through clear and precise rules (STC 76/2019, FJ 7 b).
c) 
And finally, the law itself must contain adequate guarantees against the collection of personal data that it authorizes. The Constitutional Court has been clear that [t]he provision of adequate guarantees cannot be deferred to a moment after the legal regulation of the personal data processing in question. The adequate guarantees must be incorporated into the legal regulation of the processing itself, either directly or by express and perfectly delineated reference to external sources that possess the appropriate normative rank. Only that understanding is compatible with the dual requirement that stems from Article 53.1 CE (…). It is evident that if the norm included a reference for the integration of the law with the adequate guarantees established in norms of lower rank than the law, it would be considered a deregulation that sacrifices the legal reserve under Article 53.1 CE, and for this reason alone, it should be declared unconstitutional and null. (…). Ultimately, it is about “adequate guarantees of a technical, organizational, and procedural nature, which prevent risks of varying probability and severity and mitigate their effects, as only in this way can respect for the essential content of the fundamental right itself be sought.”
Moreover, this law must, in any case, respect the principle of proportionality, as recalled by the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 14/2003, of January 28:
“In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure of fundamental rights is determined by the strict observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that matter here, it is sufficient to recall that, to verify whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether the measure is capable of achieving the proposed objective (suitability test); whether, in addition, it is necessary, in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such a purpose with equal effectiveness (necessity test); and, finally, whether it is balanced or proportionate, in that it derives more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms to other conflicting goods or values (strict proportionality test; SSTC 66/1995, of May 8, F. 5; 55/1996, of March 28, FF. 7, 8, and 9; 270/1996, of December 16, F.4.e; 37/1998, of 17, F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10, F. 6).”
The same doctrine is upheld by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Thus, if Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union recognizes the right of every person to the protection of personal data concerning them, and Article 52.1 recognizes that this right is not unlimited and allows for the limitation of the exercise of those rights and freedoms recognized by the Charter, such limitation must be established by law and respect the essential content of the same.
Well, the CJEU Judgment of October 6, 2020, in the joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18, and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net and others (not yet available in Spanish as of this date), in its paragraph 175, recalls that:
With regard to the justification for such interference, the requirement, established in Article 52(1) of the Charter, that any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights must be provided for by law implies that the legal basis which permits that interference with those rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right concerned (see, to that effect, judgment of July 16, 2020, Facebook Ireland and Schrems, C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559, paragraph 175 and the case-law cited).
Likewise, paragraph 65 of the Judgment (CJEU) of the same date, October 6, 2020 (C-623/17), Privacy International against Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and others, citing, as before, the Schrems 2 judgment, states:
It should be added that the requirement that any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law implies that the legal basis that allows interference with those rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right in question (judgment of July 16, 2020, Facebook Ireland and Schrems, C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559, paragraph 175 and cited case-law).
In short, paragraph 175 of the CJEU of July 16, 2020, C-311/2020, Schrems 2, states: It should be added, on this last aspect, that the requirement that any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law implies that the legal basis that allows interference with those rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right in question [Opinion 1/15 (Agreement
Legal Cabinet
PNR EU-Canada), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraph 139 and
cited case law].
It is therefore the same law that establishes interference with the fundamental right that must determine the conditions and guarantees, that is, the scope and limitation, that must be observed in such treatments. 
And in the aforementioned CJEU ruling of July 16, 2020, Schrems 2, it is added (and reiterated later in the cited judgments of October 6, 2020):
176 Finally, to meet the proportionality requirement according to which exceptions to the protection of personal data and limitations of that protection must not exceed what is strictly necessary, the controversial regulation that entails interference must establish clear and precise rules that regulate the scope and application of the measure in question and impose minimum requirements, so that individuals whose data has been transferred have sufficient guarantees to effectively protect their personal data against the risks of abuse. In particular, such regulation must indicate under what circumstances and according to what requirements a measure that contemplates the processing of such data may be adopted, thus ensuring that the interference is limited to what is strictly necessary. The need for such guarantees is of particular importance when personal data is subject to automated processing [see, in this regard, Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraphs 140 and 141 and cited case law].
The CJEU ruling of October 6, 2020, in case C-623/17, adds the mention of special categories of data:
68 (…) These considerations are particularly applicable when the protection of that particular category of personal data, which is sensitive data, is at stake [see, in this regard, the judgments of April 8, 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others, C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraphs 54 and 55, and of December 21, 2016, Tele2, C-203/15 and C-698/15, EU:C:2016:970, paragraph 117; Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraph 141].
It follows from both the case law of the Constitutional Court and the EU Court that it is the law itself that establishes the processing of special category data (that is, the interference with the fundamental right) that must establish, itself, (i) the essential public interest purpose that justifies it, (ii) clear and precise rules regarding the scope and content of the data processing it authorizes, and (iii) minimum requirements so that individuals whose data has been transferred have sufficient guarantees to effectively protect their personal data against the risks of abuse.
In this specific case, this Agency considers it appropriate to expressly recall the words of the Constitutional Court in its ruling 292/2000, of November 30, which declared certain provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data unconstitutional.
Similarly, regarding the right to the protection of personal data, it can be estimated that the constitutional legitimacy of the restriction of this right cannot be based, by itself, on the activity of the Public Administration. Nor is it sufficient for the Law to empower it to specify in each case its limits, merely indicating that it must make such specification when a constitutionally protected right or good is present. It is the legislator who must determine when that good or right justifying the restriction of the right to the protection of personal data is present and under what circumstances it can be limited, and, furthermore, it is he who must do so through precise rules that make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences predictable for the interested party. Otherwise, the legislator would have transferred to the Administration the performance of a function that only he is responsible for in matters of fundamental rights by virtue of the legal reservation of art. 53.1 C.E., that is, to clearly establish the limit and its regulation.
17. In the present case, the use by the L.O.P.D. in its art. 24.1 of the expression "control and verification functions" opens up such a wide space of uncertainty that it causes a double and perverse consequence. On one hand, by empowering the Administration to restrict fundamental rights by invoking such an expression, the L.O.P.D. is renouncing to set the limits itself, empowering the Administration to do so. And in such a way that, as the Ombudsman points out, it allows redirecting practically all administrative activity, since any administrative activity that involves establishing a legal relationship with an administered party, which will practically be the case in all situations where the Administration requires personal data from someone, will generally entail the Administration's power to verify and control that the administered party has acted in accordance with the legal administrative regime of the legal relationship established with the Administration. This, in light of the reason for restricting the right to be informed under art. 5 L.O.P.D., leaves the citizen in absolute uncertainty about in which cases that circumstance will occur (if not in all) and renders any mechanism of judicial protection that must assess such a restriction of fundamental rights ineffective.
Legal Office
without any other complementary criterion that aids in the control of the administrative action in this matter.
Thus, in light of the cited jurisprudence, it is suggested that Article 33 of the draft bill (similar to the current Article 33) should not contain merely a reference to “exceptional circumstances” that will be determined “regulation-wise,” but rather that the law itself should integrate and contain those precisions that allow the citizen to have predictability regarding when their fundamental right to data protection may be subject to interference (a processing) or be limited. 
Thus, (1) the aforementioned “exceptional circumstances” cited in the law refer in the RPBC simply to some risk analyses mentioned in Article 65.1.e) RPBC, which in reality refers in turn to the Financial Intelligence Reports provided for in Article 46 LPBC. It would be advisable for this reference to be included in the law.
(2) Likewise, the law must make it clear that the purpose of the information exchange that the law provides for these exceptional circumstances will be exclusively related to the prevention of money laundering or terrorism financing activities. It should be noted that this limitation of purpose is already contained in section 6 of Article 33 of the draft bill.
(3) Regarding who may access or consult the data contained in the systems that are created for such data, the relationship in section 6 is also considered correct. And finally,
(4) regarding the necessary guarantees, section 5 contains the obligation for the obligated subjects to carry out a DPIA of the processing in order to adapt reinforced technical and organizational measures to ensure the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of personal data. These measures must, in any case, guarantee the traceability of accesses and communications of the data. Access to the data will be limited to the internal control bodies provided for in Article 26 ter. This Agency suggests that to complete these guarantees, the requirement provided only regulation-wise (Article 61.1 RLPBC) should be included in the law, according to which the authorization for information exchange (that is, the processing of personal data) by the Commission requires the favorable opinion of the AEPD. 
In this way, these processes move away from a merely regulatory determination to being regulated in the law itself, which establishes the processing of personal data, also establishing the requirements and characteristics of the processing, its purpose, the recipients, and finally the guarantees.
Consequently, section 33.1 of the draft bill could be drafted as follows:
1. Without prejudice to what is established in Article 24.2, when extraordinary risks identified through risk analyses regarding money laundering and terrorism financing carried out by the obligated subjects, or through the financial analysis and intelligence activities of the Executive Service of the Commission, or the national risk analysis regarding money laundering and terrorism financing, the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Monetary Offenses, with the prior favorable opinion of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, may agree to the exchange of information related to certain types of operations different from those provided for in Articles 18 and 19 or to clients subject to certain circumstances, provided that the exchange occurs between obligated subjects that fall within one or more of the categories provided for in Article 2.
The Agreement will determine in any case the type of operation or the category of client regarding which the exchange of information is authorized, as well as the categories of obligated subjects that may exchange the information.
Regarding the mention in section 3 of Article 8.2 of the LOPDGDD (that is, that the legal basis for such processing will be the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred to the controller), it is considered correct (see Article 43 of Directive 2015/849, amended by Directive 2018/843), but just as reference has been made regarding Articles 32, 32 bis, and 32 ter, it is deemed necessary to make an express reference, in this case, to Article 6.1.e) GDPR along with the mention of said Article 8.2 LOPDGDD in section 33.3 of the draft bill, without it being necessary, as has also been mentioned when commenting on the previously referred articles, to indicate the consent of the data subjects for the processing, without the need to expressly state it in the law.
VII
The draft bill modifies Article 43 LPBC, relating to the Financial Holdings File, which has existed in the law since its enactment. The modification responds to the introduction in Directive 2015/849 of Article 32 bis by Directive 2018/843, relating to the need for member states to have centralized automated mechanisms, such as registers or central electronic data consultation systems, that allow for the timely identification of any natural or legal person who holds or controls payment accounts and bank accounts and safety deposit boxes in a credit institution.
Therefore, payment and electronic money institutions are added to the credit institutions already contemplated in said Article 43. However, without prejudice to the above, this Article 43 must incorporate the modifications made in the personal data protection regulations, due to the entry into force of the
Legal Office
GDPR, which is subsequent to the initial drafting of the law. Additionally, other modifications not derived from Directive 2018/843 have been introduced. 

Thus, subsection 2 of Article 43 in the draft bill establishes that the entity responsible for the file known as the Financial Holdings File will be the Secretary of State for Economy and Business Support, and the Executive Service of the Commission will be in charge. The GDPR allows for the determination of the responsible party to be made through a contract or another legal act (Article 28.3 GDPR), but in both cases, such contract or other legal act - in this case, the law itself - must establish the determinations indicated in subsection 3 of Article 28 GDPR. The MAIN does not specify whether the law is the legal act that will govern the relationships between the responsible party and the processor or whether there will be a contract for that purpose. If it is the law, it must contain, as mentioned, everything related to that subsection 3 of Article 28. If it is a contract, without prejudice to the fact that this would need to expressly contain those circumstances, it would be advisable for the law to specify that the relationships between the processor and the responsible party will be governed by a contract that will contain all the circumstances provided for in Article 28.3 GDPR.

On the other hand, since reference is being made in that subsection 2 of Article 43 to data protection regulations, as has already been reiterated on previous occasions in this report, it is considered necessary, and more correct, that the reference to Organic Law 3/2018 made in that subsection is made either to data protection regulations in general or to the GDPR.

Subsection 3 of Article 43 of the draft bill incorporates a series of modifications that do not stem from the transposition of Directive 2018/843. This seems to be referred to in the second paragraph of heading I of the Explanatory Memorandum of the draft bill when it states that alongside the necessary modifications to transpose the European regulation, other modifications and specific improvements are proposed that respond to the same general objectives of improving the instruments and mechanisms of prevention, but which do not arise from the necessary transposition of European regulations, but are included in the international standards approved by the Financial Action Task Force (hereinafter, FATF) or are the result of the diagnosis made by the authorities responsible for the application of legislation on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism regarding the functioning of the legal model implemented in Spain and its possibilities for improvement.

Firstly, the legal text removes the requirement that the State Security Forces and Corps (and by extension, the Autonomous Police) must access this Financial Holdings File (hereinafter FTF) with prior judicial authorization or from the Public Prosecutor's Office. This Agency has already had the opportunity to report negatively on this modification in its Report 41/2018, as it implied the disappearance of prior guarantees that
Legal Office
justified the access of the Security Forces and Corps (FCSE) to such information, which is now expressly reiterated. Report 41/2018 stated the following in this regard:
On the other hand, a substantial modification of section 3 occurs, as the necessary judicial authorization or that of the Public Prosecutor's Office for access to the file by the Security Forces and Corps is eliminated, which in turn may affect the control functions that, independently of those corresponding to this Agency, are provided for in section 4 of article 43. (...)
All of this entails significant consequences regarding the protection of personal data, considering the nature of the information system being referenced, in which all data regarding ownership and safety deposit boxes of all credit institutions subject to Spanish law will be incorporated, which implies massive processing of data concerning practically the entire population of our country and any other person who was the holder of a passive product therein.
Furthermore, the proposed reforms do not relate to what is established in the Draft Article 32 bis of Directive 2015/849, but rather refer to issues that fall outside the regulation contained in that provision.
This raises significant problems from the perspective of the application of personal data protection regulations, taking into account the doctrine established by the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding the possible massive processing of data for its provision to the competent authorities for the prevention, investigation, inquiry, and prosecution of crimes.
Indeed, the Court has had the opportunity to rule on the compliance with Union Law, and particularly with Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, of a derived Union law norm, Directive 2006/24/EC, which allowed operators to retain traffic data generated by subscribers and users of electronic communications for communication to the competent authorities for the detection, prevention, investigation, and prosecution of serious crimes, considering that such a measure violates those provisions, thus declaring it invalid (judgment of April 8, 2014, Joined Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights Ireland and others).
Subsequently, in its judgment of December 21, 2016 (Joined Cases C-2013/15 and C-698/15, Tele2 Sverige AB and others), the Court analyzed whether the national transposition norms of the aforementioned Directive 2006/24/EC could be considered compliant with Union Law, finding that there was no such compliance in a norm that provided for the generalized and indiscriminate collection of data and did not subject access to it to prior administrative and judicial control.
(...), paragraph 94 of the judgment recalled that “according to Article 52, paragraph 1, of the Charter, any limitation on the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognized by it must be established by law and respect its essential content,” adding paragraph 96 that “the respect for the principle of proportionality is also derived from the repeated case law of the Court of Justice according to which the protection of the fundamental right to respect for private life at the Union level requires that exceptions to the protection of personal data and limitations of that protection do not exceed what is strictly necessary (judgments of December 16, 2008, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi and Satamedia, C-73/07, EU:C:2008:727, paragraph 56; of November 9, 2010, Volker und Markus Schecke and Eifert, C-92/09 and C-93/09, EU:C:2010:662, paragraph 77; Digital Rights, paragraph 52, and of October 6, 2015, Schrems, C-362/14, EU:C:2015:650, paragraph 92)”.
Having said that, according to paragraph 100, “the interference that a regulation of this type represents in the fundamental rights recognized in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter is of great magnitude and must be considered particularly serious.” And paragraph 103 adds that “while it is true that the effectiveness of the fight against serious crime, especially organized crime and terrorism, may largely depend on the use of modern investigative techniques, this objective of general interest, however fundamental it may be, cannot alone justify that a national regulation establishing the generalized and undifferentiated retention of all traffic and location data should be considered necessary for the purposes of that fight (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the judgment Digital Rights, paragraph 51)”.
It is thus concluded - the judgment continues - that “a national regulation such as that contested in the main proceedings exceeds, therefore, the limits of what is strictly necessary and cannot be considered justified in a democratic society, as required by Article 15, paragraph 1, of Directive 2002/58, in relation to Articles 7, 8, 11, and 52, paragraph 1, of the Charter (paragraph 107), while, however, in accordance with Union Law, “a regulation that allows, preventively, the selective retention of traffic and location data for the purposes of the fight against serious crime, provided that the retention of the data is limited to what is strictly necessary in relation to the...
Legal Office
categories of data that must be retained, the means of communication to which they refer, the affected individuals, and the established retention period” (paragraph 108), for which the national regulation “must first establish clear and precise rules that regulate the scope and application of such a data retention measure and that set minimum requirements so that individuals whose data has been retained have sufficient guarantees to effectively protect their personal data against the risks of abuse. It must indicate, in particular, under what circumstances and according to what requirements a data retention measure can be adopted preventively, ensuring that such a measure is limited to what is strictly necessary (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the Digital Rights judgment, paragraph 54 and cited case law)” (paragraph 109). Paragraph 11 states that the delimitation of the affected group “can be ensured through a geographical criterion when the competent national authorities consider, based on objective elements, that there is a high risk of preparation or commission of such crimes in one or several geographical areas.”
On the other hand, regarding the second of the issues raised; that is, the one related to independent prior judicial or administrative control, the Court states in paragraph 116 that “in relation to compliance with the principle of proportionality, national legislation that regulates the requirements under which electronic communications service providers must grant competent national authorities access to retained data must ensure, in accordance with what is expressed in paragraphs 95 and 96 of this judgment, that such access only occurs within the limits of what is strictly necessary.”
It will be up to the Court “the national law that must determine the requirements under which electronic communications service providers must grant such access. However, the national regulation in question cannot be limited to requiring that access responds to any of the objectives contemplated in Article 15, paragraph 1, of Directive 2002/58, not even that of combating serious crime. Indeed, such national regulation must also establish the material and procedural requirements that regulate the access of competent national authorities to the retained data (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the Digital Rights judgment, paragraph 61)” (paragraph 118).
Paragraph 120 concludes that “To practically ensure full compliance with these requirements, it is essential that access by competent national authorities to retained data is subject, in principle, except in cases of duly justified urgency, to prior control by a judicial body or an independent administrative entity, and that the decision of this judicial body or entity is made following a motivated request from those authorities, presented, in particular, within the framework of prevention, discovery, or criminal proceedings (see, by analogy, regarding Directive 2006/24, the Digital Rights judgment, paragraph 62; see also, by analogy, in relation to Article 8 of the ECHR, ECtHR, January 12, 2016, Szabó and Vissy v. Hungary, CE:ECHR:2016:0112JUD003713814, §§ 77 and 80).”
IX
The doctrine that has just been highlighted requires that the mass processing of data for the prosecution of crime be clearly delineated from a threefold perspective: on the one hand, the data subject to processing must be minimized; on the other hand, the circumstances under which access to the data may occur must be limited, specifying, for example, the nature of the crimes whose severity justifies that access; and finally, there must be control, which in the case of Spain should be judicial, prior to the effective access to the information.
The text now under analysis would indeed fulfill the first of the mentioned requirements, by minimizing, in correlation with the projected Article 32 bis of the Directive, the amount of data that will be incorporated into the financial ownership file.
At the same time, in its currently valid wording, the analyzed regulation, Article 43 of Law 10/2010, would also comply with the remaining requirements demanded by case law, as access is primarily limited to the prevention, investigation, and prosecution of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and judicial or Prosecutor's Office authorization is foreseen for the data to be accessible by the Security Forces and Corps.
However, the text now submitted for report alters the two guarantees that have just been mentioned.
Thus, first of all, (...)
In the same way, and even more evidently, all reference to prior judicial or prosecutorial control prior to access to the file disappears from paragraph 3 of the text, and it is not even indicated that the Security Forces and Corps accessing the data will do so in their capacity as judicial police.
Legal Office
This leads to two necessary consequences to ensure the compliance of the provision with the jurisprudence that has been analyzed previously: on the one hand, (…) and, on the other hand, judicial or fiscal control prior to access must be added to section 3, in the terms currently set forth in Law 10/2010. 

There are, furthermore, other modifications regarding the text of Article 43 of the LPBC. Thus, while in the text of the LPBC Article 43 referred to the possibility of access to the FTF for investigating crimes related to money laundering or the financing of terrorism by investigating judges, the new text simply refers to "the judicial bodies." However, it should be considered that this modification is lawful since not only "investigating judges" could theoretically carry out the investigation of these crimes (consider, for example, the central investigating courts or in those cases where the investigation is conducted by a member of a higher court due to a person being privileged, etc.). But this must be interpreted in such a way that it refers only to judges whose competencies include "investigation of crimes," and not any other judicial body.

Likewise, the new text includes new cases of access to the data of the Financial Ownership File, regarding which this AEPD has already expressed its opinion in the reiterated Report 41/2018. 

Along with the issues that have just been added, it has already been initiated that the text submitted for report also includes new cases of access to the data contained in the financial ownership file, and it is necessary to assess whether all of them can be considered appropriate for the purpose of said file and whether they find legal coverage.

Regarding access by the Asset Management and Recovery Office, Article 1 of Royal Decree 948/2015, of October 23, clarifies that the Asset Recovery and Management Office "is configured as an organ of the General Administration of the State and an auxiliary of the Administration of Justice, to which the competencies of locating, recovering, conserving, administering, and realizing the effects, goods, instruments, and profits derived from criminal activities committed within the framework of a criminal organization and any others attributed to it, in the terms provided for in criminal and procedural legislation" and adds that it "will act when entrusted by the competent judge or court, ex officio or at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Office itself."

The Asset Recovery and Management Office is regulated by the sixth additional provision of the Criminal Procedure Law, introduced by section eighteen of the sole article of Law 41/2015, of October 5, amending the Criminal Procedure Law for the acceleration of criminal justice and the strengthening of procedural guarantees. Section 1 of the aforementioned provision states in its first paragraph that "the Asset Recovery and Management Office is the administrative body responsible for the functions of locating, recovering, conserving, administering, and realizing effects derived from criminal activities in the terms provided for in criminal and procedural legislation." The second paragraph of that section 1 adds that "when necessary for the performance of its functions and the achievement of its purposes, the Asset Recovery and Management Office may request the collaboration of any public and private entities, which will be obliged to provide it in accordance with their specific regulations."

Thus, the actions of the Office will always be carried out by virtue of a judicial mandate or as a consequence of it, so access to the data for the investigation of the financial products that a certain subject may hold would be covered by the functions attributed to it by the Criminal Procedure Law.

In the same way, access by the National Intelligence Center can be considered in accordance with the doctrine derived from the jurisprudence that has been analyzed, under the terms already indicated previously and subject to prior judicial control.

Regarding access by the Intelligence Center against Terrorism and Organized Crime, the text submitted for report links it with the functions attributed to it by Law 12/2003, of May 21. In this sense, Article 3 of Royal Decree 413/2015, of May 29, which approves the Regulation of the Commission for the Monitoring of Activities Financing Terrorism, created by Article 9 of the aforementioned Law, states that "The Secretariat of the Commission, provided for in Article 9 of Law 12/2003, of May 21, will be exercised by the Intelligence Center against Terrorism and Organized Crime (CITCO), dependent on the Secretary of State for Security," to which it corresponds, according to its section 2:

"a) To instruct the sanctioning procedures that may arise from violations of Law 12/2003, of May 21, including the formulation of a resolution proposal for the Commission.
b) To receive from Public Administrations and obligated persons the information related to the blocking of financing for activities of terrorism referred to in Article 4 of Law 12/2003, of May 21."
Legal Office
c) To receive and process, in accordance with the rules of this Regulation, the requests for authorization for the release or availability of funds or economic resources blocked in execution of a Commission agreement.
d) To receive and process requests for the removal of individuals and entities from the lists of terrorists drawn up by the European Union and the United Nations.
e) To prepare reports that allow the Commission to decide on the identity verification requests referred to in Article 12.
f) Any other tasks assigned to it by the Commission.”
Therefore, this access, based on the status of the Secretariat of the Commission for the Prevention and Blocking of Terrorism Financing, will be covered by the powers attributed to the Commission by Article 9 and those granted to the Secretariat by Article 3 of the Operating Regulation of said Commission.
Regarding access by the Tax Administration, it is already included in Law 10/2010. However, in the opinion of this Agency, the reference to the General Tax Law should be maintained as the norm that supports access, especially for the purposes provided in Articles 93 and 94.
(…)
Finally, it should be noted that the current section 4 of Article 43 LPBC - which has not been modified - is integrated into the draft bill as the last paragraph of section 3, which seems more like a typographical error, as there does not appear to be any special reason for it. It is considered more appropriate for it to remain as section 4 of Article 43. Notwithstanding this, it should be added that this section would not meet the requirements established in the jurisprudence of the CJEU, which requires prior judicial or prosecutorial control as a guarantee for access to the data of the Financial Holdings File, as has been stated.
VIII
Article 47, section 4, of the draft bill has the following wording:
4. The obligated subjects, their employees, executives, and agents, shall provide maximum cooperation to the personnel of the Executive Service of the Commission and, within the scope of their competencies, to the personnel of the Bank of Spain, the National Securities Market Commission, and the General Directorate of Insurance and Pension Funds, providing without any restriction all information or documentation requested, including books, accounting entries, records, software programs, magnetic media files, internal communications, minutes, official declarations, and any others related to the subjects under inspection.
For the purposes of this law, financial entities shall notify their prudential supervisors in advance of their intention to contract with service providers for the storage or computing of information related to obligations in the area of anti-money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In any case, compliance with their obligations regarding the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism must be guaranteed, as well as access by the authorities to all information stored on these servers without delay. The storage and data processing services shall be provided within the European Economic Area or, where applicable, from a third country that, according to the European Commission, offers the necessary guarantees to ensure an adequate level of protection equivalent to that provided in the European Union, and provided that the provisions regarding the transfer of personal data to third countries or international organizations established by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and by Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, are complied with.
We are therefore faced with a new wording of this section compared to that established in the LPBC, which reinforces the obligation that already existed in the original wording of the provision to provide without any restriction all information regarding records, software programs, magnetic media files, etc., related to the supervised matter.
It now adds, first, an obligation for financial entities, as obligated subjects, to notify their prudential supervisors in advance of their intention to contract with service providers for the storage or computing of information related to obligations in the area of anti-money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and then an obligation to guarantee compliance with their obligations regarding the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and access by the authorities to all information stored on these servers without delay.
From the perspective of personal data protection regulations, no objections are raised to these obligations, nor is such an obligation imposed by said regulations.
Legal Office
The following obliges financial entities to (1) provide data storage and processing services (sic) (2) within the European Economic Area or, where applicable, (3) from a third country that, according to the European Commission, offers the necessary guarantees to ensure an adequate level of protection equivalent to that provided in the European Union, (4) and (sic) provided that the provisions regarding the transfer of personal data to third countries or international organizations established by the GDPR and the LOPDGDD are complied with.
The GDPR defines (art. 4.2) "processing" as any operation or set of operations performed on personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated means or not, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, communication by transmission, dissemination, or any other form of access, comparison, or interconnection, limitation, erasure, or destruction. We are therefore faced with a broad definition of processing, and not exhaustive.
The text of the draft bill refers to the "services" of "storage" and "processing." The expression is not very fortunate, as the "processing services" are not clearly defined. Firstly, when referring to "storage services," it seems to want to reflect that agreement by which the financial entity entrusts another company with its data so that they reside, or are hosted, in physical spaces within a computer (server) belonging to that other company. Nowadays, this is commonly known as "hosting." As such, this conservation service is in itself a data processing operation, according to the concept used by the GDPR. On the other hand, the draft bill also mentions what it calls "data processing services," which, by its very nature, given the definition of data processing in the GDPR (art. 4.1), refers to all types of processing.
In reality, what this provision seems to want to prevent is that the financial entity, as an obligated subject, does not transfer the necessary data for the control of matters related to money laundering and terrorist financing (and note that here there may be both personal and non-personal data) to countries or places that are not considered by personal data protection regulations as equivalent in protection to the level existing in the EU (extendable to EEA countries).
The transfer of data to third countries or international organizations (outside the EU and the EEA) is regulated in Chapter V of the GDPR. The general principle is found in its art. 44, according to which transfers of personal data (the only ones referred to by the GDPR) may only be carried out if the controller and the processor comply with the conditions established in that chapter. However, the GDPR does not impose in any way a positive obligation on the data controllers that their processing must be carried out within the EEA. This is unrelated to the
Legal Office
data protection regulations; these rules simply establish the requirements for data processing to have the same guarantees for the data subjects whether they are carried out within the EEA or outside of it. It can be understood that the GDPR does not allow a transfer of data to third countries if the requirements set forth by the GDPR are not met (that there is an Adequacy Decision from the Commission -art. 45 GDPR-; that there are adequate safeguards in accordance with art. 46 GDPR; or there are binding corporate rules in accordance with art. 47; or specific circumstances as per art. 49 GDPR). However, when such circumstances exist, it neither imposes nor prohibits it. 

That said, the fact that the draft law imposes that certain processing activities (at least, storage (or “hosting”) -and perhaps also the other possible personal data processing activities referred to by the expression “data processing services” in art. 43 of the draft law-) must be provided within the EEA is not considered contrary to personal data protection regulations. Its examination in accordance with other sectors of the legal framework -commercial agreements with third countries, for example- is outside the scope of our report. Therefore, and by extension, when the draft law regulates that such storage services (and other processing) can only be provided in EEA countries or in a third country that, according to the European Commission, offers the necessary guarantees to ensure an adequate level of protection equivalent to that provided in the European Union, it would not be contrary to personal data protection regulations, since according to art. 6.3 GDPR, when the legal basis for processing is established in art. 6.1.c) or 6.1.e), such legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; (…) as well as the operations and procedures of processing (…).

It should also be noted that it would be redundant, once it has been established by the draft law that storage (and other processing) outside the EEA will only be possible in those countries for which the Commission has issued an Adequacy Decision, to state that “and provided that the provisions regarding the transfer of personal data to third countries or international organizations established by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and by Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights, are complied with,” since the existence of an Adequacy Decision from the Commission already determines that data transfers to the data storage locations meet those standards. Unless the drafter of the draft law intends to differentiate between “data storage,” whether personal or not, which must always be stored in countries for which there is an Adequacy Decision, and “personal data processing” which consists of the transfer of data to those countries, which must in any case comply with the regulatory framework for protection.
Legal Cabinet
personal data. In any case, that provision is not entirely clear for this AEPD, and the MAIN does not provide any explanation regarding the specific wording of the provision in this regard.
This AEPD reminds that an analogous regulation, with the same purpose of protecting personal data - which requires those responsible for a certain location of the technical resources necessary for the provision of certain services in cases deemed of public interest by the legislator, or regarding the notification of their projects concerning the storage of personal data, etc. - has been approved by Royal Decree-Law 14/2019, of October 31, which adopts urgent measures for reasons of public security in the field of digital administration, public sector procurement, and telecommunications.
Specifically, in its article 5, it provides a new wording for paragraph 2 of article 122 of Law 9/2017, of November 8, on Public Sector Contracts (LCSP), which establishes (in the applicable part):
Without prejudice to what is established in article 28.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, in those contracts whose execution requires the contractor to process personal data on behalf of the data controller, additionally, the specifications will state:
a) The purpose for which such data will be transferred.
b) The obligation of the future contractor to comply in all cases with national and European Union regulations on data protection, without prejudice to what is established in the last paragraph of section 1 of article 202.
c) The obligation of the awarded company to present before the formalization of the contract a declaration indicating where the servers will be located and from where the associated services will be provided.
d) The obligation to communicate any changes that occur, throughout the life of the contract, to the information provided in the declaration referred to in point c) above.
e) The obligation of bidders to indicate in their offer, if they plan to subcontract the servers or the associated services, the name or business profile, defined by reference to the conditions of professional or technical solvency, of the subcontractors to whom the execution will be entrusted.
In the specifications corresponding to the contracts referred to in the previous paragraph, the obligations set forth in points a) to e) must in all cases be classified as essential for the purposes of what is provided in point f) of section 1 of article 211.
But, above all, article 3 of said Royal Decree-Law 14/2019 has already established the obligation to locate, in certain cases deemed of public interest, the necessary technical resources within the EU, or even specifically in Spain. Thus, articles 3.1 and 3.2 provide new wording for articles 9.3 and 10.3 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, as follows:
9.3. In relation to the identification systems provided for in point c) of the previous section, it is established that the necessary technical resources for the collection, storage, processing, and management of such systems must be located in the territory of the European Union, and in the case of special categories of data referred to in article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, in Spanish territory. In any case, the data will be available for access by the competent judicial and administrative authorities.
The data referred to in the previous paragraph may not be subject to transfer to a third country or international organization, except for those that have been subject to a decision of adequacy by the European Commission or when compliance with international obligations assumed by the Kingdom of Spain requires it.
Article 10.3, this time referring to signature systems (as opposed to the identification systems regulated in the aforementioned article 9.3), has similar wording:
10.3. In relation to the signature systems provided for in point c) of the previous section, it is established that the necessary technical resources for the collection, storage, processing, and management of such systems must be located in the territory of the European Union, and in the case of special categories of data referred to in article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, in Spanish territory. In any case, the data will be available for access by the competent judicial and administrative authorities.
Legal Office
The data referred to in the previous paragraph may not be subject to transfer to a third country or international organization, except for those that have been the subject of a decision of adequacy by the European Commission or when required for compliance with the international obligations assumed by the Kingdom of Spain. 
The drafter of the draft bill could use these same expressions and principles, especially regarding the location of "the necessary technical resources" for the collection, storage, processing, and management of such systems, as this seems to be the objective intended to be achieved with the legal provision of the LPBC now discussed in this section. 
IX
The draft bill provides a new wording for items a), c), d), and f) of section 2 of art. 49 of the LPBC. This provision deals with the exceptions to the reserved nature of any data and information held by the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Monetary Offenses or any of its bodies. 
It is noteworthy, first of all, the disparity of criteria regarding the request from judicial authorities of the criminal order or the public prosecutor to require information that is, in principle, reserved, since in these cases item d) requires that the requesting authority, that is, the judge or the public prosecutor, "expressly" invoke a legal provision that enables the request for information. Whereas, regarding the State Security Forces and Corps, there is no requirement to "expressly" invoke any provision that enables them to request such information; in this latter case, a reasoned request will suffice. 
Furthermore, secondly, and as this Agency has already had the opportunity to mention regarding art. 43.3, the necessity for the State Security Forces and Corps to have prior judicial or public prosecutor authorization to request data that is, in principle, reserved has not been contemplated. It should also be noted that the possibility for the State Security Forces and Corps to request information from the executive service of the commission as provided in this provision depends on whether it concerns an investigation of a serious crime. This further emphasizes the need for, as a prior guarantee to the processing of personal data that may result from such information, the State Security Forces and Corps to obtain the aforementioned judicial or public prosecutor authorization in advance. The entirety of the arguments previously presented regarding art. 43.3 is reiterated here (see section VII of this Report, and reference to Report 41/2018 of this AEPD). 
X
36
Legal Office
The Sole Article, sections forty-one to forty-five, of the draft bill modifies articles 56 and 57 of the LPBC to add some clarifications regarding the sanctions to be imposed. Specifically, in arts. 57.1 and 57.2, a final paragraph is introduced to take into account the possibility that when it is deemed that the publication of the identity of the responsible persons or the personal data of such persons is disproportionate or endangers the stability of financial markets or an ongoing investigation, a private reprimand will be opted for. This Agency agrees with the proposal. 

However, it is suggested that the drafter of the draft bill consider whether it is appropriate to modify section 5 of art. 57 to add as a reason for non-publication in the cases provided therein, when the sanctioned party is a natural person, that the publication of their personal data may be disproportionate. It is noteworthy that art. 60.1 of Directive 2015/843 does not prohibit this even in the case of very serious infringements. 

In fact, this Agency considers that there may be a discrepancy between Spanish legislation and Directive 2015/843, since art. 60 of this Directive effectively establishes that any firm decision imposing a sanction or administrative measure for non-compliance with the national provisions transposing this Directive must be published by the competent authorities. However, section b) of said art. 60 establishes without distinction for all types of sanctions that when the competent authority considers (sic) that the publication of the identity of the responsible persons referred to in the first paragraph or the personal data of such persons is disproportionate, after an evaluation in each case of the proportionality of such publication, (…) said authority may: b) publish the decision to impose a sanction or administrative measure anonymously in accordance with national legislation, provided that such anonymous publication guarantees effective protection of the personal data in question; if it is decided to publish a sanction or administrative measure anonymously, the publication of the relevant data may be postponed for a reasonable period of time if it is anticipated that during that period the reasons justifying a publication with protection of anonymity will cease to exist; Likewise, section c) of said art. 60.1 of the Directive provides for the possibility of not publishing if the publication is a disproportionate measure compared to measures considered of lesser importance. 

The drafter of the draft bill has not considered the possibility of taking into account the possibility of not publishing the personal data of natural persons provided for in the community regulation, for very serious sanctions in art. 56 nor for serious ones in art. 57.3 nor in art. 57.3.bis, nor in art. 57.5, so that in these cases (as long as they are transpositions of the Directive) the competent authority should also be able to take into account the possibility that the publication of the personal data of the infringing natural person was disproportionate after an evaluation in each case of the proportionality of such publication for the purposes of not publishing such decision. 

XI
Article 65, on the Protection of persons, connects with art. 63, relating to the reporting of infringements by employees, executives, and agents of obligated subjects who are aware of facts or situations that may constitute infringements. The draft bill adds a section 5 to art. 65 LPBC with the following wording: 
“5. Persons exposed to threats, hostile actions, or adverse employment measures for reporting internally or to the Executive Service of the Commission communications regarding activities related to money laundering or the financing of terrorism may file a complaint with the Executive Service of the Commission. By order of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, the communication model and the system for receiving communications will be approved to ensure their confidentiality and security.” 

This article is the transposition of art. 38 of Directive 2015/849, which has been reworded by Directive 2018/843. The current wording of said provision is: 
1. Member States shall ensure that persons, including employees and representatives of obligated entities, who report suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing, whether internally or to the FIU, are legally protected from any threat, retaliatory measure, or hostile action, and in particular from any adverse or discriminatory employment measure. 
2. Member States shall ensure that persons exposed to threats, retaliatory measures, or hostile actions or adverse or discriminatory employment measures for reporting internally or to the FIU suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing have the right to securely file a complaint with the respective competent authorities. Without prejudice to the confidentiality of the information collected by the FIU, Member States shall also ensure that such persons have the right to effective judicial protection in order to preserve their rights under this section. 

Its original wording was as follows: 
38
Legal Office
Member States shall ensure that individuals, including employees and representatives of obligated entities, who report their suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing, whether internally or to the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), are protected from any threat or hostile action, and in particular from any adverse or discriminatory employment measures. 
As can be seen, between the first draft of the Directive and the current one, (1) it is first established that the Member State must "guarantee," not simply "ensure," the protection of whistleblowers—which ultimately benefits the Member State, as greater security for whistleblowers leads to more reports. Secondly, (2) it is added that this guarantee of protection must be established "legally." And (3) the necessity for Member States to include in the law the possibility of filing a complaint with the competent authority is noted. The amendment to the Anti-Money Laundering Law (LPBC) only addresses this last circumstance, as expressly referred to by the MAIN when mentioning Article 65.5, without any mention of the other two modifications entailed by the new wording of the Directive. 
Given that the protection of whistleblowers ultimately benefits not only the money laundering prevention system but also the whistleblowers themselves, and therefore the protection of their personal data, this Agency considers it appropriate to suggest to the drafter of the draft bill the modification of this Article 65 LPBC to include "effective guarantees" for the whistleblower to prevent retaliation in the workplace. 
Thus, while Article 65.1 LPBC already states that reports made under Article 63: a) shall not constitute a violation or breach of restrictions on the disclosure of information; b) shall not constitute any type of infringement under labor regulations by the reporting individual, nor shall it lead to unfair or discriminatory treatment by the employer; c) shall not generate any right to compensation or indemnification in favor of the company, it is suggested that an effective guarantee be considered, namely, to treat a possible dismissal or disciplinary measure for such reasons as null and void, -with the consequences that this entails- by introducing it as a new letter d) in Article 55.5 of the Workers' Statute; or, if this is not deemed appropriate and the dismissal is considered unjustified, to grant the employee (instead of the employer) the option between reinstatement or payment of compensation as provided in Article 56.1 of the aforementioned Workers' Statute. These measures, if adopted, could represent the difference between the original wording, according to which it was sufficient for the Member State to "ensure" that there were no workplace reprisals, and the current obligation imposed by the Directive that the State must "effectively guarantee" that such reprisals do not occur. 
XII 
39
Legal Office
The draft bill adds a new Third Additional Provision (DA 3rd) to the LPBC to include the regulation on the Register of Beneficial Ownership, and a Fourth Additional Provision (DA 4th) to regulate access to said Register, the purpose of which is the transposition of Articles 30 and 31 of Directive 2015/843, in its part corresponding to this centralized single register, modified by Directive 2018/843. The drafter of the draft bill has deemed it appropriate that the obligations to create a single central register that collects the beneficial ownership of legal entities (Art. 30.3 of Directive 2015/849) and of trusts of the “trust” type (Art. 31.3 bis of said Directive) be combined in the same central register. This legislative option is acceptable; however, there are differences in the regulation in both cases, which necessitates the establishment of different rules, depending on the case, especially regarding access, which, in the opinion of this Agency, have not been satisfactorily resolved.

From the perspective of personal data protection, Recital 38 of Directive 2018/843 (Fifth Directive) establishes:
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council applies to the processing of personal data in accordance with this Directive. As a consequence, individuals whose personal data is retained in national registers as beneficial owners must be informed in this regard. Furthermore, only personal data that is up-to-date and corresponds to the effective beneficial owners should be provided, and the beneficiaries must be informed of their rights under the current framework for data protection in the Union, as established by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the applicable procedures for exercising those rights. Additionally, to prevent the misuse of the information contained in the registers and to balance the rights of beneficial owners, Member States may consider the possibility of providing the beneficial owner with data regarding the person requesting the information, along with the legal basis for their request.

This is complemented by Recital 40: This Directive is understood without prejudice to the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities in accordance with Directive (EU) 2016/680.
  

Firstly, the DA 3rd assigns the “management” of the single central Register to the Ministry of Justice, thus considering it responsible for the processing of personal data, and therefore subject to the obligations established by the GDPR, including the maintenance of the corresponding register of processing activities, information to the data subjects, access, rectification, etc. The provision does not mention this circumstance, so it should do so for the complete regulation of the processing of personal data.
Legal Office

Likewise, this Agency, in light of the regulation of the LPBC, which establishes limitations on the fundamental right to the protection of personal data of the interested parties in various cases, but which do not apply (see recital 38 of the aforementioned Directive) to the beneficial owners whose data is recorded in the Registry, considers it necessary, for the effectiveness of their personal rights, that it be expressly stated that the natural persons whose personal data is retained in the registry as beneficial owners must be informed accordingly in accordance with the current regulations on the protection of personal data.

In section 5 of DA 3, it is established that foundations, associations, and in general all legal entities must update their data annually. This possibility of updating the data must be specified as "at least annually" since not only due to the principle of accuracy of art. 5.1.d) GDPR, but also directly by the Directive 2015/849, art. 31.5 states that Member States shall require that the information retained in the central registry referred to in paragraph 3 bis is adequate, accurate, and up-to-date, and shall establish mechanisms for this purpose. To this end, it establishes mechanisms for the obligated subjects, and where applicable, for the competent authorities themselves. An "annual" update is not considered to comply with the principle of accuracy, but rather, necessary mechanisms must be foreseen to ensure that the information is updated at all times. The update "at least annually" may be a mechanism for updating, but certainly does not, by itself, fulfill the principle of accuracy.

It is worth mentioning that the principle of data minimization (art. 5.1c) GDPR) would not allow the recording in this Registry of personal data whose recording is not mandatory under the regulation that establishes the processing of personal data.

In DA 4, its first section regulates "unrestricted" access to certain authorities to said registry of beneficial ownership. Section 6 of art. 31 of Directive 2015/849 states:
6. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities and FIUs have timely and unrestricted access to all information retained in the registry referred to in paragraph 3, without alerting the entity concerned. Member States shall also allow timely access to obligated entities that undertake due diligence measures with respect to the customer in accordance with Chapter II. The competent authorities that will be granted access to the central registry under paragraph 3 will be those with specific responsibilities in the fight against money laundering or the financing of terrorism, as well as tax authorities, supervisors of obligated entities, and authorities whose function is the investigation or prosecution of money laundering, related underlying offenses, and the financing of terrorism, tracing and seizure or confiscation of assets of criminal origin.
The text of paragraph 1 of DA 4 states:
1.
It shall be the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to guarantee and control access to the information contained in the Registry of Beneficial Ownership under the conditions established by law and those determined by regulation. This information shall be accessible, free of charge and without restriction, to authorities with competencies in the prevention and repression of crimes of financing of terrorism, money laundering, and their preceding offenses, including the prosecution service, judicial bodies, law enforcement agencies, the National Intelligence Center, the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Monetary Offenses and its support bodies, supervisory bodies in case of agreement, the Asset Recovery and Management Office, the State Agency for Tax Administration, and those authorities that are determined by regulation. All these authorities, as well as notaries and registrars, may access not only the current data on the beneficial ownership of the person or entity but also the historical data that has been recorded, as well as those that, in case of discrepancy, have not been published in the Registry.
In relation to this list of possible accesses, it must be reiterated once again in this Report that access by the State Security Forces and the National Intelligence Center will be admissible, as previously stated in this report, with the necessary prior authorization from the public prosecutor or the judicial authority. On the other hand, the text of the draft law seems to establish an open list of entities that may have access to this registry of beneficial ownership, given that the use of the expression "including" leaves open, or seems to leave open, that the authorities that may have access to this registry of beneficial ownership are more than those specifically mentioned in the provision. This Agency considers such wording inappropriate, as any processing of personal data constitutes an interference with the fundamental right to the protection of personal data of the interested parties, so this wording should eliminate the expression "including" and limit it to the cited authorities, and always with the addition of the already mentioned need for judicial authorization in the reiterated cases.

Paragraph 4 of DA 4 (its first sentence) establishes:
Legal Office
4.
Access to the information available in the Register will require prior identification of the applicant and accreditation of the condition under which access is requested, as well as the interest in its knowledge, in the terms established by regulation. (…)
As mentioned earlier, there are differences in the regulation of the Directive depending on whether the beneficial ownership is held by companies or by trust-type fiduciaries. Thus, since the regulation of Article 4 of the Additional Provision encompasses access to beneficial ownership both (i) for companies or legal entities and (ii) for trust-type fiduciaries, it must be emphasized, as stated at the beginning of this section, that the regulation of such access in Directive 2015/849 (amended by Directive 2018/843) is different regarding, above all, public access to each type of information. Thus, Article 30.5 of the Directive, regarding information on the beneficial ownership of companies, establishes:
5. Member States shall ensure that information on beneficial ownership is available in all cases to:
a) competent authorities and FIUs, without any restriction;
b) obligated entities, within the framework of due diligence regarding the customer in accordance with Chapter II;
c) any member of the general public.
(…)
However, Article 31.4, regarding access to the beneficial ownership of trust-type fiduciaries, establishes:
4. Member States shall ensure that information on the beneficial ownership of a trust (of the "trust" type) or analogous legal instrument is made available in all cases to:
a) competent authorities and FIUs, without any restriction;
b) obligated entities, within the framework of the application of due diligence measures in accordance with Chapter II;
c) any natural or legal person who can demonstrate a legitimate interest;
d) any natural or legal person who submits a written request regarding a trust (of the "trust" type) or analogous legal instrument that holds or owns a controlling interest in a company or other legal entity not mentioned in Article 30, paragraph 1, through direct or indirect ownership, including bearer share portfolios, or through control by other means.
As observed, the need to demonstrate a legitimate interest (which is basically a new personal data of the applicant) is only required by the Directive for requests for real information about trust-type fiduciaries, but not for a request for information regarding beneficial ownership of a company or entity without legal personality as provided in Article 30 of the Directive. Consequently, the expression found in paragraph 4 of the Fourth Additional Provision of the draft: “(…) and accreditation of the condition under which access is requested, and the interest in its knowledge (…)”, insofar as it implies the disclosure by the interested party of personal data not required by the Directive regarding requests for access to the register of beneficial ownership of legal entities (regulated in Article 30 of the Directive), is considered contrary to the principle of data minimization provided in Article 5.1.c of the GDPR. It would be acceptable regarding requests for access to the beneficial ownership of trust-type fiduciaries, as the Directive establishes in its Article 31, as we have seen, a stricter legitimization to access such data.
Regarding the expression “in the terms provided by regulation,” it suffices to recall what has already been extensively stated in this report: any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law, which implies that the legal basis allowing interference with such rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right in question.
Or as established by the Constitutional Court in ruling STC 292/2000, already cited:
In this regard, we have already stated [STC 127/1994, F.J. 5, with reference to STC 83/1984, F.J. 4, and 99/1987, F.J. 3 a)] that even in areas reserved by the Constitution for regulation by Law, an auxiliary or complementary intervention by Regulation is not impossible, but only insofar as these references effectively restrict the exercise of that regulatory power to a complement of the legal regulation that is indispensable for technical reasons or to optimize compliance with the objectives proposed by the Constitution or by the Law itself. Thus, such a reference does not entail a renunciation by the legislator of its power to establish limits to fundamental rights, transferring this power to the holder of the regulatory authority, without even setting out what the objectives that the regulation must pursue are, since, in such a case, the legislator would merely be “deferring to the Government's regulation the very object reserved” (STC 227/1993, of July 9, F.J. 4, citing the expression from STC 77/1985, of June 27, F.J. 14).
Therefore, if the reference to the regulation made by this provision goes beyond mere technical reasons, the legislator would be neglecting its obligation to regulate in the law itself that establishes the processing of personal data the limits to the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, and such a norm (the law, and of course, the regulation) would be unconstitutional for violating that fundamental right.
Legal Office

The second sentence of section 4 of the Fourth Additional Provision states:
Furthermore, prior payment of a fee covering the cost of the Registry and, where applicable, the sources of the data included therein, shall be mandatory, by the system established by regulation. Payment of fees shall not be required for accesses made by public authorities.
Articles 30.5 bis and 31.4 bis of the Directive establish that the payment of said fee shall not exceed the administrative costs of making the information available, including the costs of maintaining and developing the registry.
There is no explanation in the MAIN for the different wording between community and national regulations, and why some concepts differ from others, so if the amount of the fee applying national regulations were to be higher than that which would be obtained by applying the concepts established by the Directive, the law would be contrary to the latter.

The wording of section 5 of the Fourth Additional Provision is not entirely in accordance with articles 30.9 and 31.7 bis of Directive 2015/849. The Directive establishes that access to the register of beneficial ownership may be exempted in cases that may expose the beneficial owner to a disproportionate risk, a risk of fraud, kidnapping, extortion, harassment, violence, or intimidation, or if the beneficial owner is a minor or has another type of legal incapacity. That is to say, the Directive exempts such access both (i) in cases of “disproportionate risk” and (ii) in cases of “risk of fraud, etc.” The “risk of fraud, kidnapping, extortion, etc.” does not need to be “disproportionate”; it is sufficient for its mere existence to be assessed by the Registry official. The “disproportionate risk” is a different cause for denying access to the registry than the “risk of fraud, extortion, etc.”, so the wording of the Fourth Additional Provision will need to be modified to align it with the Directive and not exclude this limitation on access to the personal data contained in the Registry.
XIII
As we have seen, the GDPR applies to the processing of personal data in accordance with Directive 2015/849, but this is without prejudice to the protection of personal data processed by the “competent authorities” in accordance with Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses or executing criminal sanctions, and the free movement of such data and repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of the Council (See Recital 40 of Directive 2018/843).
Given that this Directive 2016/680 has not yet been transposed, the LOPDGDD established in its Fourth Transitional Provision that the processing subject to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses or executing criminal sanctions, and the free movement of such data and repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of the Council, shall continue to be governed by Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, and in particular Article 22, and its implementing provisions, until the regulation transposing the provisions of the aforementioned directive into Spanish law comes into force.
Given that the draft law does not mention the circumstance that the “competent authorities” (this Agency understands that this specific mention, given the subject matter it regulates, strictly refers to the Spanish national competent authority for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, namely, the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Monetary Offenses, and where applicable, its support bodies), as specified in Recital 40 of Directive 2018/843, may process data in accordance with Directive 2016/680, this Agency considers it appropriate to include in the law -perhaps in an additional provision- a mention of this circumstance that also reflects the content of the Fourth Transitional Provision of the LOPDGDD, which could have the following content:
The regulation contained in this law is understood without prejudice to the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities in accordance with the regulations that transpose into Spanish law Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting, or prosecuting criminal offenses or executing criminal sanctions, and the free movement of such data and repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of the Council.
Until Directive 2016/680 is transposed into Spanish law, the Fourth Transitional Provision of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights, shall apply.