media information
Saxon data protection officer

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
extension
Telephone +49 351 85471 120
Fax +49 351 85471 109
sdb.presse@ slt.sachsen.de*
06/17/2021

More consultations and significant increase in reported
data breaches
Saxon data protection officer presents activity report

The Saxon data protection officer Andreas Schurig on Thursday
presented its activity report for the past year in Dresden.
On almost 180 pages, the focal points of the supervisory activity are
Statistics, information on the interpretation of the General Data Protection Regulation,
summarized on sanction practice and data protection case law.
The report also contains an overview of the published ones
Documents of the data protection conference and the
European
Data Protection Board.
High need for advice
Andreas Schurig: »As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, digitization is in
progressed rapidly in almost all areas of life. Accordingly
personal data is being exchanged more and more frequently, what
often associated with data protection issues. numerous citizens,
Companies and above all public authorities turned with their
request to me. The number of consultations increased in the reporting period
to over 1,000 – an increase of almost 70 percent from that
previous year.«
Pandemic as a test for data protection
In 2020, the Saxon data protection officer advised, among other things,
State government on the Corona protection regulations. Also went
Hundreds of complaints about data protection-related issues and
Request at
him, for example for contact tracing
by health authorities, data protection in the home office, data processing
in connection with the Saxon learning platform LernSax,
Health confirmations for school attendance, required information from

Page 1 of 6

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden

https://www.saechsdsb.de/

To reach with the
Tram line 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)

* No access for encrypted
electronic documents. Access
for qualified electronic signatures
Documents only under the on
www.lsf.sachsen.de/eSignatur.html
noted conditions.

Mask exemption certificates, forwarding of lists with those who tested positive
and quarantined people to the police and much more.
»Since the beginning of the pandemic, data protection has always been an issue
Criticism. Pubs have been closed most of the time so far, slogans
at regulars' table level such as 'Data protection prevents the pandemic
Unfortunately, we were not spared. That assertion sticks
fact check did not stand. Nor does it become more correct by
is repeated more often. She helps at most those who are a scapegoat
need or solve complex problems with populist demands
want. The fact is that neither the General Data Protection Regulation nor the
further data protection laws prevent the fight against the pandemic,
they only show the limits – especially for processing
of health data. Therefore, I remind you once again that it
data protection is a fundamental right and an essential feature of our
democracy acts. Associated with the consideration of others
Every human being should continue to be able to determine basic rights
who processes their data and for what purpose. Attempts to protect privacy
to circumvent or abolish, are therefore an attack on this
civil rights and our free democratic basic order
Andrew Schurig.
in the
Year 2020 sat down the national and European
Data protection supervisory authorities strengthened with the data protection compliant
contact tracing apart. In the first half of this year
vaccination and recovery certificates now came into focus. Saxony
opened up the possibility of using the Corona-Warn-App
as well as the implementation of model projects for the realization of
Exceptions to Pandemic Restrictions.
Andreas Schurig: »It is the right way out of this pandemic if we
use the opportunities of digitization. Risks and applicable law
therefore should not be ignored. That goes without saying
also for Corona model projects that are submitted to me for review.
Nobody is helped if the respective concept violates the principles of the
Data protection violates - neither the person responsible nor the people
whose data is being processed.«
So far
Model project applications have been forwarded
Saxon Corona Protection Ordinance).
There are serious difficulties in implementation
or that those submitted for model project applications
Documents often incomplete and
have been insufficient.
Recurring problems included ambiguities as to which
bodies involved in the project which personal data
process, a missing procedural description, one that has not been submitted
List of processing activities under Article 30 data protection
Basic Regulation, the non-existent representation and justification of the
Processing of employee data, in particular what access and
Access rights, documentation, employee information,
a missing deletion concept, a data protection
Impact assessment, a missing concept for information security - im

27
(Applications according to § 31

Saxon data protection officer

to the

are

Page 2 of 6

Specifically for the cryptographic protection of stored sensitive data
- as well as a lack of solutions in the planned processing
of data in third countries outside the EU. Insufficient documentation
make it difficult for the supervisory authority to assess data protection law
and delay the start of corresponding projects.
Colorful mix of topics and too few employees
Although the past year was heavily influenced by the pandemic,
therefore no fewer concerns about other data protection issues. So
received the Saxon data protection officer almost every day
and information on video surveillance. »The videograph presented as in
a focus of work in previous years. The cases often stood
in connection with the illegal use of dashcams
by the police during traffic checks," explains Andreas Schurig.
The Saxon data protection officer surveyed for the first time in 2020
Municipalities to implement the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). she
has been in effect since May 25, 2018 and forms the basis for a uniform
Data protection law in the European Union. The communes were under
among other things, asked whether they had already made organizational arrangements
have taken to provide citizens with electronic requests for information, whether
there is a data protection officer and to what extent difficulties in
dealing with declarations of consent.
»Overall, the survey results give a good impression of how the
Provisions of the GDPR until the beginning of 2020 in the Saxon municipalities
were implemented. The evaluation revealed not only which ones
challenges have been overcome. At the same time, the decits increased
days. These findings are already part of my consulting work in 2020
included to further increase the level of data protection in the communities
improve,« Andreas Schurig draws a positive conclusion.
Citizens, companies and public authorities have repeatedly addressed themselves
with questions and input on cookie banners and the use of
messengers to him. In other cases, Andreas Schurig dealt with
Requests for information from schools, the data protection-compliant deletion of
customer proles, with the transfer of tenant contact data to brokers and
Subsequent tenants and many other concerns.
There was also the »Schrems II« judgment of the European Court of Justice,
of the Privacy Shield Agreement between the EU and the USA for
declared invalid. As a result, US companies are no longer able to
on the previous basis personal data of EU citizens
to process. This decision forced a large number of economic,
political and social actors to act. The Saxon
Data Protection Officer also advised on this matter.
»The volume of work in my office has increased in recent years
years increased drastically. There are mutliple reasons for this. So are
For example, many citizens are more aware of their right to informational
Self-determination and turn to me more often. On the other hand is a
to register an increase in tasks, which is mainly due to data protection
Basic Regulation as well as to national and regional laws and
regulations is due. The additional effort is visible on the basis of

Page 3 of 6

the inboxes. They have almost doubled since 2017. With 17,100
my agency set a new record in 2020. Unfortunately, the
Job development hasn't kept pace, so the for years
Existing understaffing means that we are performing the statutory duties
still not fully fulfiled. It's a ray of light and
a first step that my department recently completed
budget negotiations, eight new positions were awarded, which we
want to occupy in the coming months«, says Andreas Schurig.
His agency currently employs over 30 staff, representing more than
150,000 companies, 29,000 clubs, 2.2 million private households as well
numerous public authorities in Saxony with regard to their handling
monitor personal data.
Reports of data breaches at a new high
According to Article 33 of the General Data Protection Regulation, we are responsible
obliged, in case of violation of the protection of personal
Data immediately and if possible within 72 hours after becoming known
to report the violation to the supervisory authority. Exception: The
Breach of personal data protection is likely to result
not create a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals.
"In the
in my office 635 reports from
data breaches received. Compared to the previous year corresponds
an increase of more than 40 percent. Forecast on the
This upward trend will continue in the coming years. Because with the
With the increasing digital recording of our lives, the risk of
Data breaches," explains Andreas Schurig.
The following case groups are particularly frequent in the reporting period
been reported:

year 2020 are

• Cybercrime: Typical fields of action were the

Encryption and tapping of personal data
Data from e-mail inboxes, from servers or otherwise
data carriers. *

• Wrong shipment: This group of cases fell within the reporting period
most reports. Typical cases: documents with incorrect
Allocation, faulty enveloping or mix-up of the
recipient person. Health data were often affected
due to their high sensitivity and confidentiality
particularly high degree of care by the responsible body
support financially. *

• Open e-mail distribution lists are still the classic

of the data breach. Although here in the
The risk for those affected is generally quite low
can be estimated is such a data breach
according to the General Data Protection Regulation in most cases
notifiable. *

• The loss of documents in the mail occurred in the year under review
frequently. If such a problem becomes known, a
critical evaluation of the shipping service provider is required. *

Page 4 of 6

• Burglary and theft are particularly problematic.

They count as criminal acts, and that's that
associated risk for the persons concerned in particular
high. Therefore, technical and organizational measures
required, such as proper custody and
Encryption of data carriers. *

Complaints about data protection violations at a high level
The emergence of complaints and notices of data protection violations
was only slightly lower than in the previous year at 1,247 (2019: 1,297). Since
The General Data Protection Regulation will come into effect in 2018
the number of complaints and reports received each year more than doubled.
If the entries in the non-public area fell in 2020, they
public sector significantly compared to 2019.
Leading role in the data protection conference
For the Saxon data protection officer, the year 2020 was nonetheless
exceptional with regard to the work in the data protection conference (DSK).
After 2003, Saxony chaired the for the second time in 2020
Conference of the independent federal data protection supervisory authorities
and the countries inside. As expected, this was a high workload
tied together.
Andreas Schurig: “Despite the burden of the pandemic and the restrictions
on digital meetings, the results can be found under our
presidency. In the past year, more than
20 resolutions, decisions, guidance and materials
published, for example on the use of video conferencing systems
and thermal imagers or
to legislation like this
Patient Data Protection Act. Without the solution-oriented and committed
This would be cooperation between the German data protection supervisory authorities
not been possible.«
Furthermore, the Saxon data protection officer organized the
European Data Protection Day, January 28, 2021 on the topic
»Cross-Border Data Transfers« took place. 'For the finally as
I was able to take part in the online conference together with
the Federal Ministry of the Interior, for building and homeland outstanding
Attract experts from the Council of Europe and the European Union.
The conference was attended by almost 1,000 participants from all over the world
the best-attended European Data Protection Day since its inception«,
sums up Andreas Schurig.

Media:
Photo: Presentation of the 2020 activity report

Articles of the publication database:
Saxon Data Protection Officer - Activity Report 2020

Left:

Page 5 of 6

Activity report 2020 (PDF file)
Figures at a glance (PDF file)

Page 6 of 6

