Our ref.: 11.17.001.010.239 
 

 
 

 

Decision 

 

28 February 2024 

Complaint regarding the right to access 

 
A  complaint  was  lodged  with  my  Office,  on  25/11/2022,  on  behalf  of  XXXX  against  Brivio 
Limited, regarding the right of access (Article 15 of the GDPR). 
 
 
1. Description of the case 
 
1.1.  The  complaint  was  lodged  on  25/11/2022,  by  XXXX  (hereinafter,  “the  Law  Firm”)  on 
behalf  of  XXXX  (hereinafter,  “the  Complainant”)  against  Brivio  Limited  (hereinafter,  “the 
Controller”)  and  involves  the  Controller’s  failure  to  comply  with  the  Complainant’s  access 
request. 
 
1.2.  Since  the  attached,  to  the  complaint  form,  written  request  to  the  Controller,  was  in 
German, the  Commissioner,  on  30/12/2022,  asked  the  Complainant  to  provide  the  Greek  or 
English  version  of  the  said  document  in  order  to  be  able  to  investigate  the  complaint.  On 
10/01/2023, the Commissioner received an English translation of the complaint. 
 
1.3.  According  to  the  Complainant,  he  had  been  a  customer  of  the  Controller.  The  former 
contacted  the  latter  via  the  Law  Firm,  at  the  postal  address  “Office  102,  12A  Lekorpouzier, 
3075 Limassol, Zypern” on 10.10.2022, requesting that the Controller provides him with “cost-
free  and  complete  (including  data  regarding  other  websites)  information”  regarding  the 
payment  and  gaming  history,  as  well  as  all  other  personal  data  relating  to  him,  as  was  his 
legal  right  according  to  Article  15  of  the  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679 
(hereinafter, “the GDPR”). He requested the said information to be delivered to the legal office 
within one month at the latest. 
 
1.4. Moreover, information about the following questions was requested in case the Controller 
processed personal data of the Complainant: 
 

“1. What personal data do you process? 
2. For what purpose(s) do you process this data? 
3. Where does this data come from? 
4.  Have  you  transferred  or  do  you  plan  to  transfer  these  data  to  third  parties?  If  yes,  to 
whom, when and for what purpose(s)? 
5. Send us the complete payment and gaming history of all gaming accounts of our clients 
in machine-readable excel format. 
6. How long will you process the data (data deletion concept)? 
7. Have you created a profile regarding our client? If yes, please tell us the content of this 
profile and how it was created”. 

 
 
 
1.5.  Nevertheless,  the  Complainant  claimed  that  he  had  not  received  any  response  to  his 
request despite the deadline and the documented delivery. 
 
 
2. Investigation by Cyprus SA 
 
2.1. The Commissioner contacted the Controller on 19/01/2023 and requested the reason for 
not  responding  to  the  Complainant’s  access  request  as  well  as  any  other  information  they 

deemed necessary. The Controller was also informed for the provisions of the Articles 15(1) 
and 12(3) of the GDPR. 
 
2.2. In their reply, on 31/01/2023, the Controller stated, inter alia, the following: 
 

ii. 

i.  On  24/10/2022,  the  Controller  received  at  their  postal  address  (Office  102,  12A 
Lekorpouzier, 3075 Limassol, Zypern) a letter from the Law Firm requesting access to 
personal data of the Complainant according to Article 15 of the GDPR. 
 
The Controller’s internal investigation has determined that a failure by a staff member 
responsible for  registering  incoming  correspondence  and  redirecting  it  to  the relevant 
departments and officers was the reason for the non-answering within the one-month 
period. 
 

iv. 

iii.  However,  the  Controller  noted  that  they  were  experiencing  a  higher-than-normal 
volume  of  data  subjects’  requests  (DSARs).  During  the  period  of  October  2022  to 
January  2023,  they  received  twenty-seven  DSARs  at  their  postal  address  and  ten 
DSARs at their e-mail address dedicated to privacy matters, from the Law Firm, all on 
behalf of different data subjects. 
 
The  Controller  fully  complied  with  all  of  the  DSARs  received  from  the  Law  Firm, 
providing  all  necessary  information  in  a  timely  manner.  This  statistic  shows  that  their 
commitment to fulfilling data protection obligations is a top priority, and they continue to 
work closely with the Law Firm to ensure the accurate processing of their DSARs. 
 
The  Controller  has  taken  all  reasonable  measures  to  allow  data  subjects  to  exercise 
their  rights  in  accordance  with  the  GDPR.  Despite  all  their  employees  being  well 
qualified  and  trained,  in  some  cases,  they  cannot  completely  prevent  a  human  error 
that is generally common in the person’s behaviour, especially when faced with a high 
volume of DSARs from one law firm. 
 

v. 

vi.  Upon  receipt  of  the  complaint,  the  Controller’s  Data  Protection  Team  immediately 
reached  out  to  the  Law  Firm.  On  19/01/2023,  they  sent  personal  data  of  the 
Complainant  to  the  Law  Firm  and  answered  to  the  questions  regarding  their  privacy 
practices.  
 
The Controller conducted additional explanatory sessions for their team on the proper 
fulfilment  of  their  professional  duties  and  implemented  additional  supervision  in  the 
correspondence management process. 

vii. 

 
2.3.  Moreover,  the  Controller  asked  for  the  Commissioner’s  expert  advice  regarding  the 
DSARs submitted by the Law Firm and mentioned, inter alia, the following: 
 
Taking into account the number, frequency, and purpose of DSARs submitted by the Law Firm 
on  behalf  of  their  clients,  the  Controller  believes  that  they  have  all  reasonable  grounds  to 
consider these requests “manifestly unfounded” under the GDPR. The Controller has several 
factors that they consider to be evidence of the abuse of data subject rights as granted by the 
GDPR: 
 

i.  Using the right of access for purposes that are not related to data protection: 

 

 

the Law Firm  acts  as a legal representative of the Controller’s customers who 
are  dissatisfied  with  the  latter’s  services  and  seeking  reimbursement.  For  this 
purpose, the Law Firm submits DSARs prior to making any legal complaints or 
demands. 
 

 

2 

  According  to  Recital  63  of  the  GDPR,  Art.  15  of  the  GDPR  grants  the  data 
subject a right “to be aware of, and verify, the lawfulness of the processing”. In 
the  current  situation,  considering  all  circumstances,  it  can  be  argued  that  the 
intention  of  the  Law  Firm  is  not  to  actually  verify  the  lawfulness  of  the 
processing. 
 

  For clarity, it is  worth mentioning that shortly after complying with DSARs,  the 
Controller  often  receives  claims  for  reimbursement  on  behalf  of  the  relevant 
customer with a warning to file a lawsuit with court in case of failure to satisfy 
the  claims.  This  implies  that  the  Law  Firm  has  motives  that  are  unrelated  to 
data protection and privacy. 
 

  The Controller assumes that the goal of the data subject requests submitted by 
the  Law  Firm  is  not  to  exercise  the  right  of  access  as  outlined  in  Article 15  of 
the GDPR, but rather to fish for legal opportunities, use the information against 
the Controller and gain financial benefits. This makes the baseless nature of the 
DSARs clear and obvious. 

 

 

ii.  Number and frequency of DSARs: 

 

the  Law  Firm  submitted  over  thirty-five  DSARs  on  behalf  of  different  data 
subjects to the Controller between October 2022 and January 2023, using both 
the  Controller’s  postal  and  privacy  email  address.  Such  a  high  volume  of 
requests  not  only  causes  disruption  and  places  an  excessive  burden  on  the 
Controller to respond, but also creates potential legal and compliance risks. 
 

  As demonstrated, there are reasonable grounds to consider DSARs submitted 

by the Law Firm as “manifestly unfounded”: 
 

• the Law Firm has no genuine interest in exercising the right of access on 
behalf of its customers and is instead exploiting its formal legal position to 
use DSARs as means of disrupting the business activity of the Controller; 
• the Law Firm is targeting our Company on behalf of data subjects who 
are left dissatisfied with our services; 
•  the  Law  Firm  systematically  sends  identical  requests  on  behalf  of 
different data subjects as part of a campaign. 

 

  The Controller makes all reasonable efforts to comply with its obligation under 
the  GDPR  to  facilitate  the  exercise  of  data  subjects'  rights.  Despite  the 
manifestly unfounded nature of these requests, we have never refused the Law 
Firm's  requests  for  a  copy  of  the  personal  data.  However,  the  number  of 
requests from the Law Firm continues to grow, putting an increasing burden on 
the Controller in terms of time and resources. 
 

  Given  that  the  threshold  for  recognizing  data  subject  requests  as  “manifestly 
unfounded” under the GDPR is too vague and that we were not able to find any 
specific  guidelines  of  the  Commissioner  in  this  regard,  we  are  seeking  the 
Commissioner's  expert  advice  on  whether  we  can  refuse  future  DSARs  from 
the Law Firm due to their manifestly unfounded nature. 

 
2.4.  On  28/06/2023,  the  Commissioner  contacted  the  Law  Firm  and  asked  them  to  confirm 
whether the access request had indeed been satisfied. 
 
2.5.  Also,  on  05/09/2023,  the  Commissioner  asked  the  Controller  to  provide  evidence 
regarding their position that both the Complainant’s personal data and answers to questions 
about the Controller’s privacy practices had been sent to the Law Firm. 
 

 

3 

2.6.  The  Controller  replied  on  22/09/2023,  repeated  the  content  of  its  previous  letter  and 
attached the following files: 
 

i. 

ii. 

An  email  from  the  Controller  to  the  Law  Firm  says,  inter  alia,  that  a  copy  of  the 
Complainant’s  personal  data  as  well  as  answers  to  the  questions  regarding  the 
Controller’s  practices  for  processing  personal  data  are  sent.  It  appears  that  four  flies 
were attached to this email. 
 
The Controller shared with the Commissioner’s Office, a record with title “Data Subject 
Access  Requests  Obtained  from  the  Law  Firm  during  the  period  of  October  2022  to 
January 2023”, including the date of receiving, the reference number of each request, 
the response date and the source (email or postal address), as well as screenshots of 
each  data  subject  request  and  the  response  from  the  Controller.  As  the  latter 
mentions,  “Detailed  information  regarding  the  receipt  and  timely  response  to  each 
request is available in the Evidence 2’ file accompanying this letter”. 

 
2.7.  On  01/11/2023,  the  Commissioner  received  a  confirmation  from  the  Law  Firm  that  the 
requested information was fulfilled in January 2023. 
 
 
3. Preliminary Decision 
 
3.1. In view of all the information provided before the Commissioner and pursuant the Articles 
58 and 83 GDPR, on 17/11/2023, the Commissioner issued a Preliminary Decision, according 
to  which  there  was  an  infringement  of  the  Article  12(3)  GDPR,  on  behalf  of  the  Controller, 
since  the  latter  failed  to  respond  to  the  Complainant’s  access  request  within  the  one-month 
period  and,  hence,  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  aforementioned  Article.  The 
Preliminary Decision was notified to the Controller, at the aforementioned date. 
 
3.2.  Moreover,  the  Controller  was  informed  that,  based  on  the  provisions  of  Article  58(2) 
GDPR,  the  Commissioner  has  the  authority  to  impose  an  administrative  fine  pursuant  to 
Article 83 GDPR. The Controller was given the right to be heard provided by Article 43 of the 
General  Administrative  Law  Principles  Law  of  1999,  of  Law  158(I)/1999,  as  amended  and 
invited, by 15/12/2023 at the latest, to state reasons why they believe they should had not be 
sanctioned  and/or  any  mitigating  factors  that  they  believe  should  had  taken  into  account 
before  a  Decision  was  issued.  Also,  they  were  requested  to  inform  the Commissioner  about 
their turnover for the previous financial year. 
 
3.3.  On  14/12/2023,  the  Controller  responded  to  the  Preliminary  Decision  and  stated,  inter 
alia, the following: 
 

i. 

In  the  recent  case  Lees  v  Lloyds  Bank  Plc  EWHC  2249  (Ch)  (24  August  2020)  that 
occurred  in  the  United  Kingdom,  the  claimant  submitted  multiple  DSARs  to  the  bank 
regarding his properties. The bank failed to respond to some of the DSARs within the 
stipulated  one-month  period.  Moreover,  the  claimant  was  dissatisfied  with  the 
responses to certain DSARs, leading him to take the matter to court. The court decided 
that  the  claim  was  without  merit  and  should  be  dismissed.  In  reaching  the  final 
decision, the court considered the following factors: 
 

  The issue of numerous and repetitive DSARs which is abusive; 

 

 

  The real purpose of the DSARs was to obtain documents rather than personal 

data; 
 

  There was a collateral purpose that lay behind the requests which was to obtain 
assistance  in  preventing  the  bank  from  bringing  claims  for  possession.  A 
collateral  purpose  of  assisting  in  litigation  is  not  an  absolute  answer  to  there 

4 

being an obligation to answer a DSAR, but it is a relevant factor in the exercise 
of the court’s discretion; 
 

  The fact that the data sought will be of no benefit to the claimant. The claims for 
possession  have  been  the  subject  of  final  determinations  in  the  County  Court 
from which all available avenues of appeal have been exhausted. 

ii. 

Keeping in mind the court’s conclusion, the following refer to “the DSAR submitted by 
the Law Firm”: 

 

 

  Abusive  Nature  of  DSAR:  The  number  and  repetitive  nature  of  the  DSARs 
submitted by  the Law Firm were highly unusual and abusive.  The volume and 
frequency of the requests exceeded what is typically considered reasonable for 
a  DSAR.  Detailed  evidence  of  the  frequency  /  excessive  nature  of  these 
requests,  has  been  provided 
their  previous 
correspondence. 
 

the  Commissioner 

to 

in 

  Real Purpose of DSARs for Legal Procedures: The real intent behind the DSAR 
in question was not a genuine interest in personal data access as intended by 
the  GDPR,  but  rather  an  attempt  to  gather  information  for  potential  litigation. 
This  misuse  of  DSARs  as  a  legal  tool  detracts  from  their  intended  purpose  of 
protecting individual data rights, as outlined in the GDPR’s principles of fairness 
and transparency. 
 

  Collateral Purpose for Legal Proceedings: The collateral purpose of the DSAR 
was  to  acquire  documents  to  assist  the  lawyer’s  position  in  potential  legal 
proceedings against our company. 

Emerging trends in data protection regulation, such as those reflected in the UK’s draft 
Data  Protection  and  Digital  Information  Bill,  propose  to  categorize  certain  DSARs  as 
“vexatious”  if  they  constitute  “an  abuse  of  process”.  This  bill  reflects  new  “best 
practices” in regulatory approaches that acknowledge the importance of assessing the 
intent  behind  DSARs  when  determining  compliance  and  sanctions.  This  reflects  a 
growing  recognition  in  the  field  of  data  protection  that  the  right  of  access  must  be 
balanced  against  misuse  for  unrelated  purposes.  This  evolving  perspective  is  in 
harmony with the GDPR’s commitment to reasonable and fair data processing. 
 
In  light  of  these  factors,  the  DSAR  submitted  by  the  Law  Firm  was  not  motivated  by 
genuine privacy concerns but rather served as a pre-litigation disclosure exercise. As 
such, there has been no serious breach of user privacy rights. 

 
iii. 

iv. 

 

v. 

The turnover of the Controller, for the financial year, is 321.649 EUR. 

 
 
4. Legal framework 
 
4.1. Article 58 of the GDPR: 
 

“1. Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following investigative powers: 
(a) to order the controller and the processor, and, where applicable, the controller's or the 
processor's representative to provide any information it requires for the performance of its 
tasks; […] 
 
2. Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers: 
 
(a) to issue warnings to a controller or processor that intended processing operations are 
likely to infringe provisions of this Regulation; 

 

5 

(b) to issue reprimands to a controller or a processor where processing operations have 
infringed provisions of this Regulation; 

(c)  to  order  the  controller  or  the  processor  to  comply  with  the  data  subject's  requests  to 
exercise his or her rights pursuant to this Regulation; 

(d) to order the controller or processor to bring processing operations into compliance with 
the  provisions  of  this  Regulation,  where  appropriate,  in  a  specified manner  and  within  a 
specified period; […] 

(f) to impose a temporary or definitive limitation including a ban on processing; […] 

(i)  to  impose  an  administrative  fine  pursuant  to  Article  83,  in  addition  to,  or  instead  of 
measures  referred  to  in  this  paragraph,  depending  on  the  circumstances  of  each 
individual case; […]” 

4.2. Article 15 of the GDPR: 
 

“1.  The  data  subject  shall  have  the  right  to  obtain  from  the  controller  confirmation  as  to 
whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, and, where that 
is the case, access to the personal data and the following information: 
 
(a) the purposes of the processing; 
(b) the categories of personal data concerned; 
(c) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will 
be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or international organisations; 
(d) where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, or, if 
not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 
(e)  the  existence  of  the  right  to  request  from  the  controller  rectification  or  erasure  of 
personal data or restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject or 
to object to such processing; 
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 
(g)  where  the  personal  data  are  not  collected  from  the  data  subject,  any  available 
information as to their source; 
(h)  the  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  including  profiling,  referred  to  in  Article 
22(1)  and  (4)  and,  at  least  in  those  cases,  meaningful  information  about  the  logic 
involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing 
for the data subject. […] 
 
3. The controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. For any 
further copies requested by the data subject, the controller may charge a reasonable fee 
based  on  administrative  costs. Where  the  data  subject  makes  the  request  by  electronic 
means,  and  unless  otherwise  requested  by  the  data  subject,  the  information  shall  be 
provided in a commonly used electronic form”. 

 
4.3. Article 12(3) of the GDPR: 
 

“The controller shall provide information on action taken on a request under Articles 15 to 
22 to the data subject without undue delay and in any event within one month of receipt of 
the request. That period may be extended by two further months where necessary, taking 
into  account  the  complexity  and  number  of  the  requests.  The  controller  shall  inform  the 
data  subject  of  any  such  extension  within  one  month  of  receipt  of  the  request,  together 
with the reasons for the delay. […]” 

 
4.4. Article 83 of the GDPR: 
 
“1. Each supervisory authority shall ensure that the imposition of administrative fines pursuant 
to this Article in respect of infringements of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 
shall in each individual case be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. 
 

 

6 

2.  Administrative  fines  shall,  depending  on  the  circumstances  of  each  individual  case,  be 
imposed in addition to, or instead of, measures referred to in points (a) to (h) and (j) of Article 
58(2). When deciding whether to impose an administrative fine and deciding on the amount of 
the administrative fine in each individual case due regard shall be given to the following: 
 
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement taking into account the nature scope or 
purpose of the processing concerned as well as the number of data subjects affected and the 
level of damage suffered by them; 
(b) the intentional or negligent character of the infringement; 
(c)  any  action  taken  by  the  controller  or  processor  to  mitigate  the  damage  suffered  by  data 
subjects; 
(d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor taking into account technical and 
organisational measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25 and 32; 
(e) any relevant previous infringements by the controller or processor; 
(f)  the  degree  of  cooperation  with  the  supervisory  authority,  in  order  to  remedy  the 
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement; 
(g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement; 
(h)  the  manner  in  which  the  infringement  became  known  to  the  supervisory  authority,  in 
particular  whether,  and  if  so  to  what  extent,  the  controller  or  processor  notified  the 
infringement; 
(i)  where  measures  referred  to  in  Article  58(2)  have  previously  been  ordered  against  the 
controller  or  processor  concerned  with  regard  to  the  same  subject-matter,  compliance  with 
those measures; 
(j)  adherence  to  approved  codes  of  conduct  pursuant  to  Article  40  or  approved  certification 
mechanisms pursuant to Article 42; and 
(k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such 
as financial benefits gained, or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, from the infringement. […] 
 
5. Infringements of the following provisions shall, in accordance with paragraph 2, be subject 
to administrative fines up to 20,000,000 EUR, or in the case of an undertaking, up to 4 % of 
the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher: 
(a) the basic principles for processing, including conditions for consent, pursuant to Articles 5, 
6, 7 and 9; 
(b) the data subjects' rights pursuant to Articles 12 to 22; 
(c)  the  transfers  of  personal  data  to  a  recipient  in  a  third  country  or  an  international 
organisation pursuant to Articles 44 to 49; 
(d) any obligations pursuant to Member State law adopted under Chapter IX; 
(e)  non-compliance  with  an  order  or  a  temporary  or  definitive  limitation on  processing  or the 
suspension  of  data  flows  by  the  supervisory  authority  pursuant  to  Article  58(2)  or  failure  to 
provide access in violation of Article 58(1). 
 
6.  Non-compliance  with  an  order  by  the  supervisory  authority  as  referred  to  in  Article  58(2) 
shall,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  2  of  this  Article,  be  subject  to  administrative  fines  up  to 
20,000,000  EUR,  or  in  the  case  of  an  undertaking,  up  to  4  %  of  the  total  worldwide  annual 
turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher. […]” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Views of the Commissioner 
 
5.1.1. Considering all the information above, the Controller failed to comply with the provisions 
of the Article 12(3) since they did not respond to the Complainant’s access request within the 
aforementioned one-month period. 

 

7 

 
5.1.2. I take into account that the Controller, shortly after being informed that the Complainant 
lodged  a  complaint  with  my  Office,  reached  out  to  the  latter  and  completely  fulfilled  his 
request. Nevertheless, I consider that, the Controller understands that the request could have 
been satisfied from the first instance if the appropriate organizational and technical measures 
were  in  place  and  the  staff  was  properly  trained  in  dealing  with  GDPR  requests  in  a  timely 
manner.  
 
 
At  this  point,  I  wish  to  respond  to  the  Controller’s  allegations,  by  referring  to  the  Guidelines 
01/2022 on data subject rights - Right of access (Version 2.0), adopted on 28/03/2023: 
 
 
5.2. Regarding the claimed “manifestly unfounded” nature of the DSARs submitted by the Law 
Firm on behalf of their clients: 
 
5.2.1.  The  Controller  asked  for  the  Commissioner’s  expert  advice  regarding  the  “manifestly 
unfounded” nature of the DSARs submitted by the Law Firm for the following reasons: 
 

I. 

II. 

III. 

the Law Firm has no genuine interest in exercising the right of access on behalf 
of its customers and is instead exploiting its formal legal position to use DSARs 
as means of disrupting the business activity of the Controller; 
the Law Firm is targeting the Controller on behalf of data subjects who are left 
dissatisfied with our services; 
the Law Firm systematically sends identical requests on behalf of different data 
subjects as part of a campaign. 

 
5.2.2.  The  term  “manifestly  unfounded”  can  be  found  in  the  Article  12(5)  of  the  GDPR, 
according  to  which:  “Where  requests  from  a  data  subject  are  manifestly  unfounded  or 
excessive, in particular because of their repetitive character, the controller may either: (a) 
charge  a  reasonable  fee  taking  into  account  the  administrative  costs  of  providing  the 
information  or  communication  or  taking  the  action  requested;  or  (b)  refuse  to  act  on  the 
request.  The  controller  shall  bear  the  burden  of  demonstrating  the  manifestly  unfounded  or 
excessive character of the request”.  
 
5.2.3.  I  wish  to  clarify  that  the  Article  12(5)  refers  to  the  case  when  a  single  data  subject 
submits  a  request  or  several  requests  and  this/these  request(s)  is/are  considered  manifestly 
unfounded. Therefore,  I cannot answer to the Controller’s question regarding the  “manifestly 
unfounded”  nature  of  the  DSARs  submitted  by  the  Law  Firm,  as  a  whole,  since  those 
requests were all submitted on behalf of multiple different data subjects, regardless of the 
fact that the said data subjects were represented by the same law firm. “41. When receiving 
requests for access to personal data, the controller must assess each request individually”, 
as follows by the Guidelines 01/2022. 
 
 
5.3. Regarding the DSAR submitted by the Complainant: 
 
5.3.1. According to the Guidelines 01/2022: 
 

“177. A request for the right of access is manifestly unfounded, if the requirements of 
Art.  15  GDPR  are  clearly  and  obviously  not  met  when  applying  an  objective 
approach […]”. 
 

5.3.2.  The  Complainant  requested  to  be  provided  with  the  personal  data  processed  by  the 
Controller concerning him and answers to questions about the Controller’s privacy practices. It 
appears that, the Complainant’s request was in line with the Article 15 of the GDPR. 
 

 

8 

5.3.3.  Regarding  the  purpose  /  intention  behind  the  submission  of  DSARs  by  the  Law  Firm 
and the refer to the UK’s draft Data Protection and Digital Information Bill, I wish to mention 
that,  regarding  the  Complainant’s  DSAR,  the  Controller  could  not  know  with  certainty  in 
advance whether the Complainant would proceed with the use of the information against the 
former  in  order  to  gain  financial  benefits.  At  least,  at  the  time  of  the  submission  of  the 
Complainant's request, there did not appear to be such intention. Despite the fact that, after 
complying  with  DSARs  submitted  by  the  Law  Firm,  the  Controller  often  receives  claims  for 
reimbursement on behalf of the relevant customer, this does not mean that, in the case of the 
Complainant, the same would be the case. 
 
5.3.4. In any case and according to the Guidelines 01/2022: 
 

“13.  Given  the  broad  aim  of  the  right  of  access,  the  aim  of  the  right  of  access  is  not 
suitable to be analysed as a precondition for the exercise of the right  of access by 
the controller as part of its assessment of access requests. Thus, controllers should not 
assess  “why”  the  data  subject  is  requesting  access,  but  only  “what”  the  data  subject  is 
requesting  […]  and  whether  they  hold  personal  data  relating  to  that  individual  […]. 
Therefore, for example, the controller should not deny access on the grounds or the 
suspicion  that  the  requested  data  could  be  used  by  the  data  subject  to  defend 
themselves  in  court  in  the  event  of  a  dismissal  or  a  commercial  dispute  with  the 
controller. 
 
Example 1: An employer dismissed an individual. One week later, the individual decides to 
collect evidence to file an unfair dismissal lawsuit against this former employer. With that in 
mind,  the  individual  writes  to  the  former  employer  requesting  access  to  all  personal  data 
relating to him or her, as data subject, that the former employer, as controller, processes. 
 
The controller shall not assess the intention of the data subject, and the data subject does 
not need to provide the controller with the reason for the request. Therefore, if the request 
fulfils  all  other  requirements  (see  section  3),  the  controller  needs  to  comply  with  the 
request, unless the request proves to be manifestly unfounded or excessive in accordance 
with  Art.  12  (5)  of  the  GDPR  (see  section  6.3),  which  the  controller  is  required  to 
demonstrate”. 

 
5.3.5. In view of the above, the Controller’s position regarding  the purpose / intention behind 
the  DSARs  submitted  by  the  Law  Firm  or  behind  the  DSAR  submitted  on  behalf  of  the 
Complainant, cannot be considered. 
 
5.3.6. Regarding the claimed higher-than-normal volume of identical DSARs submitted by the 
Law  Firm,  I  wish  to  mention  that  this  should  not  had  affected  the  Controller’s  ability  to 
respond  to  the  Complainant’s  DSAR  in  a timely  manner. The  DSARs  were  all  submitted 
on behalf of different data subjects; the fact that the said data subjects were represented by 
the same law firm does not make any difference. 
 
5.3.7.  Therefore,  I  cannot  take  into  account  the  allegations  regarding  the  high  volume  of 
submitted DSARs by the Law Firm. 
 
5.3.8.  Furthermore,  as  regards  to  the  case  Lees  v  Lloyds  Bank  Plc  EWHC  2249  (Ch)  that 
occurred in the UK and which the Controller is referring to, cannot be taken into consideration. 
The  case  refers  to  a  single  data  subject  who  had  submitted  multiple  DSARs.  The  court 
considered  the  numerous  and  repetitive  DSARs  abusive,  which  is  not  the  case,  in  this 
particular  complaint.  The  current  complaint  refers  to  the  submission  of  a  single  DSAR  on 
behalf  of  a  single  data  subject  (the  Complainant).  Also,  the  court  took  into  account  the 
purpose  behind  the  DSARs.  As  regards  to  this,  the  Guidelines  01/2022  give  clear  guidance 
regarding the purpose of the submission of a DSAR  which I have already mentioned above. 
Therefore, the case Lees v Lloyds Bank Plc EWHC 2249 (Ch) cannot influence the outcome 
of this Decision.  

 

9 

 
 
5.4. Regarding previous similar complaints against the Controller: 
 
5.4.1.  Even  if  I  accepted  the  Controller’s  position  regarding  their  timely  response  to  many 
requests  submitted  by  the  Law  Firm,  it  cannot  be  ignored  that,  my  Office  had  received  two 
more  complaints  which  were  not  submitted  by  the  said  law  firm.  The  complaints  had  been 
lodged to the Austria and Malta SAs and thereafter received by my Office and referred to the 
Controller’s failure to respond to two access requests. 
 
5.4.2. Regarding the first complaint, I was of the view that the mere delay appeared to be a 
minor  infringement  which  had  only  slightly  affected  the  data  subject’s  rights  and  freedoms. 
Therefore,  I  considered  that  the  investigation  proceedings  could  be  concluded  as  no  further 
supervisory  measure  was  necessary  at  that  stage.  I  informed  the  Controller  about  the 
conclusion of the case, on 05/01/2023.  
 
5.4.3.  Regarding  the  second  complaint,  considering  both  the  moderating  and  aggravating 
factors,  I  decided,  on  23/10/23,  to  issue  a  reprimand  to  the  Controller  to  ensure  that  in  the 
future  they  handle  the  data  subject  rights  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Article 
12(3). I also mentioned that, in case of a similar incident, that would be handled more strictly 
and  the  present  complaint  would  be  taken  into  consideration  on  taking  any  supervisory 
measures. 
 
 
6. Conclusion 
 
6.1.  Having  regard  to  all  the  above  information,  and  based  on  the  powers  vested  in  me  by 
Articles 58 and 83 of the GDPR, I conclude that there is an infringement by Brivio Limited, of 
Article 12(3) of the GDPR, for the reasons mentioned above. 
 
6.2.  Moreover,  following  an  infringement  of  Article  12(3),  as  explained  above,  under  the 
provisions  of  Article  83  of  the  GDPR,  I  take  into  account  the  following  mitigating  (1-3)  and 
aggravating (4-7) factors: 
 

1.  The  Controller  fulfilled  the  Complainant’s  DSAR  shortly  after  being  informed 

that a complaint was lodged with my Office. 
 

2.  The  measures  taken  by  the  Controller  after  the  incident  to  ensure  that  staff 
proper  fulfils  their  professional  duties  and  supervise  the  correspondence 
management process. 

 

3.  The Controller’s cooperation with the supervisory authority. 

 

4.  The Complainant’s DSAR was not satisfied within the legal timeframe. 

 

5.  The  lack  of  appropriate  measures  for  dealing  with  data  subject  requests  to 

exercise their rights, in a timely manner. 
 

6.  The  Controller  only  became  aware  of  the  DSAR  after  being  notified  of  the 

complaint by my Office. 
 

7.  The two relevant previous infringements by the Controller, of the GDPR. 

 
6.3. In view of the above and on the basis of the powers conferred on me by the provisions of 
subparagraph (i) of paragraph (2) of Article 58 of the GDPR,  I have decided to  impose an 
administrative  fine  of  €2,000  (two  thousand  euro)  pursuant  to  Article  83,  to  Brivio 
Limited for the infringement of Article 12(3) of the GDPR. 

 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 

 

11 

