 

 

 

Mr Juan Fernando López Aguilar 
Chairman 
Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs 
European Parliament 
 
Sent by email only 

 

Dear Mr López Aguilar,  

  Brussels, 22 February 2022 
Ref: OUT2022-0008 

 

Thank  you  very  much  for  your  letter  of  15  November  2021  on  behalf  of  the  Committee  on  Civil 
Liberties,  Justice  and  Home  Affairs  (the  Committee),  in  which  you  inform  about  the  Committee’s 
request for an EDPB opinion on the final draft of the Second Additional Protocol to the Convention on 
Cybercrime on Enhanced Co-operation and Disclosure of Electronic Evidence (the Protocol). 

The EDPB welcomes your request and the opportunity to recall its views for the Committee. The EDPB 
had indeed already called on the European Commission and European Parliament, as well as on EU 
Member  States  and  national  parliaments,  to  ensure  that  the  Protocol  negotiations  receive  careful 
scrutiny in order to guarantee the full consistency of the envisaged Second Additional Protocol with 
the EU acquis, in particular in the field of personal data protection.  

In  this  context,  the  EDPB  had  the  occasion  to  provide  and  publish  its  observations  and 
recommendations during the negotiating process of the Protocol, addressing its points of concern and 
attention  in  relation  to  the  draft  provisions  published  at  the  time,  and  in  particular  in  its  latest 
contribution  (annexed  to  this  letter)  to  the  6th  round  of  consultations  in  May  2021  on  the  draft 
Protocol, which has been since then adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe 
on 17 November 2021.  

In response to your Committee’s request, the EDPB wishes to recall some of the aspects of earlier 
statements  and  in  the  light  of  the  two  Commission’s  Proposals  for  Council  Decisions  authorising 
Member  States  to  sign  and  to  ratify,  in  the  interest  of  the  European  Union,  the  Protocol  (the 
Proposals). The EDPB regrets to note that many of its recommendations to the negotiations on the 
draft of the Protocol, to a great extent, are not reflected in the final version of the text.  

 

 

Additionally, the EDPB wishes to refer to the EDPS Opinion 1/2022 on the above-mentioned Proposals. 
The  EDPB  wishes  to  highlight  and  complement  some  of  the  crucial  points  identified  by  the  EDPS. 
Furthermore, the EDPB encourages the Committee to consider and address the EDPS Opinion and its 
recommendations in its assessment of the Protocol. 

On the effect of the Protocol and the Proposals  

The Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime (hereinafter Cybercrime Convention), as well as any 
of  its  additional  protocols,  are  to  be  considered  as  a  legally  binding  and  enforceable  international 
instrument.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  stresses that,  in  line  with  the  CJEU  case  law,  the  “obligations 
imposed  by  an  international  agreement  cannot  have  the  effect  of  prejudicing  the  constitutional 
principles  of  the  EC  Treaty,  which  include  the  principle  that  all  Community  acts  must  respect 
fundamental rights, that respect constituting a condition of their lawfulness.”1 

The  EDPB  reiterates  that  from  the  perspective  of  the  European  Union  and  its  Member  States  the 
Protocol must be assessed in light of EU law and case law, in particular by considering the provisions 
on appropriate safeguards as referred to in Chapter V of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 (GDPR) and 
Chapter V of Directive (EU) No 2016/680 (Law Enforcement Directive) and their interpretation by the 
Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in light of the EU Charter. 

In this context, the EDPB emphasizes that Article 44 of the GDPR lays down provisions to ensure that 
any transfer of personal data from EU Member States to third countries shall only take place if the 
level of protection guaranteed by the GDPR is not undermined. Where the transfer is conducted by a 
competent authority as defined in Article 2(1) Law Enforcement Directive, the equivalent is specified 
by Article 37 of that Directive. Given that the Protocol could have an effect on the application of these 
provisions of EU  law  in the  context  of transfers, the EDPB reiterates  that  several provisions of the 
Protocol, and in particular those under Chapter II, section 2 related to the direct cooperation with 
providers and entities in other Parties may, given the level of norm and legal effect of the Protocol, 
also have an effect on transfer and disclosure, as per Chapter V GDPR and in particular its Article 48. 
It is therefore essential that the level of protection resulting from the Protocol for the exchange of 
personal data with third countries is essentially equivalent to the level of protection provided by EU 
law.2 

On measures for enhanced cooperation 

The EDPB welcomes the proposals of the Commission for the Member States to make, in the interest 
of the Union, the declaration, notification and communication under Article 7(2)(b), (5)(a) and (e) of 
the  Protocol.  These  proposals  ensure  that  service  providers  in  the  Union  may  be  requested  the 

                                                           
1 CJEU Judgment of 3 September 2008 in joined cases C-402/05 P and C-415/05, Yassin Abdullah Kadi and Al 
Barakaat International Foundation v Council of the European Union and Commission of the European 
Communities, ECLI:EU:C:2008:461, par. 285. 
2 See also EDPS Opinion, paragraph 32. 

 

 

transfer of personal data only on the basis of orders issued, in the requesting third country Party to 
the  Protocol,  by,  or  under  the  supervision  of,  a  prosecutor  or  other  judicial  authority,  or  under 
independent  supervision  and  under  the  control  of  a  competent  authority  within  the  requested 
Member State.3  

The EDPB also notes positively the proposal that Member States make the declaration under Article 
8(4) of the Protocol (on the co-operation between competent authorities to give effect to production 
orders  of  subscriber  information  and  traffic  data),  so  as  to  ensure  that  additional  supporting 
information is required to give effect to orders under this provision.4 

In  order  to  ensure  the  involvement  of  independent  authorities,  the  EDPB  fully  supports  the  EDPS 
recommendation5  for  Member  States  to  designate,  pursuant  to  Article  7(5)(e)  of  the  Protocol,  a 
judicial or other independent authority.  

Certain data contained in the category of subscriber information within the meaning of the Cybercrime 
Convention, may be deemed under EU law as traffic data (e. g. dynamically allocated addresses in 
IPv4) and the access to such data may entail a serious interference with the fundamental rights of the 
data subject. The CJEU has held in its recent case-law6 that, access of national authorities to retained 
traffic data may be justified only by the fight against serious crime, and subject to a prior review carried 
out either by a court or by an independent administrative body. Therefore, the EDPB recommends, in 
line with the EDPS Opinion,7 that Member States, contrary to the proposal of the Commission, reserve 
the right not to apply Article 7 of the Protocol on disclosure of subscriber data by service providers 
directly to competent authorities of another country in relation to certain types of access numbers, 
pursuant to Article 7(9)(b). 

Finally, in relation to measures for enhanced cooperation, the EDPB reiterates the essential nature of 
the dual criminality principle, which aims at providing an additional safeguard to ensure that a State 
cannot rely on the assistance of another to apply a criminal sanction which does not exist in the law 
of another. In this regard, while the EDPB notes the lack of explicit reference to dual criminality in the 
Protocol other than in Article 5(6),the EDPB understands that this permission is to be found where the 
Protocol allows parties to add conditions to or refuse the transfer under their domestic law.8 

On the conditions and safeguards related to the protection of personal data 

While taking note of the further clarifications provided in the Explanatory Report,9 the EDPB regrets 
that the extent to which parties may add further conditions and safeguards to the transfer of personal 
                                                           
3 See also EDPS Opinion, paragraphs 89 and 90. 
4 See also EDPS Opinion, paragraph 96. 
5 EDPS Opinion, paragraphs 91 and 92. 
6 C-511/18 - La Quadrature du Net and Others of 6 October 2020. 
7 EDPS Opinion, paragraphs 93-95. 
8 See also paragraph 69 of the Explanatory Report. 
9 Explanatory Report, Paragraph 230. 

 

 

data and the extent to which they may not be added, if they are considered as generic data protection 
conditions pursuant to Article 14(2)(a), have not been made clearer.10 

In relation to the application of the proportionality principle and in line with its previous contribution 
(page  6),  while  welcoming  the  direct  reference  to  Article  15  of  the  Cybercrime  Convention  in  the 
Protocol,11  the  EDPB  regrets  that  the  application  and  implementation  of  the  principle  of 
proportionality is not explicitly included in the text of Article 13, in order to ensure legal certainty and 
clarity, and to enshrine this principle for any processing of personal data resulting from the application 
of the Protocol.  

The  EDPB  regrets  that  its  proposal  concerning  the  onward  sharing  within  a  party  to  establish  a 
mechanism to inform the transferring party of an envisioned onward sharing and further processing 
has not been implemented.12 

The reference to the Parties’ domestic legal framework in Paragraph 11 of Article 14 of the Protocol, 
read  in  conjunction  with  paragraph  12(a)(i)  of  Article  14,  implies  that  possible  limitations  and 
restrictions to transparency and notice are to be permitted under the domestic legal framework of 
the receiving Party. The EDPB acknowledges, in line with the EDPS Opinion, that paragraph 12(a)(i) of 
Article 14 of the Protocol imposes specific conditions for such laws, as it provides for the “application 
of  proportionate  restrictions  permitted  under  [the  receiving  Party’s]  domestic  legal  framework, 
needed,  at  the  time  of  adjudication,  to  protect  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  others  or  important 
objectives  of  general  public  interest  and  that  give  due  regard  to  the  legitimate  interests  of  the 
individual concerned”. The EDPB wishes to recall in this regard that the domestic legal framework of 
third  country Parties  to the  Cybercrime  Convention  applicable  to  restrictions  on  transparency  and 
notice  may  significantly  diverge  from  the  ones  in  the  Union  or  Member  States’  law,  thus  possibly 
resulting in limitations that may not be considered as compatible with Union or Member States’ law.  

The EDPB also regrets that its recommendations in relation to the exercise of data subject rights have 
not  been  taken  into  account  and  in  particular  that  the  provision  under  paragraph  12(b)  does  not 
ensure that, as a general rule, information to individuals related to access shall be provided free of 
charge. 

While welcoming the obligation under the Protocol that  “[e]ach Party  shall  have  in place effective 
judicial and non-judicial remedies to provide redress for violations of this article” (paragraph 13 of 
Article 14), the EDPB regrets that neither the text of the Protocol nor the explanatory report explicitly 
clarifies  that  such  redresses  are  available  under  the  jurisdiction  of  each  Party  to  the  Cybercrime 
Convention to any concerned data subjects, as per the EDPB recommendation made in its previous 
contribution  (page  12).  Such  application  is  essential  to  ensure  full  compatibility  with  EU  law  and 

                                                           
10 See also in this regard EDPS Opinion, paragraphs 46, 56-60, 75, 80, 81 and 86- 87. 
11 See also paragraph 218 of the Explanatory Report. 
12 See also EDPS Opinion, paragraph 61. 

 

 

appears  all  the  more  important  considering  that  not  all  Parties  to  the  Cybercrime  Convention  fall 
under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. 

The EDPB welcomes the provisions on oversight and recommends (in line with the encouragement in 
the  Explanatory  Report13)  establishing  mechanisms  to  foresee  the  cooperation  and  exchange  of 
information between established public authorities ensuring oversight in each Party, thus allowing for 
a coordinated and consistent supervision of the implementation of the Protocol and contributing to 
the assessment foreseen under its Article 23. In addition, the EDPB would like to emphasise that, in 
agreement with the EDPS Opinion, it considers that an eventual lack of an independent supervisory 
authority in another Party would constitute a systematic and serious breach within the meaning of 
paragraph 15, thus allowing transfers to be suspended to that Party. 

In addition, with regard to the Council decisions, and in line with the EDPS Opinion,14 the proposed 
communication by the Member States to the United States authorities, at the time of signature or 
when  depositing  their  instrument  of  ratification,  acceptance  or  approval,  in  relation  to  the  EU-US 
Umbrella Agreement should be clarified. 

The proposed consideration, in relation to other agreements or arrangements under Article 14(1)(c) 
of the Protocol that could replace the data protection provision of the Protocol (Article 14), should be 
amended in the Council’s decisions, in line with the EDPS Opinion.15 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

                                                           
13 Explanatory Report, paragraph 281. See also EDPS Opinion, paragraph 115. 
14 EDPS Opinion, paragraphs 121-122. 
15 EDPS Opinion, paragraphs 123-128. 

 

