1/46

 File No.: PS/00201/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), dated ***DATE.1,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter,
AEPD). The claim is directed, among others, against EDITORIAL UNIT
INFORMACIÓN GENERAL, S.L.U., with NIF B85157790 (hereinafter, the part
claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party reported that several media outlets published in
their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a rape
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very mediatic The complaining party provided links to the news published in
the websites of the claimed media, the one relating to the claimed party being:

 ***URL.1

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter in which it was still available, including a tweet from the
claimed part.

SECOND: Dated ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, being aware of the
following extremes:

During the investigation actions, publications were found, more than
those initially denounced by the complaining party, where the voice of the complainant could be heard
undistorted victim. Regarding the claimed part, the following were found:
publications:

 ***URL.1
 ***URL.2

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/46

On ***DATE.4, the defendant was notified of a precautionary withdrawal measure
urgent content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that
will be unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this was accessible
content.

On the same day of the aforementioned notification, the AEPD received a letter sent by
this entity informing that, in the first case, the tweet had been deleted, and in the
Second, the video with the victim's statement had been removed from the news.

FOURTH: On May 9, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, classified as
in article 83.5 of the GDPR.

The aforementioned initiation agreement was notified to the claimed party, in accordance with the rules
established in the LPACAP, on May 9, 2022.

FIFTH: With the registration date of May 13, 2022, the party
The defendant requested a copy of the file as well as an extension of the term to present
allegations.
On May 17, 2022, the file was forwarded to the defendant, granting the
At the same time, a new term to present allegations.

SIXTH: The claimed party submitted a brief of allegations on May 31, 2022,
in which, in summary, he stated:

1.- Treatment of data consented to the existence of prior consent of the interested party
for the live broadcast of his statement.

It indicates that "by decision of the aforementioned Court (the Superior Court of Justice of
***COMMUNITY.1), the statement of the Interested Party was broadcast live by
Internet -specifically, through the YouTube platform, accessible without any type of
limitation for the general public-, without implementing any type of measure to
distort or alter your voice or that of any other participant in it. to major
abundance, the XXXX authorized the media so that, using the
same signal through which the intervention was being broadcast live
of the Interested Party -YouTube- also spread it through their own channels (...) Everything
this so that the media could follow said statement and
fulfill its work of informing the public.”

It goes on to indicate that "XXXX informed the parties to the process of its willingness to
proceed to said retransmission and requested your consent to that effect. In this
sense, the XXXX obtained the consent of the interested parties through the
respective procedural representations, being requested by the Interested Party, as
only condition, that his name and surnames not be disclosed - therefore, without requiring
that measures be adopted regarding her voice, such as its distortion.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/46

In this way, the Interested Party was aware of the intention of XXXX and authorized
previously the retransmission in real time of your statement, consenting to that
way the processing of your personal data, with the sole limitation that it is not
make their first and last names public, as they did.”

For this reason, it considers that it has not breached the principle of data minimization, all
time that the weighting of the rights and freedoms affected by the treatment "already
had been carried out by the court, which had even sought the
consent of the parties to determine the scope of said weighting.”

It ends by indicating that the "processing was legitimized both by the
consent of the Interested Party as for the legitimate interest, consisting of the
exercise of freedom of information by UNIDAD EDITORIAL, having
been the same recognized by the XXXX by expressly authorizing, in accordance with article
232.1 of the LOPJ, the dissemination of images related to the hearing held. not for that reason
it could be considered that the diffusion of the voice of the Interested Party without distorting could
suppose an infringement of the personal data protection regulations, by
be covered by article 6.1 of the GDPR.”

2.- Live broadcast of the victim's statement by the Court
 ***COMMUNITY.1
Superior of Justice of
 . Legitimate confidence in the performance of the
 
 
 
 
jurisdictional bodies.

It indicates that "he acted with legitimate confidence that the authorization he had
received by the said Court to retransmit and disseminate the declaration of
the Interested Party, without any additional condition or requirement to those already mentioned,
protected him to publish such a statement, and therefore that the processing of data
personal information that said publication entailed, under the same conditions in which
it had been broadcast by XXXX, it was fully in accordance with the law.”

It considers that "if sanctioned for an alleged violation of the regulations of
protection of personal data as a result of having carried out a
treatment that was considered lawful by the XXXX would be violating the principle
of legitimate trust of EDITORIAL UNIT, when considering the AEPD contrary to
Right what a Court of Justice previously understood protected by the
aforementioned regulations. In other words, respectfully understand this part that
would be disproportionate and would violate the aforementioned principle to require it to go further
of what has been considered lawful and legitimate by a court, and
penalize him for not having done so."

To this end, it refers to the Ruling of the Supreme Court of February 22,
2016 (rec. 4048/2013) regarding the principle of legitimate expectations, for later
state that in this matter the requirements set forth for
determine the existence of a legitimate expectation.

3.- Request that a probationary period be opened consisting of:

- Request "Google Ireland Limited, as the owner of the YouTube platform, so that
Report on whether the statement of the Interested Party was broadcast live through
said platform, without any kind of limitation for the general public”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/46

- Request "the Superior Court of Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1, to report if
The parties to the process were informed of the fact that they were going to proceed to the
live broadcast of said statement and the statements of those to the
regard."

SEVENTH: On June 9, 2022, it was agreed to open a practice phase of
proof. It was also agreed to include in the file, for evidence purposes, the
claim that gave rise to the disciplinary procedure and its attached documentation;
the documents obtained and generated during the phase of admission to processing of the
claim, the report of previous investigation actions and the allegations to the
initiation agreement of PS/00201/2022 presented by the claimed party.

The following test procedures were carried out:

to. Before Google Ireland Limited:

1. On June 10, 2022, he wrote to Google Spain, S.L. to send
report on:

- If ***DATE.1 was broadcast live, in real time, the judicial hearing of the
victim of (...) of ***LOCATION.1 that was taking place in the
Sixth Section of the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2, through the
YouTube channel of the Superior Court of Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1.

- If ***DATE.1 was disseminated in the open, without any type of limitation for the
general public, the court hearing of the victim of (...) of ***LOCATION.1 that
was taking place in the Sixth Section of the Provincial Court of
***LOCATION.2, through the YouTube channel of the Superior Court of
Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1.

2. On June 14, 2022, Google Spain, S.L. sent a letter stating that the
The request must be addressed to Google Ireland Limited, although it can be sent by
electronic headquarters to Google Spain to send it to this entity.

It also requested that the URL of the Court's YouTube channel be identified.
Superior Court of Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1 as well as what specific procedure
court is that of (...) of ***LOCATION.1 followed before the Sixth Section of the
Provincial Court of *** LOCATION.2.
  
3. On June 21, 2022, he wrote to Google Ireland Limited, through
Google Spain, S.L., to send a report on the aforementioned aspects,
indicating that (i) the URL of the YouTube channel of the Superior Court of
Justice since it is not known what it is and (ii) that the judicial hearing of the victim of (...) of
*** LOCATION.1 that took place in the Sixth Section of the Provincial Court
of ***LOCATION.2 is the summary procedure ***PROCEDURE.1.

4. On June 30, 2022, Google Ireland Limited sent a letter stating that
“without a URL that accurately identifies the YouTube channel owned by you
operated by the Superior Court of Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1, and an identification

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/46

information about the video that is the object of your request, we cannot inform or certify any
detail related to its alleged dissemination.”

 ***COMMUNITY.1
b. Before the Superior Court of Justice of
 
 :

 

1. On June 16, 2022, a letter was addressed to the Superior Court of Justice of
*** COMMUNITY.1 to submit a report, in relation to the judicial hearing that was
was taking place in the Sixth Section of the Provincial Court of
***LOCATION.2 (summary procedure no. ***PROCEDURE.1), on:

- If he informed the complainant of the process that his statement before the court was going to
be broadcast live and openly through the Court's YouTube channel
Superior Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1.

- Provide, where appropriate, if any, the statements of the victim in relation to

for said purpose.

2. On September 13, 2022, the Superior Court of Justice of ***COMUNIDAD.1
(hereinafter, XXXX) sent a letter in which it reported the following:

“As stated by the person in charge of the Communications Office, the
the victim of the identification of his image by the media;
his identity was prevented from being known and any eye contact was prevented
protecting the victim with a screen during the trial.

The media coverage was carried out in accordance with the Statute of the Victim and with
the Communication Protocol of the General Council of the Judiciary to guarantee
the right to information, offering an institutional signal for the media without
In no case could the image of the victim be captured.

The institutional signal was offered under the usual conditions, serving for the
access to the view and to facilitate the construction by the media of the stories
informative.

As the report from the Communication Office points out, in this case, moreover,
none of the parties requested the president of the trial court to adopt
any advertising restrictions in addition to those already adopted or any other measure regarding
of the victim.

Regarding the specific questions that are formulated in the letter of the Aepd directed
to the Superior Court of Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1 (XXXX):

1. “Report on whether the complainant was informed of the process that her statement
before the court was to be broadcast live and openly through the YouTube channel
Tube of the Superior Court of Justice of ***COMMUNITY.1”:

The TSJ of ***COMUNIDAD.1 does not have a You Tube channel.
The Communication Office did not offer the media the institutional signal to
that the trial be broadcast but so that, in substitution of the presence within
the Chamber, could have access to the development of the view.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/46

Therefore, XXXX could not inform the complainant about the diffusion to which

the question refers.

2- "Provide, where appropriate, if any, the statements of the victim in

relation to said purpose”

As explained in the answer to the previous question, there is no record of

XXXX manifestations of the victim in this regard.”

Attached to said written report of the Communications Office of XXXX, dated 28
July 2022, which states:

"- Known at the time the indication, the Office transferred to the Court the
unquestionable media interest of the trial.

- The possibilities of coverage available for
guarantee the right to information.

- The Court forwarded to the Communications Office the conditions for declaration of
the victim (protected by a screen, avoiding any visual contact with the
defendants), guaranteeing the Communication Office that in the advertising of the signal
institution, in no case would any image be offered, while, as there had been
been customary and in compliance with the obligations also included in the aforementioned
Communication Protocol, its identity would not be offered.

- From the beginning of the hearing, in which none of the parties proposed to the Court
no measure greater than the one previously referred to with respect to the victim, offered
institutional signal to the media.

- The institutional signal was offered under the usual conditions. The view could not
broadcast, served as access to view, guaranteeing the right to information.
That is, for the construction of informative stories.

The procedure regarding the trial of interest for this report was identical to that
has been using, in which, in accordance with the provisions agreed by the
courts, full, partial or none of a public hearing is offered, guaranteeing
that no image or identity of the victims is offered and understanding that the media
communication are aware of the provisions contained in the Victim Statute, in which
written are directly questioned, to contribute, without diminishing the right of
information, to their protection. The Communication Office maintains,
accordance with the provisions of each Court, which in the case at hand
expressly protected the victim from the identification of his image by the
media and to which none of the parties - reviewed the recording by the
president of the same - requested no other measure.”

EIGHTH: On October 3, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize UNIDAD EDITORIAL INFORMACIÓN GENERAL, S.L.U., with NIF
B85157790, for a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR, with a fine of €50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/46

As well as that by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
confirm the following provisional measures imposed on UNIDAD EDITORIAL
GENERAL INFORMATION, S.L.U.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

NINTH: With the registration date of October 11, 2022, the party
The defendant requested an extension of the term to present allegations.

On October 13, 2022, the defendant was notified of the granting of a new term
to present claims.

TENTH: The claimed party submitted a pleadings brief on October 24,
2022, in which, in summary, he stated the following:

1.- Absence of restrictions for the diffusion of the voice of the interested party. Performance
in accordance with the provisions of the Communication Protocol of the General Council of the
Power of attorney.

The defendant states that "generally and by constitutional mandate, in
Spain legal proceedings are public, which includes the possibility of
that the media have access to them, with the purpose that they
can make use of their fundamental right to freedom of information and give
fulfillment of its mission of constituting vehicles for the formation of opinion
public.” For this purpose, it refers to article 232 of Organic Law 6/1985, of July 1,
of the Judiciary, article 120.1 of the Spanish Constitution, article 6 of the
Agreement of September 15, 2005 of the Plenary of the General Council of Power
Court (hereinafter, CGPJ) approving Regulation 1/2005, of the
accessory aspects of judicial proceedings, and article 680 of the Royal Decree
of September 14, 1882 by which the Criminal Procedure Law is approved
(hereinafter, LECr)

It makes special mention of the Justice Communication Protocol, approved in the
year 2020 by the CGPJ, which declares that "according to constitutional doctrine, the rule is
free access of the audiovisual media to the courtrooms. In cases where
that, according to the exceptions provided for in the law, the right to
information from these media, the Communication Offices will request the resolution
motivated by that agreement and will pass it on to journalists.”

Subsequently, the defendant indicates that the restrictions on the aforementioned principle
are regulated in articles 681 and 682 of the LECr as well as in the
Articles 22 and 25 of Law 4/2015, of April 27, on the Statute of the victim of crime.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/46

The defendant refers that, in the case at hand, the Court "carried out
an assessment of the interests at stake to determine the need to establish
limitations to the publicity of the declaration of the interested party, considering sufficient
the protection of the identification of the victim's image by the media
communication through the installation of a screen that prevented the capture of
such image and without any of the parties requesting the adoption of any
additional advertising restriction”.

Regarding the reference made by XXXX and its Communication Office regarding
that the institutional signal was offered to the media not for the trial to be
retransmitted, but so that they could have access to the development of the view to
guarantee the right to information, the defendant points out that in no
moment such limitation was communicated to him. Adding, then, that, for the
On the contrary, "it did rely on the decision of the Court to assess said conditions,
that at no time did it refer, because it was not so requested by the
parts, to the need for distortion of the victim's voice, adapting other
measures, which the XXXX considered sufficient, aimed at preserving their privacy and
that your identity is not accessible by third parties, as well as with what is established in
the Protocol, which expressly refers to the relevance of the audiovisual support as
element that contributes to significantly enrich the content of the message that is
leads to the formation of a free public opinion.”

Based on the foregoing, the defendant points out that it fails to "understand the reason
by which the AEPD considers that its action has constituted an infringement
of the GDPR, since ***PERIÓDICO.1 adjusted its procedure to the restrictions of
publicity imposed by the XXXX and the limits of the right to freedom of
information, as well as the provisions contained in the regulations adopted by the
CGPJ for the development of freedom of information.”

It then adds that the published information brought together all the factors
established to carry out the balance between the right to freedom of
information and the right to the protection of personal data: (i) veracity, (ii)
proportionality, defined as “that expressions are not used unequivocally
insulting or vexatious" or "pejorative terms, and (iii) public relevance of the facts,
because it referred to a highly relevant criminal proceeding and affected a person
private but linked to a very notorious case.

He criticizes that the resolution proposal considers that the treatment it carries out is
different from that carried out by the court because it is characterized by the means of
communication due to its durability over time, its amplifying effect and because
involves making information available to a large number of people. AND
criticizes it because "those characteristics are what give the media
of their essential importance in a democratic society and allow them to fulfill their
constitutional mission of being a vehicle for the formation of public opinion.”

Nor does it understand that the balancing of conflicting interests carried out by the
court cannot replace the one that must be carried out by the means of
communication (i) by virtue of a constitutional principle, (ii) in accordance with the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/46

established in the legal system and in the Protocol and (iii) in the exercise of a
fundamental right."

It also indicates that "this party wonders why, if the AEPD
considers that such a procedure gives rise to unlawful processing of personal data, does not give
transfer of such circumstances to the CGPJ, as the competent body to ensure the
compliance with the regulations on the protection of personal data by the
judicial bodies.”

In this regard, it criticizes that the proposed resolution "limits itself to indicating that this
weighting carried out must not be valued by it (by the AEPD),
given that the treatment is different from that analyzed in this file, indicating
However, in both cases it is a question of carrying out a weighting of the
fundamental rights in conflict and that, in any case, the action of the body
jurisdiction and the communication of data to my principal, as a consequence of the
fact of facilitating the signal of the act of sight, is subjected to a rigorous
Protocol, adopted by the CGPJ, which is precisely the control authority in
matter of protection of personal data of the body that gave the signal.”

He criticizes the resolution proposal when its Foundation of Law V indicates what
following: "it must be considered that the treatment carried out by the party
claimed within the framework of freedom of information has been excessive, as there is no
informative public interest prevailing in the diffusion of the voice of the victim - without
provide any added value to the information by keeping the real voice of the victim (without
distort, for example) -, under whose pretext it seems that those
data; voice that, added to the fact that it is a very mediatic case, makes
clearly identifiable to the victim.” And he criticizes it because:

- "The proportionality in this treatment has already been analyzed and assessed by the body
jurisdictional".

- "The addition of images to the written news cannot be qualified in any case
excessive or lacking in added value, given that it has expressly indicated the High
Court that said information "significantly enriches the content of the message that
It is aimed at the formation of a free public opinion”.

- "There is no record (...) that the victim was identified as a consequence of
from the fact that his voice was not distorted.”

Finally, it also criticizes the resolution proposal when its "Foundation of
Law II" states that "in the case examined, the claimed party has withdrawn
immediately from his digital diary the recording of the hearing in which the word was disseminated
of the victim at the request of the AEPD, leaving the written notice of such
statement, so the information is still available and is still
supplying with all its breadth. This shows that to supply
This specific information was not necessary, under the terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR,
disseminate the voice of the victim.", since it has only complied with a
Agency's agreement to adopt a precautionary measure, which cannot be
considered as an acknowledgment that the information was considered excessive.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/46

 

2.- No concurrence of guilt. Confidence in the performance of the
exemption from liability.

 XXXX
   as
 
 
 

The defendant party points out that the requirement of guilt in the procedure
administrative sanction is regulated in article 28.1 of Law 40/2015, of 1
October, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (hereinafter, RJSP), which
It is also collected by various sentences.

It goes on to indicate that the actions of the judicial body generated “the conviction
of the legality of its action, by reasonably presuming that the action of XXXX
was adjusted to Law and was based on a consideration of the rights and freedoms
in conflict that made further assessment unnecessary.”

For this reason, it considers that "even though the AEPD has ruled out concurrence in
this case of the application of the principle of legitimate expectations, which would exonerate
guilt", there is "an error of law or prohibition in the conduct of my
principal that must exonerate the concurrence of responsibility”, supporting his
claim in the Judgment of the National Court of April 27, 2006 (appeal
526/2004).

3.- Application to the present case of the principle of proportionality and circumstances
concurrent liability modifications.

On the one hand, the defendant considers that the aggravating circumstances appreciated by the
Agency would not apply:

- Regarding the aggravating circumstance of the nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction,
regulated in article 83.2.a) of the RGGPD, indicates the claimed party that does not attend
this circumstance because:

(i) The court had already weighed the interests in

game.

(ii) It is not possible to affirm that the victim has suffered any harm or harm

as a consequence of the diffusion of the act of the oral trial.

- Regarding the aggravating circumstance of intentionality or negligence in the offence, regulated
in article 83.2.b) of the GDPR, the defendant states that "the concurrence of
such circumstances in the conduct of a defendant in a disciplinary proceeding
can never be considered aggravating, but rather a sine qua non condition for
to be able to appreciate the concurrence of responsibility in said defendant.”

Furthermore, it considers that it has not acted negligently, since
"has carried out its activities fully subject to the advertising restrictions
adopted by the XXXX after the weighting carried out by said court."

- Regarding the aggravating circumstance related to the categories of personal data affected by the
infringement, regulated in article 83.2.g) of the GDPR, indicates the claimed party that
is applicable because:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/46

(i) “XXXX himself was aware of both the “undoubted media interest of the
trial" as well as the nature of the crime on which it dealt and adopted, prior
weighting of the interests at stake, the advertising restrictions that it considered
necessary to protect the interested party while guaranteeing the right
fundamental to freedom of information.

(ii) "constitutional jurisprudence does not make any exception to the principle
of publicity of the legal proceedings related to crimes against
sexual integrity; Furthermore, said jurisprudence has indicated that the information on
events of a criminal nature is of general interest and has public relevance.”

On the other hand, the defendant considers that in the present case there is a
number of extenuating circumstances that should be taken into account:

- The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, regulated in article 83.2.a)
of the GDPR, therefore:

(i) The treatment "was framed within the fundamental right to freedom of
information by a written means of communication, complying with all
requirements established by constitutional jurisprudence in relation to the
weighing between said right and the protection of personal data of the
interested, as well as with the advertising restrictions adopted by the XXXX for
guarantee said protection and the guidelines of the Protocol.”

(ii) Only one person was affected by the treatment.

(iii) The publication of the news in question has not caused any damage to the

interested.

- The intentionality or negligence in the infraction, regulated in article 83.2.b) of the
GDPR, because, as previously indicated, the guilty element does not exist.

- The adoption of measures to alleviate the effects of the presumed infringement (article
83.2.c) of the GDPR) and the degree of cooperation with the control authority in order to
remedy the infringement and mitigate its possible adverse effects (article 83.2.f)
of the GDPR), since it immediately responded to "the request sent by the Agency".

4.- Opposition to the confirmation of the proposed provisional measure consisting of

“- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.”

Such opposition is motivated by:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/46

- "the relevance that the Constitutional Court itself gives to the incorporation of
audiovisual information to written information, given that the High Court understands
that it "significantly enriches" the written information, thus contributing to the
formation of a free and informed public opinion”.

- The publications made were made "with full respect of the criteria of
weighting carried out to preserve the privacy and data protection of the
victim".

- "There is no proven evidence of the existence of impairment to the
rights of the interested party."

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1, the claimant filed a claim with the
AEPD denouncing that various media, including the part
claimed, published on their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a
victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the celebration of the
trial in a case that was highly publicized, providing links to the news
published on the websites of the media claimed, being the one related to the part
claimed:

 ***URL.1

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter in which it was still available, including a tweet from the
claimed part.

SECOND: The General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection, in the exercise of its
investigative activities, found publications of the responding party where
could hear the victim's voice without distortion in the following directions:

 ***URL.1
 ***URL.2

THIRD: Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, with the date of
***DATE.3, the defendant was notified of an urgent precautionary measure to withdraw
content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible, in
concrete of:

 ***URL.1
 ***URL.2

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/46

FOURTH: On ***DATE.3, the AEPD received a letter sent by the
claimed party informing that, in the first case, the tweet had been removed, and
in the second, the video with the victim's statement had been removed from the
news.

SIXTH: It is proven in the report of previous actions of investigation of
date January 24, 2022 that it was verified that the tweet had been deleted and that in
the link ***URL.2 had been removed from the video with the victim's statement.

SEVENTH: Work in the file report of the President of the XXXX and the Office of
Communication of XXXX, both dated July 28, 2022. They indicate:

- The conditions of the victim's statement in the trial consisted of protecting the
image of the victim through a screen, avoiding any visual contact with
the accused.

- The institutional signal was offered to the media, in which in no
case, an image of the victim was offered, at the same time that they were not offered the
identity of it.

- None of the procedural parties proposed to the Tribunal any additional measure
referred to the victim.

- The court hearing could not be broadcast, it served as access to the hearing, guaranteeing
the right to information from the media. The institutional signal is
offered to the media for the purpose of substituting their presence within
the Room, being able to have access to the development of the view.

Furthermore, the mentioned report of the President of the XXXX indicates that:

- This court does not have a YouTube channel.

- Therefore, he could not inform the victim that his statement was going to be disseminated in
open and live through his YouTube channel.

- Therefore, there are no statements by the victim in this regard.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/46

regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The claimed party indicates in its pleadings to the initiation agreement that the
data processing that has been carried out is consented to by the prior consent of
the interested party for the live broadcast of their statement. For this purpose, it indicates
that "by decision of the aforementioned Court, the statement of the Interested Party was broadcast
live on the Internet -specifically, through the YouTube platform, accessible without
any type of limitation for the general public-, without implementing any type of
measure to distort or alter your voice or that of any other participant in it.
Furthermore, the XXXX authorized the media so that,
using the same signal through which the
intervention of the Interested Party -YouTube- also spread it through their own
channels (...) All this so that the media could follow said
declaration and comply with its work of informing the public.”

In this regard, it should be noted that, as indicated by the XXXX in its report dated 28
July 2022, this court does not have a YouTube channel.

What XXXX did do was offer the media the signal
institutional, in substitution of the presence within the Room, with the purpose that
could have access to the development of sight to guarantee the right to
information, but in no case, for the trial to be broadcast, despite
that the claimed party indicates in its brief of allegations to the proposal of
resolution, that "at no time was this type of limitation communicated by
part of the XXXX, nor said restriction comes to be configured as a kind of
“usual condition” of access to the audiovisual signal of the trial.”

In other words, contrary to what the defendant asserts, there was no
retransmission without any type of limitation for the general public. As neither
there was authorization from XXXX for the media to broadcast the
Statement of the victim before the court. So neither did the XXXX report
to the parties to the process of their willingness to proceed with the retransmission under the terms
indicated by the claimed party, that is, directly and without any kind of limitation to
the general public through the YouTube platform.

In short, there was no consent from the victim for the dissemination of his statement
with his voice undistorted by the media, so the
treatment carried out by the claimed party cannot be found covered by
Article 6.1.a) of the GDPR, as it states.

II

The claimed party revolves the bulk of the allegations made in its writ of
allegations to the motion for a resolution regarding:

- The general principle of publicity of judicial proceedings and the law
fundamental to the freedom of information of the mass media.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/46

- The limitation to the principle of publicity of legal proceedings that may
make the courts. To this end, in the present case, the body
jurisdiction has carried out a weighting of the interests at stake when it comes to
establish limitations on the publicity of the victim's statement during the
oral trial, among which was not the distortion of the victim's voice.

- The defendant considers that the weighting carried out by the body
jurisdiction is sufficient for the purposes that the media can
publish the victim's statement without distorting her voice.

At no time during this disciplinary proceeding has the
exercise of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information by the
media, nor the importance of these within a Social State and
Democratic of Right to be vehicles of the formation of a free public opinion.
Nor has the general principle of publicity of the
judicial proceedings enshrined in article 120.1 of the Spanish Constitution or
that said principle is limited, in exceptional circumstances, by the organs
jurisdictional.

It is not even about, as has been stated since the agreement to start this
procedure, and will be developed in the Fundamentals of Law XII and XIII of the
this resolution, to give precedence to one fundamental right over another.
But to find a balance between the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information and the Fundamental Right to Personal Data Protection for
achieve the achievement of the first without undermining the second.

And to find such a balance, it is necessary to carry out a weighting between both
Fundamental rights.

The defendant party points out that the weighting carried out by the body
jurisdiction when establishing the limitations on the publicity of the statement
of the victim during the oral trial is sufficient for the purposes of the media
communication can publish such content without distorting the voice of the victim.

And it is at this moment that we must disagree with the reasoning of the party
claimed.

As already indicated in the motion for a resolution, first of all we need to clarify
what is the data processing that is being analyzed in this procedure. TO
For these purposes, the GDPR defines in its article 4.2 the processing of personal data:
“any operation or set of operations carried out on personal data or
sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not, such as
the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation,
suppression or destruction”. (underlining is ours).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/46

It is the diffusion of the voice of the victim that has been carried out by the claimed party that is
object of this procedure, not entering within the scope of this other
Treatments, such as that carried out by the Court.

Once the treatment to be analyzed is delimited, we must identify who is the
responsible for it.

Article 4.7) of the GDPR establishes that it is ""responsible for the treatment" or
"responsible": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of processing; Yeah
the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the aims and means of the
treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by law of the Union or of the States
members;".

As established in the Guidelines 0***PROCEDURE.1 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the concepts of data controller and
mandated in the GDPR, the concept has five main components: “the
natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body”, “determines”,
“alone or together with others”, “the purposes and means” and “of the treatment”.

In addition, the concept of data controller is a broad concept, which deals with
to ensure effective and complete protection for the interested parties. It has determined so
the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For all we will quote the
Judgment of the CJEU in the Google-Spain case of May 13, 2014, C-131/12, the
which considers in a broad sense the person responsible for the treatment to guarantee
“an effective and complete protection of the interested parties”.

It is clear that the claimed party is responsible for the treatment, when deciding on the
purposes and means of processing, as it holds the power to do so by having a
decisive influence on themselves. In this way, the purpose is informative and the
The media encompass decision-making power from the way it is distributed or made available
information available to the public, including its content. the middle of
communication has, in order to fulfill its purpose, once in the
exercise of his journalistic work has collected all the precise information, what
information provided and by what means, in what terms and with what personal data.

Thus, Guidelines 0***PROCEDURE.1 on the concepts of person responsible for
treatment and person in charge in the RGPD specify that "the person in charge of the treatment is
the part that determines why the processing takes place (i.e. “for what purpose” or
"for what") and how this objective will be achieved (i.e. what means will be used
to make it)".

The court carries out a different treatment that is not the object of the
present disciplinary file. The consideration of the rights and freedoms that
it carries out seeks to protect the identity of the victim of a violent crime, without
violate the right to effective judicial protection of the defendants, within the
development of legal proceedings.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/46

It must be insisted that the access to the institutional signal offered by the Court to the
means of communication is to replace their presence within the Chamber for the purposes of
that they can exercise their Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information. Hence
the weighting that the former has carried out for the processing of data in court
(processing other than that carried out subsequently by the communication medium) no
can in no way replace weighting and risk analysis
that prior to publication must be carried out by the claimed party, which are not
we know

And it is that the RGPD has supposed a transcendental change in the way of understanding the
right to the protection of personal data, being one of the novelties
most relevant proactive responsibility, contemplated in article 5.2 of said
Regulation:

"2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility")."

Proactive liability implies that the data controller is
responsible for the data processing that it carries out. You not only have to meet the
principles enshrined in article 5.1, but must be able to prove it.
That responsibility implies the need to make decisions -determination
of the purposes and means of the treatment that is going to be carried out-, as well as to render
accounts for the decisions made.

In this sense, recital 74 of the GDPR provides for the following:

"The responsibility of the data controller must be established for
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In
In particular, the person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures
and must be able to demonstrate the compliance of the processing activities with the
this Regulation, including the effectiveness of the measures. These measures must have
into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing as well as the
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” (underlining is
our).

In those cases in which there is a "treatment chain", that is,
different and subsequent treatments carried out by different managers of the
treatment, each person in charge will be responsible for the decisions that they adopt in their field
regarding your treatment. Not being able to protect himself to exempt himself from
their responsibility neither in the weighting nor in what the person responsible for the
previous treatment, just as you will not be held responsible for the decisions
adopted by the data controller listed below in the
chain.

In this sense, it is worth mentioning the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union
in Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:2018:1039, which rules on a case in
which an e-commerce company inserted the module on its website
social "likes" of the social network Facebook, which implied that they were transmitted to it
personal data of visitors to the trading company's website
email regardless of whether the visitors were members of the aforementioned

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/46

social network or if they clicked on the "like" button on Facebook. In its section 74
establishes that "On the other hand, and without prejudice to a possible civil liability
provided for in national law in this regard, that natural or legal person cannot
be held liable, within the meaning of that provision, for operations
before or after the chain of treatment with respect to which it does not determine
the ends nor the means.

Consequently, any processing operation carried out within the scope of the
claimed (in this case the dissemination of personal data on the occasion of the news)
should be attributed only to the media, regardless of the operations
of treatment, with their corresponding weightings, that have been carried out
previously by other subjects and that, in no case, exempt you from your responsibility.

And we cannot forget that:

- The treatment carried out by the claimed party, unlike that carried out by the
court, is characterized by its durability over time, because once
published the news, it remains on the network, being possible to access its content
(and, in this case, to the voice of the victim) both through newspaper libraries and through
through search engines, as many times as you want and without limitation
temporary.

- Such treatment is also characterized, unlike that carried out by the organ
jurisdictional, due to its amplifying effect: as it is a means of communication that
facilitates information through the Internet, makes knowledge of that information accessible
information exponentially and ubiquitously.

In this sense, the STJUE of August 1, 2022 in case C-184/20 (OT and
Vyriausioji tarnybinés etikos komisija) exposes the amplifying effect of the internet
indicating that "102 On the other hand, it is clear that this treatment leads to those
personal data are freely accessible on the Internet by the public as a whole
general and, as a result, by a potentially unlimited number of people.

The information, including the voice of the victim, has been made available to a large
number of people, allowing access to it through any type of
electronic device, twenty-four hours a day and for an unlimited time. In
Consequently, the risk that the victim runs of being able to be recognized has been
increased exponentially.

- With the diffusion of the victim's voice, the victim is made identifiable, putting her in
a certain risk of being identified by people who did not know their status
victim, a risk that should have been assessed by the media and of which
it's responsible.

It criticizes the claimed party in its pleadings to the proposed resolution
that
“it seems that the fact that the processing of the personal data of the interested party
was carried out by UNIDAD EDITORIAL within the framework of its right
constitutionally recognized freedom of information is a greater reproach
by the Agency, since it declares in the Proposal that said

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/46

Treatment must be differentiated from that carried out by XXXX, as long as it is
characterized by” the traits that we have just pointed out.

The defendant then indicated that "such argumentation seems to obviate that
These characteristics are what give the media their essential
importance in a democratic society and allow them to fulfill their mission
of being a vehicle for the formation of public opinion.”

Once again we have to insist that at no time is it about making the
Fundamental Right to Protection of Personal Data on the Law
Fundamental to the Freedom of Information of the media, but of
find a balance between the two. For which it is necessary to carry out a weighting
between both fundamental rights. Weighting that cannot be the one carried out by the
court because it and the media pursue goals
different and their personal data processing have different characteristics, as
as we have just seen and also acknowledges the claimed party in its writ of
allegations to the resolution proposal when it indicates that the aforementioned
characteristics “are those that give the media their essential
importance".

It also indicates the party claimed in its pleadings to the proposal of
resolution that the published information "gathered all the factors established by the
jurisprudence to carry out the balance between the right to freedom of
information and the right to the protection of personal data, namely: (i) the veracity
of the information; (ii) proportionality, defined as "that expressions are not used
unequivocally insulting or vexatious” or “pejorative terms”; and (iii) the relevance
of the facts, in the sense that they are newsworthy and that it takes into
account, in turn, the matter or object of the same, the public or private condition to which
that pertains and the time elapsed (the “currentness” of the news)”, since the
news to a highly relevant criminal proceeding and affected a private person
but linked to a very notorious case.

Without prejudice to its more detailed examination in the Fundament of Law XIII of
this resolution, it must be remembered that for a matter to be considered
public relevance, it will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting in the
assumption examined the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is
great interest that is not recognized by third parties, so it can mean
a new penalty to the one already suffered. The victim is an anonymous person and must follow
being so, in such a way that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed,
because the victims of crimes are not on the same level of equality as the
people who have committed them, as stated in the V Law Foundation of the
initiation agreement and in the Legal Foundation VII of the resolution proposal.

Among the judgments referred to in the aforementioned legal grounds,
We will highlight the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of its First Civil Chamber,
661/2016, of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014), which in relation to the recruitment and
disclosure in court of the image of a victim of gender violence provided that
"3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/46

July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20). (underlining is ours).

Victims of sexual assaults, such as gang rape, have to face
the challenge of resuming his life once the trial is over, trying to overcome the
physical and psychological sequelae derived from the traumatic experience they have suffered.
In this sense, your environment plays a decisive role. Unfortunately, even today
produce situations in which they are stigmatized despite having been the
victims, sometimes even being forced to change their place of residence.

For this reason, it is essential to treat with the greatest care any personal data that
allows you to reveal your identity, prevent you from being recognized as a victim in your environment,
understood in a broad sense. Here the medium plays a decisive role.
communication, since the analysis of risks for the rights and freedoms that
carried out prior to publication is the last guarantee that the company has.
victim.

In short, the claimed party has not acted with the required diligence, that of
a professional, since the media are responsible for the treatment of
personal data that habitually distorts the voice with the purpose
that the person speaking is not recognized. In the exercise of his responsibility
proactively, they must know and comply with the regulations on the protection of
data, applying, among them, the principle of data minimization enshrined in the
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, which has not been contemplated by the claimed party in the
subject matter of this file.

IV.

The defendant, in its pleadings to the proposed resolution, criticizes
to it when its Foundation of Law V states the following: "it must be considered
that the treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly mediated case, makes the victim clearly identifiable.”

And he criticizes it because:

- "The proportionality in this treatment has already been analyzed and assessed by the body
jurisdictional".

- "The addition of images to the written news cannot be qualified in any case
excessive or lacking in added value, given that it has expressly indicated the High

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/46

Court that said information "significantly enriches the content of the message that
It is aimed at the formation of a free public opinion”.

- "There is no record (...) that the victim was identified as a consequence of
from the fact that his voice was not distorted.”

Since in the previous legal basis we have already indicated that the
weighting carried out by the court is not applicable to data processing
personal information carried out by the media, now we must focus on the
two other aspects indicated by the defendant.

On the one hand, the defendant points out that "the addition of the images to the news
written cannot in any case be classified as excessive or lacking in added value,
given that the High Court has expressly indicated that such information "enriches
notably the content of the message that is directed to the formation of an opinion
free public”.

It is true that the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 56/2004, of June 19, states,
in its Foundation of Law IV, that "it should be noted that the image enriches
notably the content of the message that is directed to the formation of an opinion
free public”. Although, below, the aforementioned court indicates that
“It is evident, however, that the use of these means of capturing and disseminating
Visuals can affect others much more intensely than written reporting.
fundamental rights of third parties and constitutionally legal rights
protected relative to collective interests, with which the right to freedom of
information may conflict, which must be resolved in accordance with the
requirements of the principle of proportionality and weighting”.

Therefore, it is not possible to share the thesis of the defendant regarding the fact that "the
addition of the images to the written news cannot in any case be classified as
excessive or lacking in added value” (emphasis added).

It has already been indicated throughout this proceeding that our courts provide
of prevalence to the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information, although this does not
It is an absolute right, since the courts in the civil field have established limits to the
same in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
Own Image, as we will see in detail in Fundamentals of Law XII,
even when it comes to the dissemination of images.

Among the sentences to which both the initiation agreement and the
proposed resolution in this regard, we will highlight the Judgment of the Court
Constitutional 2*** PROCEDURE.1, of February 24 (recurso de amparo 1369-
2017) that provides, in relation to the image of a person, "that the events
criminals are newsworthy events, even independently of the nature of
private subject of the person affected by the news. However, the limit is in the
identification, direct or indirect, of the victim, since this information is not of interest
public because it lacks relevance to the information that is allowed to be transmitted
(SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of December 3; 232/1993, of
July; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of May 20, and 127/2003, of
June). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of April 27, on the statute of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/46

victim of crime, in force since October 28, 2015, when it warns of the
need "from the public powers [to offer] a response as broad as possible
possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims, not only reparative of the
damage within the framework of criminal proceedings, but also minimizes other effects
traumatic in the moral that his condition can generate, all this independently
of your procedural situation. Therefore, this Statute, in line with the regulations
European Union in the matter and with the demands that our society raises, intends,
starting from the recognition of the dignity of the victims, the defense of their assets
material and moral and, with it, those of the whole of society”. In cases like
those raised in this appeal, this Court must give relevance to the prevalence
of the right to the image of the victim of the crime against information freedoms,
because the graphic information became idle or superfluous because the photograph lacked the
victim of real interest for the transmission of information, in this case the
apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent suicide” (emphasis added).

On the other hand, the claimed party points out that the processing it has carried out is not
excessive because "There is no record, in contrast to what is indicated in the proposed resolution, that the
victim has been identified as a consequence of the fact of not
distorted his voice.", adding that the present procedure has not been
initiated as a consequence of a claim made by the victim, which the latter did not
has addressed any claim to the media, as well as that the
The identity of the victim remains unknown, "it is not possible to discover that
through any type of Internet search, which shows that the risk
warned as potential by the Resolution Proposal has not concurred in this
case."

Regardless of the fact that the motion for a resolution has never indicated
that the victim has been identified as a consequence of not having distorted
her voice, but there was a certain risk that she would be identified, it should be noted that
it is irrelevant that the procedure was not initiated as a result of a
claim of the victim, as well as that the latter has not made any claim
before the media, because the truth is that, even in the absence of
claims, the party claimed has the obligation to respect the principles
relating to the processing of personal data referred to in article 5 of the GDPR,
among which is the principle of data minimization, and being able to
demonstrate it based on the principle of proactive responsibility (art. 5.2 of the GDPR).

It is also irrelevant whether or not someone has identified the victim through his
voice, since there was a certain risk that someone would identify it, which is a
A particularly serious fact is an event such as the one that gives rise to the news. This is the
important is not whether the risk of the victim being recognized has materialized or
no, but if there is a risk that someone who listens to the voice of the victim without
distort, identify it.

V

The claimed party indicates in its brief of allegations to the initiation agreement that "acted
with legitimate confidence that the authorization he had received from the
expressed Court to retransmit and disseminate the statement of the Interested Party, without
any type of additional condition or requirement to those already mentioned, protected him to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/46

publish such statement, and therefore the processing of personal data that said
publication included, under the same conditions in which it had been broadcast by
the XXXX, was fully adjusted to Law."

Adding then that "if penalized for an alleged violation of the
personal data protection regulations as a result of having carried out
a treatment that was considered lawful by the XXXX would be violating the
principle of legitimate trust of UNIDAD EDITORIAL, when considering the AEPD
contrary to Law what a Court of Justice previously understood protected
by said regulations. In other words, respectfully understand this part.
that it would be disproportionate and would go against the aforementioned principle to require him to go further
beyond what has been considered lawful and legitimate by a court, and
penalize him for not having done so."

Regardless of the fact that in Fundamentals of Law III we have already stated that
the treatment carried out by XXXX is different from that carried out by the claimed party and
that in no case was there authorization from the aforementioned court to
retransmit the statement of the victim, nor the consent of the latter, now
we must focus on whether or not the principle of
legitimate trust.

It is in article 3.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector where reference is made to the aforementioned principle, a precept that indicates
that "Public Administrations objectively serve the general interests and
act in accordance with the principles of effectiveness, hierarchy, decentralization,
decentralization and coordination, with full submission to the Constitution, the Law and
to the right.

They must respect the following principles in their actions and relationships:

(…)

e) Good faith, legitimate trust and institutional loyalty.”

The principle of legitimate trust can be understood as the trust of the
citizens in the future performance of the Public Administrations according to their
past performances, considering the expectations they generate, although
always safeguarding the principle of legality, so that principle cannot be
be invoked to save situations contrary to the norm.

This is clear from the Supreme Court Judgment of February 9, 2004 (rec.
4130/2001): "The principle of protection of legitimate trust, related to the
more traditional in our legal system of legal certainty and good faith in
relations between the Administration and individuals, entails, according to the doctrine
of the Court of Justice of the European Community and the jurisprudence of this Chamber, the
that the public authority cannot adopt measures that are contrary to the
hope induced by the reasonable stability in the decisions of the former, and in
function of which individuals have made certain decisions. (…) In
same sense, it should be taken into account that "the principle of protection of the
legitimate trust of the citizen" in the actions of the Administration does not apply to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/46

assumptions of any type of subjective psychological conviction in the individual, but
when said "confidence" is based on signs or external facts produced by the
Administration conclusive enough to induce him to trust the
"appearance of legality" that administrative action through specific acts
reveals (Cf. SSTS November 15, 1999, June 4, 2001 and April 15, 2002,
among other)." (underlining is ours).

While the Supreme Court Judgment of February 1, 1999 (rec.
5475/1995) indicates that "this principle cannot be invoked to create, maintain or
extend, in the field of public law, situations contrary to the law
legal, or when the preceding act results in a contradiction with the purpose or interest
protected by a legal norm that, by its nature, is not capable of covering
discretionary conduct by the Administration that implies the recognition of
some rights and/or obligations that arise from acts of the same. or said
In other words, the invoked doctrine of "proper acts" without the limitation that
just exposed could be introduced into the field of legal relations
public the principle of the autonomy of the will as an ordering method of
matters regulated by norms of an imperative nature, in which the
public interest safeguarded by the principle of legality; principle that would result
violated if an action by the Administration contrary to the
legal system for the mere fact that it has been so decided by the
Administration or because it responds to a precedent thereof.

One thing is the irrevocability of the acts declaring rights outside of
the review channels established in the Law (arts. 109 and 110 LPA of 1958, 102 and 103
of the Law on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and Procedure
Common Administrative Law, Law 30/1992, modified by Law 4/1999), and another respect for the
legitimate trust generated by own action that must necessarily
be projected to the field of discretion or autonomy, not to the aspects
regulated or regulatory requirements against which, in Administrative Law, do not
what was resolved in act or in precedent that was contrary to those may prevail.
Or, said in other terms, it cannot be said that the trust that is
deposited in an act or precedent that is contrary to an imperative norm.” (the underlined
is ours).

In addition, as we have advanced, that hope or confidence generated must be
"legitimate" and be based on previous external acts whose meaning is
undoubtedly contrary to what was subsequently agreed, without it being included in this
principle of legitimate trust a mere psychological conviction of the individual.

We have to mean that the principle of legitimate trust operates in practice between
a specific Public Administration and an individual, within the framework of the legal relationship
existing between them. This means that the action carried out by another Administration
Public outside and different from the acting party does not bind the latter -each one exercises its
own competences-, nor therefore, can generate legitimate confidence to the individual.

The AEPD has not carried out any action that has allowed the claimed party
conclude the suitability of its performance. You cannot provide any pronouncement or
performance of this Agency that led him to think that he could spread the voice of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/46

undistorted victim, simply because there is no action on that
sense.

In greater abundance, it is worth insisting on what has already been expressed previously about the
prevalence of the principle of legality, which prevents the invocation of legitimate expectations for
save situations contrary to the norm, especially when we talk about the powers
regulated by the AEPD regulated in article 58 of the GDPR, such as the power
sanctioning.

Therefore, the requirements set forth in the Supreme Court Judgment are not fulfilled.
of February 22, 2016 (rec. 4048/2013), invoked by the claimed party, to
determine the existence of a legitimate expectation:

1. "that is based on undeniable and external signs", which the defendant understands that
It is the decision of XXXX to broadcast the victim's statement live,
authorize the media to broadcast it, both live and after the fact,
and make available to those videos of the testimonial evidence that took place
during the trial, all without adopting or requiring the alteration or distortion of the voice of the
interveners.

Regardless of whether these undeniable and external signs, as has already been
indicated, they must be from the AEPD and, in this case, in addition, they do not exist, there are
remember that the court carries out a different treatment that is not the object of the
present disciplinary file. Which implies that what the media
communication, in this case the claimed party, do later with the
information derived from the provision of the institutional signal is not
responsibility of the XXXX, as indicated in the Legal Basis III.

2. "that the hopes generated in the administrator must be legitimate", which
the claimed party considers that they are linked to the exercise of their Right
Fundamental to Freedom of Information.

As already indicated throughout the disciplinary procedure and this resolution,
It is not about denying the exercise of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information
nor to give precedence to one fundamental right over another, having to choose which
has more weight in a specific assumption, but rather to find a balance
between both to achieve the achievement of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information without distorting the Fundamental Right to Data Protection of
Personal character.

That is, the freedom of information of the mass media is not questioned.
communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on the
proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both applied, depending on the case, in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/46

In fact, in the case examined, the claimed party has immediately withdrawn
from his digital diary the recording of the hearing in which the voice of the victim was disseminated to
requirement of the AEPD, leaving the written notice of such statement, so
the information continues to be available and continues to be supplied in its full extent.
This shows that in order to provide this specific information it was not
necessary, under the terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR, disseminate the voice of the victim.

The foregoing is criticized by the claimed party in its pleadings to the
motion for a resolution, indicating that all it has done is comply with
an agreement to adopt a precautionary measure from the Agency, which cannot be
considered as an acknowledgment that the information was considered excessive.

In this regard, it should be noted that at no time has it been interpreted that the
compliance with the requirement of the AEPD by the claimed party implies that it
acknowledge that posting the victim's undistorted voice was excessive.
Rather, once the aforementioned voice was distorted in the video on its digital page, the
Information continues to be available and continues to be supplied in full.

3. "that the final conduct of the Administration is contradictory to the acts
above, is surprising and incoherent. The defendant considers that if the
AEPD sanctions him, his performance would be clearly surprising, incoherent and
contradictory to the action of the court, which it considered legitimate and lawful
the retransmission and diffusion of the victim without the need to distort his voice.

Regardless of the fact that we have already indicated that the XXXX has not authorized the
retransmission and diffusion of the voice, it is necessary to insist that the final conduct
contradictory must be from the same body, which does not happen in the present case
since what the claimed party intends is to oppose the actions of the
court with that of the AEPD, not two contradictory actions of the
Agency.

SAW

Indicates the claimed party in its pleadings to the proposed resolution
that, although the Agency has ruled out the concurrence of the principle of
legitimate expectations, in the present case what there is is an absence of the principle of
guilt whenever there is an error of law or prohibition that must exonerate
such responsibility.

The defendant party continues arguing that the legal error of his actions
derives from that of the court, which generated "the conviction of the legality of his
performance, reasonably assuming that XXXX's performance was in line with
Law and was based on a consideration of the rights and freedoms in conflict
which made an additional assessment unnecessary.", supporting his claim in the
Judgment of the National Court of April 27, 2006 (appeal 526/2004):

"In the present case, as rightly indicated in the appealed decision, the
R.S.C.E. only delivered the 2001 LOE, including the names and surnames of the
complainant, to the General Directorate of Livestock of the Ministry of Agriculture because
the latter demanded it as a prerequisite for the official recognition of the latter for the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/46

keeping of canine genealogical books as an organization or association of
breeders of purebred dogs, in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree 558/2001
of May 25, an omission that previously had cost him the denial of such
recognition. Obviously, we are in a case of error of law or of
prohibition, which excludes guilt in the terms set forth above, that is,
that the action or omission must necessarily be willful or culpable at any
degree of negligence. Certainly, a reproach of guilt is necessary, be it
title of fraud or fault, to the offending subject as a premise of his responsibility, but
the error of law excludes such guilt, in line with what was stated in the judgment
(interpretation) of the Constitutional Court 76/1990, which maintains the criterion that if
a Law (in this case the General Tax Law) links the responsibility to a
prior guilty conduct, it is evident that the error of law or the invincible error
may produce the effects of exemption or attenuation that are proper to it in a system
of subjective responsibility, but its lack of express contemplation in the norm does not
constitutes a defect of unconstitutionality. As noted above, the illicit type
of art. 44.4.b) of the LOPD requires that title of guilty imputation to the subject that
He is declared responsible for the conduct in the same collection. and in the present
allegedly prosecuted there is no such fault in the Royal Canine Society of Spain
because this Company, by fulfilling that requirement of a body of the Administration
Public, which is presumed to act in full compliance with the Law and the Law (
Article 103.1 CE), delivered said L.O.E. of 2001 in the belief and confidence that
This was legal, so such conduct cannot be imputed as guilt, to the
constitute a clear case of legal error that cannot be overcome. From there, the
perfect legality of the resolution that is appealed today determining the lack of
responsibility (due to lack of voluntariness) of the R.S.C.E. in the facts object
of the disciplinary file that is being prosecuted in this process.” (the underlined
is ours).

After reading said sentence, it is observed that the budgets of the same and of the
present case are totally different: In the case of the sentence cited there is an error
of law derived from compliance with a requirement made by a
administration under a standard, which is mandatory. In it
present case, the defendant has disseminated the statement in court of a victim
of a sexual crime without distorting the voice, alleging the communication medium that
has done so "reasonably presuming that the performance of XXXX was
adjusted to Law and was based on a consideration of the rights and freedoms in
conflict that made further assessment unnecessary.”

For this reason, we cannot share the thesis that in the present case there is an error of
right because:

- The action of the claimed party does not derive from the obligation to comply with the norm.
any or any administrative requirement.

- As previously indicated in this resolution, the treatment
carried out by the court has a different purpose and characteristics than the
treatment carried out by the media, so the weighting that
that person performs cannot exempt the communication medium from the obligation to perform
both a consideration of the fundamental rights at stake, and an analysis of
risks, which, in the present case, are not known to us.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/46

And we cannot forget that when the media publish
news, act as data controllers and, as such, must be
diligent in complying with data protection regulations,
applying, among others, the principle of data minimization enshrined in article
5.1.c) of the GDPR, not being able to rely on the weighting or on what the
responsible for the previous treatment.

In this regard, it should be remembered that jurisprudence repeatedly considers that
from the culpable element it can be deduced “...that the action or omission, classified as
administratively sanctionable infraction, must be, in any case, attributable to its
author, due to intent or negligence, negligence or inexcusable ignorance” (STS of 16 and 22
April 1991). The same Court pointed out that "it is not enough... for the exculpation
in the face of typically unlawful behavior, the invocation of the absence of
guilt" but it is necessary to prove "that the diligence that was required
by those who claim its non-existence” (STS, January 23, 1998). Assuming
examined, the respondent party has not proved that it used the slightest
diligence.

Connected with the degree of diligence that the data controller is obliged to
to deploy in compliance with the obligations imposed by the regulations of
data protection, you can cite the Judgment of the National Court of 17
October 2007 (rec. 63/2006), which indicates, in relation to entities whose activity
involves continuous processing of customer data, which: "(...) the Court
Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever a
legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with due diligence
callable. And in assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined,
when the activity of the appellant is constant and abundant handling of data from
personal character must be insisted on the rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
legal provisions in this regard.

In the present case, the claimed party has not acted with the required diligence, in
In this case, that of a professional who carries out continuous processing of personal data.
personal, since the media are responsible for data processing
of a personal nature that habitually distort the voice in order to
that the person speaking is not recognized.

VII

It considers the claimed party in its brief of allegations to the proposal of
resolution that the aggravating factors considered by the Agency would not be applicable to the
present case, at the same time that it criticizes the fact that a
series of mitigating factors that, he understands, are present.

Regarding the aggravating circumstances:

- The claimed party considers that the circumstance of nature,
seriousness and duration of the infringement, regulated in article 83.2.a) of the GDPR
because: (i) the court had already weighed the interests

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/46

in Game; (ii) it is not possible to affirm that the victim has suffered any harm or harm
as a consequence of the diffusion of the act of the oral trial.

But we have already indicated throughout the resolution that the weighting
carried out by the court is for a treatment different from that carried out by the
claimed party, with a different purpose and characteristics, so the part
claimed cannot excuse its responsibility in the weighting it has carried out
a person in charge of a previous treatment.

On the other hand, the damage that has been caused to the victim with the publication of his
statement without distorting the voice is the certain risk that someone who hears such
voice, identify it.

Based on the foregoing, the circumstance regulated in article 83.2.a) of the
GDPR as an aggravating circumstance, since the nature of the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR is of such seriousness that it has led to the loss of disposition and control over the
personal data of the voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity, and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

- The defendant considers that the aggravating circumstance of the
intentionality or negligence in the infraction, regulated in article 83.2.b) of the
GDPR, because "the concurrence of such circumstances in the conduct of a
involved in a disciplinary proceeding can never be considered
aggravating factor, but rather a sine qua non condition to be able to appreciate the concurrence of
responsibility in said defendant”.

We cannot share the thesis of the defendant, since the circumstance of the
intentionality or negligence in the offense is regulated as a circumstance to which
when determining the amount of an administrative fine in article 83.2.b) of the
GDPR, rule of direct and immediate application in our legal system.

In this regard, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for Data Protection on
the calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the GDPR, in its version of 12
May 2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "the absence of intention does not
necessarily equates to a decrease in severity. In fact the negligence
serious constitutes an increase in perceived seriousness, and in other cases negligence
could, at best, be considered neutral. On the other hand, in this regard,
It should be clear that even if the infringement is unintentional, it can
considered a serious infringement, depending on the other circumstances of the case of
cars.” (underlining is ours).

In the present case, the claimed party did not ensure a procedure that guaranteed
the protection of the personal data of the victim in such circumstances
sensitive, since we are referring to a woman of XX XXXX victim of a crime
violent and against sexual integrity, putting her at a certain risk of being identified
by people who were unaware of their status as victims, a risk that should have been
valued by the media and for which it is responsible.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/46

That is, the claimed party did not act with the required diligence, that of a
professional, as stated in the previous legal basis, since the
media as responsible for the treatment of multiple data that
know within the exercise of their journalistic work, they must know and comply with the
regulations on data protection, applying, among them, the principle of
minimization of data enshrined in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

Despite the foregoing, the claimed party considers that it has not acted
negligently, since "it has carried out its actions fully subject to the
advertising restrictions adopted by the XXXX after the weighting carried out by
said court."

But we have already indicated repeatedly throughout this resolution that the
weighting carried out by the court is for a previous treatment and
different from that carried out by the media, so it cannot replace the
you have to do this.

- Neither does the defendant consider that in the present case the
aggravating circumstance relating to the categories of personal data affected by the infringement,
regulated in article 83.2.g) of the GDPR, because:

(i) “XXXX himself was aware of both the “undoubted media interest of the
trial" as well as the nature of the crime on which it dealt and adopted, prior
weighting of the interests at stake, the advertising restrictions that it considered
necessary to protect the interested party while guaranteeing the right
fundamental to freedom of information.

(ii) "constitutional jurisprudence does not make any exception to the principle
of publicity of the legal proceedings related to crimes against
sexual integrity; Furthermore, said jurisprudence has indicated that the information on
events of a criminal nature is of general interest and has public relevance.”

It appears that the Respondent is confusing what is involved in the exercise of
Fundamental Right of Freedom of Information with what the aggravating factor entails
cited, which refers to the processing of certain categories of personal data.

As has already been indicated throughout the resolution, at no time has there been any doubt
of the importance that in a Social and Democratic State of Law the exercise
of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information. Now, the media
communication, in the exercise of their informative work, sometimes process data
sensitive personal. And if by violating the data protection regulations
personal data of such a sensitive nature has been affected, it is when this
circumstance, as in the case that is the subject of this disciplinary proceeding.

Hence, both the start-up agreement and the proposed resolution refer to
that this aggravating circumstance is applied due to "The certain possibility of recognizing the victim of a
crime as reported in the news, very serious, violent and against sexual integrity
(multiple violation), supposes a serious damage for the affected, since what happened
it is linked to their sex life.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/46

On the other hand, regarding the mitigating factors:

- The claimed party indicates that the nature, seriousness and
duration of the infringement, regulated in article 83.2.a) of the GDPR, because:

(i) The treatment "was framed within the fundamental right to freedom of
information by a written means of communication, complying with all
requirements established by constitutional jurisprudence in relation to the
weighing between said right and the protection of personal data of the
interested, as well as with the advertising restrictions adopted by the XXXX for
guarantee said protection and the guidelines of the Protocol.”

(ii) Only one person was affected by the treatment.

(iii) The publication of the news in question has not caused any damage to the

interested.

Since in this Foundation of Law we have already referred to both the
consideration of the fundamental rights at stake as well as the harm that
caused the publication of the news in the interested party, since such issues were
raised by the claimed party when criticizing that the
circumstance regulated in article 83.2.a) of the GDPR as an aggravating circumstance, now we
We are going to focus on the allegation that only one person was affected by the
treatment.

It is true that the number of victims is one. But article 83.2.a) of the GDPR
invoked by the claimed party includes more aspects than the number of injured parties
for the infringement: the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation and the
level of damages that have been caused.

As we have already said, in the present case, it is considered that the
nature of the offense is very serious since it entails a loss of
provision and control over your personal voice data to a person who has been
victim of a violent crime and against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said information
there was a certain risk that it could be recognized by third parties.

Such aspects are so important in themselves that, within what is the
circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the GDPR, must have more weight in the graduation
of the offense than the mere fact that the injured party is a person.

- The intentionality or negligence in the infraction, regulated in article 83.2.b) of the
GDPR, because, as previously indicated, the guilty element does not exist.

We have already referred to this aspect both in the previous Foundation of Law
such as when the defendant criticized the application of this circumstance as
aggravating, so we refer to what is stated there.

- The adoption of measures to alleviate the effects of the presumed infringement (article
83.2.c) of the GDPR) and the degree of cooperation with the control authority in order to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/46

remedy the infringement and mitigate its possible adverse effects (article 83.2.f)
of the GDPR), since it immediately responded to "the request sent by the Agency".

The content withdrawal measure did not derive from a spontaneous action of the
claimed party aimed at alleviating, effectively, the damage suffered by the
victim, but rather an urgent and mandatory withdrawal order from the AEPD, so there is no
can be considered in the present case as a mitigation.

For this purpose, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines 04/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines with
according to the RGPD, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation,
which state that "The measures adopted must be evaluated, in particular, in
relation to the element of opportunity, that is, the moment in which they are applied
by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, and its effectiveness. In this sense, it is more
It is likely that measures applied spontaneously before the start of the
investigation of the control authority are known by the person in charge or the
in charge of the treatment that the measures that have been applied after that
moment."

Neither can the degree of cooperation with the AEPD be considered a mitigating factor.
time that the withdrawal orders issued by it are mandatory
in accordance with the provisions of article 69 of the LOPDGDD. The consideration of the
cooperation with the AEPD as mitigation, as claimed by the appellant, not
is linked to any of the cases in which there may be a collaboration or
cooperation or requirement by reason of a legal mandate, when the actions are
due and required by law, as in the case at hand, being indifferent to the
degree of diligence in responding to requests.

To this end, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines of the Working Group of the
Article 29 on the application and setting of administrative fines for the purposes of
Regulation 2016/679, approved on October 3, 2017, which states that
“That said, it would not be appropriate to take into account in addition the cooperation that the
law requires; for example, in any case the entity is required to allow the authority of
control access to the facilities to carry out audits or inspections”.

In the same sense, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for the Protection of
Data on the calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the GDPR, in its
version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "it must be
consider that the ordinary duty of cooperation is obligatory and, therefore, must be
considered neutral (and not a mitigating factor).”

Therefore, we can conclude that "cooperation" cannot be understood as that which
is required or mandatory by law for the person responsible for the
treatment, as in this case.

VIII

The claimed party, in its pleadings to the resolution proposal,
opposes the confirmation of the proposed provisional measure consisting of:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/46

“- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.”

Motivating such opposition in:

- "the relevance that the Constitutional Court itself gives to the incorporation of
audiovisual information to written information, given that the High Court understands
that it "significantly enriches" the written information, thus contributing to the
formation of a free and informed public opinion”.

- The publications made were made "with full respect of the criteria of
weighting carried out to preserve the privacy and data protection of the
victim".

- "There is no proven evidence of the existence of impairment to the
rights of the interested party."

It has already been indicated throughout this proceeding that our courts provide
of prevalence to the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information, although it is not a
absolute right, since the courts in the civil field have established limits to the
same in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
Own Image, as we will see in detail in Fundamentals of Law XII,
even when it comes to the dissemination of images.

Also repeatedly throughout this resolution, and in a manner
detailed in Fundamentals of Law III, we have indicated that the weighting
carried out by the court can not replace in any way the
that the media has to do.

Likewise, in Fundamentals of Law IV and VII of this resolution we have
indicated that the impairment of the rights of the interested party that has taken place is the
certain risk that someone hearing the victim's voice without distortion will identify it,
which supposes the loss of disposition and control over the personal data of the voice to
a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and crime against sexual integrity, and
that when disseminating said personal data there is a certain risk that it can be recognized
by third parties, with the serious damages that this would cause.

For all the foregoing, all the allegations made by the party are dismissed.
claimed both to the initiation agreement and to the resolution proposal.

IX

The voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is personal data
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said GDPR:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/46

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image as well as the voice of a person is personal data, as will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
"any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons",
This question is not controversial."

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as: "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, implies a processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person responsible for the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations for the data controller set forth in the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

X

This procedure begins because the claimed party published, on the websites
website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of
a multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a
case that was very mediatic. The victim's voice could be seen clearly
recount in all crude details the multiple rape suffered. All this constitutes
processing of personal data of the victim.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/46

People have the power of disposal over their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its diffusion, resulting, without a doubt, deserving of
protection of the person whose personal data is disclosed in violation of the law
legal.

Thus, STC 292/2000, of November 30, provides that "the content of the right
Fundamental to data protection consists of a power of disposal and control
on personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which can this third party
collect, and which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposition and
control over personal data, which constitute part of the content of the right
fundamental to data protection are legally specified in the power to
consent to the collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent
storage and treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the
state or an individual. And that right to consent to knowledge and treatment,
computerized or not, of personal data, requires as complements
essential, on the one hand, the ability to know at all times who has
these personal data and to what use you are submitting them, and, on the other hand, the power
oppose such possession and uses”.

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all controllers must respect the principles of
treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR which establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");"

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection can
give in to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it on a case-by-case basis.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
affectation of the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/46

eleventh

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even
when an equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
ordinarily the first is usually endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, after all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, the limits set are exceeded
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of
GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
cases in which the question of legitimate interest may arise, stating that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

twelfth

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the
civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

Thus, we will cite, for all, STC 2***PROCEDURE.1, of February 24 (appeal
amparo 1369-2017) that it has, in relation to the image of a person, and
starting from the incontrovertible fact that makes it identifiable, that "...the question
discussed is reduced to pondering whether the non-consented reproduction of the image of a
anonymous person, that is, someone who is not a public figure, but who acquires
suddenly and involuntarily a role in the newsworthy event, in this case as
victim of the failed attempted murder by his brother and the subsequent suicide
of this, supposed an illegitimate interference in his fundamental right to his own
image (art. 18.1 CE).

[…]

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
regardless of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
This data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to be transmitted (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
December; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/46

response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that his condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. Therefore, the present
Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
raises our society, claims, based on the recognition of the dignity of
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the STS, from its First Civil Chamber, 272/2011, of April 11 (rec.
1747/2008), in which, regarding the data necessary to provide a
information and limits to the public interest states that "b) Trivial information is not
protects (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing unnecessary data in a case of
rape (full name, last name initials, street portal where
the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not respect the reservation, only
seek to satisfy curiosity, produce disturbances or annoyances, and reveal
aspects of personal and private life unnecessarily, allowing neighbors,
close people and relatives full identification of the victim and knowledge
in great detail about an act that seriously violated his dignity (STC
185/2002) or about a disease that has no public interest and affects
direct to the irreducible field of intimacy and that reveals itself to the effect of a pure
joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

Likewise, the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec.
3318/2014), in relation to the capture and dissemination in court of the image of a
victim of gender violence provided that "1.) The interest of the
disputed information or the right of the defendant television station to broadcast
images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since there is no record
no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the applicant's identification
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/46

nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff through his
image and personal data indicated and its direct link to an episode of
gender violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, supposes that the loss of the
anonymity would violate both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the
broadcast of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent that
that some reserved data, belonging to his private life (who went to the Internet
to start a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment
in which any person who watched those news programs and who resided in the
location of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of crimes was added to the moral damage
consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public." (underlining is ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in attention to the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
For example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or name and surname.

XIII

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the claimed party
published, on the websites referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the
judge of a victim of multiple rape, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined by jurisprudence, of endowing
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/46

The reconciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European Union mandates such reconciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronting it
with other rights and freedoms does not allow the same in any case and with all breadth,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually endow it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a woman from (…) who has suffered a multiple rape. In the
published recording, she is heard recounting, with great emotional charge, the aggression
sexuality suffered in all crudeness, narrating (...).

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the victim status of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of crime, as well as the recent Organic Law 10/2022, of 6
of September, of integral guarantee of sexual freedom, foresee a special
need to protect victims of crimes against sexual freedom or
sexual indemnity. In addition, the aforementioned Statute of the victim of crime
it also provides special protection for victims of violent crimes. and in the
case examined both circumstances concur.

In this case, the situation of the victim must be considered (who is not in the
same level of equality as the defendants) and what the diffusion of their voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without constraining the supply of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable to the form, the
medium in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate affectation of the data
personnel and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the obvious informative public interest in the news is not denied,
Given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not a question of
to diminish the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of
make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/46

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, for all, STC 58/2018, of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or those dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of
that their subjective personality rights are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, its maximum level of legitimizing effectiveness, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
granting general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures".

The STJUE (Second Chamber) of February 14, 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs
Buivids, mentions various criteria to ponder between the right to respect
of privacy and the right to freedom of expression, among which are
“the contribution to a debate of general interest, the notoriety of the affected person,
the object of the report, the previous behavior of the interested party, the content, the
form and the repercussions of the publication, the form and the circumstances in which it is
obtained information and its veracity (see, in this regard, the judgment of the ECtHR of
June 27, 2017, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

In such a way that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting, at greater
abundance of what was meant in the previous section, that in the case examined
the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may entail a new penalty
to the already suffered The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, in such a way that
so that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) Judgment 697/2019, of 19
December, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor does it justify, the
affects the fundamental right to one's own image [in this case to the protection of
personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not save the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

It is worth mentioning the breach of point 1 of the Digital Pact for the
protection of persons, signed by the entity involved, which establishes that "The
signatories to the Charter will refrain from identifying in any way the victims of
assaults, acts of violence or sexual content in their information or

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/46

publish information from which, in general, your identity can be inferred
in the case of people of no public relevance. All this without prejudice to the fact that the
non-public persons may be involved in newsworthy events, in which case
the informative coverage will be the necessary one to give adequate fulfillment to the right
information, taking into account the peculiarities of each case".

fourteenth

Every person responsible for the treatment has conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, in terms of what interests us, proactive responsibility,
Article 5.2 of the GDPR, risk assessment and implementation of measures
of adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
In the case we are examining, this one is especially sensitive.

Such obligations do not decline because we are before a data controller
that it is a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
identifiable and can be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very likely risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases
of dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to
that with the diffusion of the voice of the victim she is being sentenced again to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

It is tremendously significant that, in the case examined, the part
claimed immediately has distorted the voice of the victim's statement in
the podcast at the request of the AEPD, without prejudice to which the information follows
being available and continues to be supplied with all its breadth. This puts
manifest that in order to provide this specific information it was not necessary, in the
terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR to disseminate the voice of the victim.

fifteenth

The claimed party has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the
purpose for which they were processed, which constitutes an infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The infringement attributed to the claimed party is typified in article
83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines" provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/46

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

16th

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are effective in each individual case,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

"Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/46

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In an initial assessment, the graduation criteria are considered concurrent
following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/46

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
the personal data of your voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

Intentional or negligent infringement: Although it is considered that there was no
intentionality on the part of the communication medium, it is concluded that it was negligent
by not ensuring a procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data
in such sensitive circumstances, especially when on many occasions
distorts the voice in the news so that the person is not recognized
talking.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

seventeenth

The text of the resolution establishes the offense committed and the
facts that have given rise to the violation of data protection regulations, of
which clearly infers what are the measures to adopt, notwithstanding that the
type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments to implement them
corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who
He fully knows his organization and has to decide, based on the responsibility
proactive and risk-focused, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
 
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE UNIDAD EDITORIAL INFORMACION GENERAL S.L.U., with
NIF B85157790, for a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of 50,000.00 euros (FIFTY THOUSAND euros).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/46

SECOND: Confirm the following provisional measures imposed on UNIDAD
EDITORIAL GENERAL INFORMATION S.L.U.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to EDITORIAL UNIT
GENERAL INFORMATION S.L.U.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
XXXXXXXXXXXX), opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/46

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

