

Bonn/Berlin, September 14, 2018


Press release 10/2018


  5th Symposium on Freedom of Information
Freedom of information law as a motor for participation and transparency in democracy

The 5th BfDI symposium, with its wide-ranging programme, made it clear that freedom of information has long since taken a firm place in the international discourse of administration and science. In various lectures and discussions, renowned lecturers provided information on current topics and questions of freedom of information law. International guest speakers Dr. Ben Worthy from the University of London and Prof. Dr. Pablo Contreras Vasquez from the Chilean Transparency Authority.
Andrea Vosshoff sums it up: The symposium impressively showed the dynamics with which the development of freedom of information law is also progressing outside of Europe. Freedom of information laws certainly raise a number of practical issues when implemented. Overall, however, there was a broad consensus that access to administrative information - despite all the practical challenges for the authorities concerned - is a crucial instrument for participation in democracy. Citizens need a strong supporter and mediator. Therefore I repeat at this point my request to extend my ombudsman function to environmental and consumer information law.
About the symposium
For the fifth time, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) organized a two-day specialist symposium on freedom of information law. The symposium offered more than 100 participants from the Bundestag, the judiciary and jurisprudence, from the highest federal authorities and the group of state commissioners a platform for an inventory and the exchange of experiences.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











