1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00161/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated November 14,
2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed part).
The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

"[…]   FIRST. - That the undersigned is the owner of a property located in the
*** ADDRESS.1, in which he develops his professional activity as a painter, managing
an auto repair shop operating under the trade name of
“*** COMPANY.1”.

SECOND. - That in the adjoining with your property there is a property owned
by D.B.B.B. and Dª C.C.C., identified under number 16 of the same
***ADDRESS 1.

THIRD. - That in the house inhabited by Mr. B.B.B. and Mrs. C.C.C. I know
It is located, at its main entrance, a video surveillance camera that, in addition to
of receiving images of the private plot attached to the house, it also receives images of the road
that serves as access to both your property and that of this party […].

It is worth mentioning in this regard that the camera, in addition to not having authorization
nor be installed by an authorized company, likewise, it lacks any
signage that informs about its existence. […]»

Along with the claim, provide the following documents:

1. Photograph of the camera installed in the property.

2. Capture of an image published in an alleged profile of the claimed person on a network
social do of the image that the camera would capture is observed on a monitor.

SECOND: Prior to admitting this claim for processing, the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection sent the respondent a request
of information on December 11, 2019, which was notified on December 26,
December 2019. In the absence of a response, a new
request for information on February 26, 2020, having been returned by
“surplus (not withdrawn in the office)”.

THIRD: The Director of the Spanish Protection Agency agreed to admit
Process the claim on June 1, 2020.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

FOURTH: On November 3, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the GDPR.

FIFTH: The Initiation Agreement was sent to the claimed party, being returned to this
Agency dated November 17, 2021, with the annotation "Unknown", therefore
that said Initiation Agreement was published on the single Edictal Board dated
December 01, 2020.

In the absence of a response to the requests for information sent to the party
claimed, and the Agreement to Commence this Sanctioning Procedure, dated
February 10, 2021, the collaboration of the Local Police was requested to attend
to the scene of the events and issue a report stating the following:

make up.
Location areas of the different cameras in the building.

- Effective address of the claimed person at the indicated address.
- Existence of the video surveillance system and number of cameras that
-
- Orientation of the installed cameras and their capture area. Of
allow the claimed, it is requested that they be observed and informed about the
images displayed on the monitor.

- Existence of an informative poster adapted to the regulations in force.

In response to this request for collaboration, the Local Police sent this
Agency a report indicating that

“After the visual inspection we can specify that we observe that there is only one
camera outside, located above the gate of what appears to be a garage, without
visible information sign and approximately 15 meters from the public thoroughfare After
interview us with the owner of the camera who turns out to be B.B.B. with DNI ***NIF.1,
date of birth (...), effective address ***ADDRESS.2 and telephone (...), We
communicates that it only has one camera, which is the one we can see outside and
he refuses to show us the images on the monitor. Subsequently, some
photographs showing the camera and the possible focus of the camera when placed
under it."

They provide four photographs showing where the camera is located as well as the
possible angle of vision of it, which would capture the entrance to your property, the part
of the street in front of the property, the houses in front and several more behind them.

SIXTH: After receiving the report from the Local Police, in which a new
address of the claimed party, dated April 30, 2021, this Agency sent to
this one a writing of opening of period of practice of tests, enclosing a copy of the
Initiation Agreement, so that it could formulate the allegations that it considered
relevant.

On May 18, 2021, said letter has been returned to this Agency by the
postal service with the annotation "Surplus (Not picked up at the office)".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

Article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), in section f),
It establishes that, in case of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On November 14, 2019, you have entry in this Claim Agency
against B.B.B. for having installed a video surveillance camera facing the
property of the claimant and to the public thoroughfare, and which also does not have a sign
informative of the existence of that system.

SECOND: Photographs of the location of the camera are provided.

THIRD: The transfer of the claim that was made to the claimed party was
duly notified on December 26, 2019, without being recorded in this
Agency no response.

FOURTH: In the absence of a response to the requests for information sent to the
claimed party, and the Agreement to Commence this Sanctioning Procedure,
requested collaboration from the Local Police, which sent this Agency a report
indicating that you have a camera installed outside, located above a gate
of what appears to be a garage, without an information sign, providing several photographs, in
one of which shows the possible angle of vision of the same, which would capture the
entrance to your property, the part of the street in front of the property, the houses of
in front and several more behind them.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The physical image of a person under article 4.1 of the RGPD is personal data
and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR
defines the concept of “treatment” of personal data.

Article 22 of the LOPDGDD establishes the specificities of data processing
for video surveillance purposes, indicating the following:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of persons and goods, as well as their
installations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that

is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or
strategic installations or infrastructures linked to transport, without
In no case may it involve capturing images of the interior of a home
private.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that threaten the integrity of persons, property or facilities. In that
case, the images must be made available to the competent authority in
within a maximum period of seventy-two hours from the date of knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

The blocking obligation provided for in

article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
excluded from its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images
that they only capture the interior of their own home.

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a security entity
private that had been contracted for the surveillance of a home and had access
to the images.

6. The processing of personal data from the images and
sounds obtained through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Armed Forces
and Security Bodies and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in
penitentiary centers and for the control, regulation, vigilance and discipline of the
traffic, will be governed by the legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680,
when the treatment is for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

prosecution of criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including
protection and prevention against threats to public safety. Outside
In these cases, said treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and
additionally by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of

Law 5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through information systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this law
organic.”

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a
video surveillance system, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with
the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space where the security system is installed.
video surveillance, since the processing of images in public places can only be
carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the Forces and Corps of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in the

articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. No this
allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors
with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

In summary and to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection offers through its website [https://www.aepd.es] access to
the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”), as well as the Guide
on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes, as well as the Guide
for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the section “Guides
and tools”).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

IV

In the present case, the claim was filed because the respondent has
installed a video surveillance camera that could be capturing images of the
adjoining property of the claimant and the public road, and does not have
Informative posters of the existence of said video surveillance system.

As proof of these manifestations, the evidence indicated in the
“Facts” section of this agreement.

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2.b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD
-article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of directing a warning, in relation to what
indicated in Recital 148: "In the event of a minor infraction, or if the fine
likely to be imposed would constitute a disproportionate burden on a
natural person, instead of sanctioning by means of a fine, a
warning. However, special attention must be paid to the nature,
gravity and duration of the infringement, its intentional nature, the measures taken
to mitigate the damages and losses suffered, to the degree of responsibility or to any
pertinent previous infraction, to the way in which the control authority has had
knowledge of the infraction, compliance with measures ordered against the
responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of conduct and any other
aggravating or mitigating circumstance.

v

In accordance with the evidence that is available and that has not been
distorted in the sanctioning procedure, the claimed party has installed a
video surveillance camera that captures images of the adjoining property of the part
claimant and the public road, so it is considered that these facts violate the
established in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, which implies the commission of infractions
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

"Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;
[…].”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

"According to the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law.
(…)»

SAW

In the present case, it is considered that the appropriate sanction to impose is directing
a warning, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in
in relation to what is stated in Considering 148, cited above.

In addition, the following elements have been taken into account, in particular.

-

-

that it is an individual whose main activity is not linked to
the processing of personal data.

that there is no recidivism, because the commission is not recorded, in the term of
one year, of more than one infraction of the same nature.

7th

However, as already indicated in the initial agreement and in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to which each authority of
control may "order the person responsible or in charge of processing that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a certain manner and within a specified period […].”
The respondent is required to take the following measures:

- provide the images that are observed with the device in question, indicating
in a location plan the parts that correspond to your property
particular.

- Prove that you proceeded to remove the camera from the current location, or to

reorientation of it towards its particular area.

- certifies having proceeded to place the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered therein (you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the
responsible and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said
precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently visible place, both in
open and closed spaces.

- certifies that it keeps the information to which it refers available to those affected.

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS a warning to B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction
of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: REQUIRE B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, so that within a month
From the notification of this resolution, certify:

-

-

-

-

provide the images that are observed with the device in question,
indicating on a location map the parts that correspond to its
private property.
certifies having proceeded to withdraw the camera from the current place, or
to the reorientation of it towards its particular area.
certifies having proceeded to the placement of the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered in the same
(must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity
of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in
said precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces.

certifies that it keeps the information available to those affected
referred to in the aforementioned RGPD.

THIRD
 

 : NOTIFY this resolution B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-131120

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

