 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian data protection supervisory 
authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

Adopted on 9 July 2019 

 

 

 

 

adopted 

Contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 5 

2.1 

2.2 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 5 

Analysis of the draft decision (composed of the explanatory notes and the ordinance) ....... 6 

2.2.1 

INDEPENDENCE ................................................................................................................ 6 

2.2.2 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................... 8 

2.2.3 

EXPERTISE ........................................................................................................................ 9 

2.2.4 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES.............................................................10 

2.2.5 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINTS HANDLING ......................................................................10 

2.2.6 

COMMUNICATION WITH THE COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY .......................11 

2.2.7 

REVIEW MECHANISMS...................................................................................................12 

2.2.8 

LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................12 

Conclusions / Recommendations .................................................................................................13 

Final Remarks ................................................................................................................................15 

 

adopted 

 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to article 63, article 64 (1)(c), (3) - (8) and article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 

Having  regard  to  article  10  and  22  of  its  Rules  of  Procedure  of  25  May  2018,  as  amended  on  23 
November 2018 

 

Whereas: 

(1)  The  main  role  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (hereinafter  the  Board)  is  to  ensure  the 
consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  when  a  supervisory  authority  (SA)  intends  to  approve  the 
requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting 
competent supervisory authorities to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies 
based  on  the  Board’s    “Guidelines  1/2019  on  Codes  of  Conduct  and  Monitoring  bodies  under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’ accreditation section (section 12); secondly,  to provide  written guidance explaining the 
accreditation requirements; and finally by requesting them to adopt these  requirements in line with 
this opinion so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or  bodies),  must  be  identified  as  part  of  the  code  and  accredited  by  the  competent  supervisory 
authority as being capable of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the  term 
‘accreditation’.  However,  article  41  (2)  of  the  GDPR  outlines  general  requirements  for  the 
accreditation of the monitoring body. There are a number of requirements which should be met in 

3 

adopted 

 

order to satisfy the competent supervisory authority to accredit a monitoring body. Code owners are 
required to explain and demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements 
set out in article 41 (2) to obtain accreditation. 

 (4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies 
that may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes 
of conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context 
of the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though 
the accreditation of a monitoring body applies only for a specific code, a monitoring body may be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6)  The opinion  of the  Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with 
article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the 
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision 
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of 
the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The  Austrian  Supervisory  Authority  (AT  SA)  has  submitted  its  draft  decision  containing  the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board via the IMI system 
requesting an opinion from the Board pursuant to article 64 (1)(c) for a consistent approach at Union 
level. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 9th of April 2019.  

 

The draft accreditation requirements of code monitoring bodies were provided by the AT SA in an 
English version although they were originally drafted in German. The Board hereby gives its opinion 
on the English version of the draft accreditation requirements recommending the AT SA to amend and 
align both versions in accordance with the present opinion.  

adopted 

 

4 

3. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure1, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks, 
until the 16th of July 2019. 

 

2  ASSESSMENT 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

2.1  General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft decision 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41(2) 
GDPR criteria and be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation section of 
the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency and a correct 
application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1)(p) GDPR, all the SAs will cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board will recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies.  The  GDPR  expressly  request  supervisory  authorities,  the  Board  and  the  Commission  to 
‘encourage the drawing up of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of 
the GDPR, taking account of the specific features of the various processing sectors and the specific 
needs  of  micro,  small  and  medium  sized  enterprises.’  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore  the  Board 
recognises that the requirements  need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of 
diverse  size,  addressing  various  interests  at  stake  and  covering  processing  activities  with  different 
levels of risk. 

In some areas the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the  SA  to  consider  the  examples  provided  for 
illustrative  purposes  only.  Therefore  the 
encouragements  and  the  examples  provided  in  the  present  opinion  do  not  have  to  be  followed. 
However, the aim of these examples is to help the AT SA to further develop consistent accreditation 
requirements in line with the present opinion. 

8.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

AT SA to take further action.  

9. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  document  submitted  by  AT  SA  is  a  draft  decision  on  the  accreditation 
requirements for monitoring bodies consisting of two parts: 

1) 

 “Explanatory notes” which contain general and specific explanations. 

1 Version 2, as last modified and adopted on 23 November 2018 

 

5 

adopted 

 

2) 

 The “Ordinance” which sets out the AT accreditation requirements. 

10. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the AT SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR,  such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR where required. 

 

2.2  Analysis  of  the  draft  decision  (composed  of  the  explanatory  notes  and  the 

ordinance) 

11. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct  the accreditation;  
b.  Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes  (excluding those covering public authorities per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited,  

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 

 

2.2.1 

INDEPENDENCE  

12.  With  regard  to  section  three  of  the  AT  SA’s  ordinance,  the  Board  highlights  that  the  obligation  to 
provide  evidence  as  to  the  independence  of  a  monitoring  body  falls  upon  the  body  applying  for 
accreditation (see article 41 (2)(a) GDPR).  The Board recommends that this is clarified in the AT SA’s 
requirements.  

13. 

14. 

The  Board  observes  that  the  AT  SA’s  explanatory  notes,  ‘general  notes’  section  concerning  the 
requirements, refer to independence “in relation to the subject matter of the code”. The Guidelines 
provide  further  information  about  what  this  means,  i.e.  the  independence  of  the  body  concerned 
should be demonstrated in relation to the code members, the profession, industry or sector to which 
the code applies and the code owner itself. Therefore, the Board recommends that the AT SA redraft 
this reference in line with the Guidelines. 

The Board is of the opinion that independence for a monitoring body should be understood as a series 
of  formal  rules  and  procedures  for  the  appointment,  terms  of  reference  and  operation  of  the 
monitoring  body.  These  rules  and  procedures  will  allow  the  monitoring  body  to  perform  the 
monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without being directly or 
indirectly influenced, nor subject to any form of pressure that might affect its decisions. This means 
that a monitoring body should not be in a position to receive any instructions regarding the exercise 
of its task from code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies, or from 
the code owner itself. 

6 

adopted 

 

15.  Where the monitoring body is part of the code owner organisation, particular focus must be made on 
their  ability  to  act  independently.  Examples  of  internal  monitoring  bodies  could  include  an  ad  hoc 
internal committee or a separate department within the organisation of the code owner. Rules and 
procedures have to be established to ensure that such a “committee” acts autonomously and without 
any pressure from the code owner or the code members. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  AT  SA’s  requirements  make  no  reference  to  the  two  main  models  of 
monitoring, as identified in the Guidelines. The Board therefore recommends that the AT SA amend 
the requirements to reflect this flexibility. One option would be to require that an internal monitoring 
body provides evidence of additional measures, to ensure that the relationship with the legal entity 
(of which the monitoring body is part of), does not compromise the independence of its monitoring 
activities. 

The Board observes that a specific provision of the draft accreditation requirements submitted by AT 
SA is devoted to the demonstration of independence by the monitoring body (section 3.2 of the AT 
ordinance). The said provision asks for information on persons authorised to make decisions, showing 
that there are no personal ties with the entities to be monitored. In addition, the explanatory note 
concerning  the  independence  requirements  clarifies  that  the  monitoring  body  shall  not  be  legally, 
economically, personally or professionally subordinate to or in close relationship with the monitored 
entities, which could bring into question its judgement or its independence and integrity in its function 
as a monitoring body. 

The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  accreditation  requirements  should  qualify  what  constitutes 
independence  and  clearly  set  out  the  areas  where  the  monitoring  body  should  demonstrate 
independence.  In  this  regard,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  AT  SA  further  strengthens  the 
independence section in line with the four areas set out below. 

1)  LEGAL AND DECISION MAKING PROCEDURES 

The legal form and arrangement of the monitoring body must shield the monitoring body from undue 
influence from members of the code or code owner which might affect the monitoring of compliance 
of a code. For instance, the duration, or expiration of the mandate of the monitoring body should be 
fixed in such a way as to prevent overdependence on a renewal or fear of losing the appointment, to 
an  extent  that  adversely  affects  the  independence  in  carrying  out  the  monitoring  activities  by  the 
monitoring body. 

20. 

The decision making procedure set out by a monitoring body must also preserve its autonomy and 
independence. For instance, a monitoring body needs to be able to act independently in its choice and 
application of sanctions against a controller or processor adhering to the code. 

2)  FINANCIAL 

21.  Monitoring  bodies  should  be  provided  with  the  financial  stability  and  resources  necessary  for  the 
effective performance of their tasks as well as be able to manage their budget  independently. The 
means  by  which  the  monitoring  body  obtains  financial  support  (for  example,  a  fee  paid  by  the 

7 

adopted 

 

members  of  the  code  of  conduct)  should  not  adversely  affect  the  independence  of  its  task  of 
monitoring compliance of a code. 

22. 

For instance, the monitoring body would not be considered to be financially independent if the rules 
governing its financial support allow a code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring 
body, to stop its financial contributions to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring 
body. 

3)  ORGANISATIONAL 

23.  Monitoring  bodies  should  have  the  human  and  technical  resources  necessary  for  the  effective 
performance  of  their  tasks.  Monitoring  bodies  should  be  composed  of  an  adequate  number  of 
personnel  so  that  they  are  able  to  fully  carry  out  the  monitoring  functions,  reflecting  the  sector 
concerned and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the code of conduct. Personnel of 
the monitoring body shall be responsible and shall retain authority for their decisions regarding the 
monitoring activities. These organisational aspects could be demonstrated through the procedure to 
appoint  the  monitoring  body  personnel,  the  remuneration  of  the  said  personnel,  as  well  as  the 
duration of the personnel’s mandate, contract or other formal agreement with the monitoring body. 

 

4)  ACCOUNTABILITY 

24. 

The monitoring body should be able to demonstrate “accountability” for its decisions and actions in 
order to be considered to be independent. This could be accomplished through such things as setting 
out the roles and decision making framework and its reporting procedures. 

 

2.2.2  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

25. 

The Board observes that the AT SA’s accreditation requirements do not address conflicts of interest. 
The Board recommends that the AT SA add requirements covering procedures to avoid conflicts of 
interest. Such procedures are likely to involve a risk based approach and will vary depending on the 
code.  Risks  may  arise  from  the  activities  or  the  relationships  of  the  monitoring  body  and  of  its 
personnel. 

26.  An  example  of  a  conflict  of  interest  would  be  monitoring  body  personnel  investigating  complaints 
against the organisation that they work for. In order to avoid any conflict of interest, the personnel 
would declare their interest and the work would be reallocated. 

27. 

The  Board  encourages  the  AT  SA  to  consider  the  following  practical  examples  of  accreditation 
requirements: 

•  A monitoring body shall identify situations that are likely to create a conflict of interest (due to its 
personnel, its organisation, its procedures, etc.) and set up internal rules in order to avoid conflicts 
of interest. 

8 

adopted 

 

•  A monitoring body shall provide a procedure to deal with the effects of situations identified as 

being likely to create a conflict of interest. 

•  Monitoring body personnel must commit in writing to complying with this requirement and to 
report any situation likely to create a conflict of interest and follow the procedures to avoid such 
conflicts. 

•  A  monitoring  body  shall  identify  and  eliminate  risks  to  its  impartiality  on  an  ongoing  basis. 

Evidence will include its risk management approach and associated procedures. 

 

2.2.3  EXPERTISE 

28. 

29. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  AT  SA’s  expertise  requirements  include:  an  excellent  knowledge  of  data 
protection and either a relevant degree (or equivalent qualification), or at least five years of relevant 
sector experience, which may include a maximum of two years of professional activity in an area other 
than the subject matter of the code (sections 3.4 and 3.5 of the AT ordinance). 

The Board acknowledges that the guidelines set a high bar requiring monitoring bodies to have the 
following expertise: an in-depth understanding of data protection issues, knowledge of the specific 
processing activities in relation to the code and appropriate operational experience and training for 
monitoring, such as auditing. 

30. 

The Board considers that the accreditation requirements need to be transparent. They also need to 
provide for monitoring bodies seeking accreditation in relation to codes that cover micro, small and 
medium-sized enterprises’ processing activities (article 40 (1) GDPR). 

31.  As required by the Guidelines, every code must fulfil the monitoring mechanism criteria (in section 6.4 
of  the  Guidelines),  by  demonstrating  ‘why  their  proposals  for  monitoring  are  appropriate  and 
operationally  feasible’  (paragraph  41,  page  17  of  the  Guidelines).  In  this  context,  all  codes  with 
monitoring bodies will need to explain the necessary expertise level for their monitoring bodies in 
order to deliver the code’s monitoring activities effectively. This could include taking into account such 
factors  as:  the  size  of  the  sector  concerned,  the  different  interests  involved  and  the  risks  of  the 
processing activities addressed by the code. This is without prejudice to data protection requirements. 
This would also be important if there are several monitoring  bodies, as the code will help ensure a 
uniform application of the expertise requirements for all monitoring bodies covering the same code. 

32. 

The Board encourages the AT SA to take into account the additional expertise requirements that can 
be defined by the code and ensure that the expertise of each monitoring body is assessed in line with 
the particular code. Whereby the SA will verify if the monitoring body possess adequate competencies 
for the specific duties and responsibilities to undertake the effective monitoring of the code.  

 

adopted 

 

9 

2.2.4  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

33. 

34. 

35. 

The Board observes that section 4 of the ordinance is too general. The Board is of the opinion that the 
procedures  to  monitor  compliance  with  codes  of  conduct  have  to  be  specific  enough  to  ensure  a 
consistent application of the obligations of code monitoring bodies. 

The  procedures  need  to  address  the  complete  monitoring  process,  from  the  preparation  of  the 
evaluation to the conclusion of the audit and additional controls to ensure that appropriate actions 
are taken to remedy infringements and to prevent repeated offences. 

The monitoring body should provide evidence of upfront, ad hoc and regular procedures to monitor 
the compliance of members within a clear time frame, and check eligibility of members prior to joining 
the code. 

36.  Moreover,  monitoring  body  personnel  shall  keep  confidential  all  information  obtained  or  created 

during the performance of the monitoring activities, except as required by law. 

37. 

The Board encourages the AT SA to consider the following examples of procedures: 

•  A procedure that provides for audit plans, to be carried out over a defined period of time (initial 
control and recurring controls), based on criteria such as the number of adherents to the code of 
conduct, the geographical scope, the received complaints, etc. 

•  An audit procedure that defines the audit methodology to be applied, i.e. a set of criteria to be 
assessed (common evaluation grid), the type of audit (self-assessment, off-site or on- site audits, 
ISO auditing standards), the documentation of the findings, etc. 

•  A procedure for the  investigation, identification and  management of infringement to the code 

that applies, when required, penalties as defined by the code of conduct (a penalty matrix) 

38. 

39. 

40. 

The Board recommends that optional requirements regarding monitoring procedures are provided in 
the AT explanatory notes and that mandatory requirements are clarified in the AT ordinance. 

The Board recommends that the objectives for each required procedure are explicitly defined in the 
accreditation requirements. 

The Board recommends that the reference to “relevant certificates” - that occurs more than once in 
the AT draft accreditation requirements - is clarified. 

 

2.2.5  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINTS HANDLING 

41.  With regard to the complaints handling procedure, the Board observes that the AT SA accreditation 
requirements (section 5.3.4 of the AT SA’s ordinance) include the duration of the proceedings, stating 
that “it should in any event not exceed two months from the date of receipt of the complaint”. 

42. 

The Board recommends that complaints handling process requirements should be set at a high level 
and reference reasonable time frames for answering complaints.  An example of a reasonable time 

10 

adopted 

 

period  could  be  that  the  complainant  should  be  notified  within  three  months  on  the  progress  or 
outcome  of  the  complaint  (similar  to  article  78  (2)  GDPR).  The  process  should  be:  documented, 
independent, effective and transparent, in order to ensure trust in the code. Accessible complaints 
procedures should be covered in the code itself.  The complaints handling process should be accessible 
by data subjects and the public. 

43. 

The Board encourages the AT SA to consider the following practical examples of requirements: 

•  A  monitoring  body  shall  provide  evidence  of  how  it  will  manage  complaints  procedures  and 

explain time frames.  

•  A  monitoring  body  shall  outline  a  procedure  to  receive,  manage  and  process  complaints.  This 

procedure must be independent and transparent. 

•  The complaints procedure shall be publicly available and easily accessible. 

•  The procedure shall ensure that all complaints are processed within a reasonable period of time. 

•  A monitoring body shall maintain a record of all complaints it receives and the actions taken, which 

the SA can access at any time. 

 

2.2.6  COMMUNICATION WITH THE COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 

44. 

45. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  AT  SA’s  ordinance,  section  6.4  provides  for  annual  reporting  by  the 
monitoring  body  to  the  Competent  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  the  CSA).  The  Board 
recommends that AT SA  amend section 6.4 of the ordinance, in order to  provide  for  more  regular 
communication means to the CSA during the year. 

The Board is of the opinion that the requirements need to address such areas as: actions taken in cases 
of infringement of the code and the reasons for taking them (article 41 (4) GDPR), periodic reports, 
reviews or audit findings. The code itself will also outline the communication requirements with the 
CSA, including appropriate ad hoc and regular reports. In the case of serious infringements of the code 
by code members, which result in serious actions such as suspension or exclusion from the code, the 
competent SA should be informed without delay. 

46. 

The Board considers ‘substantial change’ to cover any change that impacts on the monitoring body’s 
ability to perform its function independently and effectively. A substantial change would trigger a re-
accreditation  or  new  accreditation  process.  The  Board  recommends  that  the  AT  SA  address  the 
reporting of any substantial change to the CSA in the accreditation requirements. 

47. 

The Board encourages the AT SA to consider the following practical examples of requirements: 

•  A monitoring body shall set out reporting mechanisms.  

•  A monitoring body shall inform the CSA, without undue delay, of any substantial change to the 
monitoring  body  (particularly  relating  to  structure  or  organisation)  which  is  likely  to  call  into 

11 

adopted 

 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

question its independence, expertise and the absence of any conflict of interests or to adversely 
affect its full operation. 

 

2.2.7  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

The Board is of the opinion that the monitoring body has a key role in contributing to the review of 
the code and shall apply code updates (amendment or extension of the code) as decided by the code 
owner. 

The  Board  encourages  accreditation  requirements  which  require  a  monitoring  body  to  develop 
mechanisms that enable feed back to the code owners. Some options would be to use the results of 
the audit process, the handling of complaints or actions taken in code infringement cases. 

For  instance,  records  of  the  processing  of  complaints  (received  and  treated),  infringements  and 
remedies can be a good way to centralise relevant information in order to develop improvements to 
the code 

The Board encourages the AT SA to provide accreditation requirements  which will ensure that the 
monitoring  body  will  contribute  to  any  review  of  the  code,  in  accordance  with  the  code  owner’s 
instructions. 

 

2.2.8  LEGAL STATUS 

The Board observes that section 2.2 of the AT SA’s ordinance provides that a monitoring body may be 
based outside of the EEA. The Board is of the opinion that a monitoring body requires an establishment 
in the EEA. This is to ensure that they can uphold data subject rights, deal with complaints and that 
GDPR  is  enforceable  and  also  ensures  supervision  by  the  CSA.  The  Board  recommends  that  AT  SA 
require that the monitoring body has an establishment in the EEA 

Furthermore,  the  Board  observes  that  the  AT  SA  draft  requirements  do  not  provide  for  the 
accreditation of monitoring bodies in relation to codes that are approved as a tool for international 
transfers, together with binding and enforceable commitments of the controller or processor in the 
third country to apply the appropriate safeguards (article 46 (2)(e) GDPR). In this regard, it is worth 
noting that supplementary requirements may need to be added, once guidelines for codes as a means 
of facilitating international transfers have been adopted by the Board. 

The Board observes that the AT SA’s explanatory note for section 2.1 clarifies that natural persons can 
be  accredited  as  a  monitoring  body.  The  Board  encourages  the  AT  SA  to  provide  additional 
requirements in order for such a monitoring body to be accredited. These would include: being able 
to demonstrate the availability of adequate resources for the specific duties and responsibilities, as 
well as the full operation of the monitoring mechanism over time. Examples of scenarios to consider 
include: in the case of resignation or temporary inability of the person concerned. 

12 

adopted 

 

55. 

The  Board  recommends  that  the  AT  SA  require  that  the  monitoring  body  should  have  access  to 
adequate  resource  requirements  to  fulfil 
its  monitoring  responsibilities,  especially  for  the 
accreditation of a natural person as a monitoring body.  

56.  Moreover,  the  code  of  conduct  itself  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation  of  the  code’s 
monitoring mechanism is sustainable over time, covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring 
body being unable to perform the monitoring function.  In this regard, it would be advisable to require 
that a monitoring body demonstrates that it can deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring mechanism 
over  a  suitable  period  of  time.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  AT  SA  to  explicitly  require  that 
monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over time. 

57. 

58. 

The Board is of the opinion that a monitoring body does not need to have a specific legal form to apply 
for accreditation, provided that it can be held legally responsible for all its monitoring activities and 
demonstrate  sufficient  resources  to  deliver  its  monitoring  functions  (for  example,  effectiveness  of 
administrative fines, etc.). 

Finally,  the  Board  notes  that  the  AT  SA’s  explanatory  notes  and  ordinance  do  not  reference  sub-
contracting, leaving this area open for monitoring bodies applying for accreditation to decide upon. 
The  Board  recommends  that  AT  SA  clarifies  whether  the  monitoring  body  may  have  recourse  to 
subcontractors and on which terms and conditions  and that these are reflected in the explanatory 
notes  or  ordinance  accordingly.  If  AT  SA  indicates  that  subcontracting  is  allowed,  the  Board 
recommends  that  the  AT  SA  indicates,  in  its  ordinance,  that  the  obligations  applicable  to  the 
monitoring body are applicable in the same way to subcontractors.   

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

59. 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  Austrian  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an 
inconsistent application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to 
be made: 

60.  Regarding ‘independence’ the Board recommends that the AT SA:  

1.  clarify  that  the  task  of  providing  evidence  as  to  the  independence  of  a  monitoring  body  to  the 
satisfaction of a CSA falls upon the body applying for accreditation; 

2. redraft the explanatory note reference to “in relation to the subject matter of the code”, so that it 
is in line with the Guidelines;  

3. amend the requirements to reflect the two models of monitoring bodies set out in the Guidelines; 
and 

4.  strengthen  its  requirements  in  line  with  the  four  areas  (legal  and  decision  making,  financial, 
organisational and accountability) in order to qualify what constitutes independence. 

 

61.  Regarding ‘conflict of interest’ the Board recommends that the AT SA: 

13 

adopted 

 

1. add requirements covering procedures to avoid conflicts of interest. 

 

62.  Regarding ‘established procedures and structures’ the Board recommends that the AT SA:  

1. provide optional requirements regarding monitoring procedures in the AT explanatory notes and 
clarify mandatory requirements in the AT ordinance; 

2. explicitly define the objectives of each required procedure in the accreditation requirements; and 

3.  clarify  the  reference  to  “relevant  certificates”-  that  occurs  more  than  once  in  the  AT  draft 
accreditation requirements. 

 

63.  Regarding ‘transparent complaints handling’ the Board recommends that the AT SA’s:  

1.  complaints  handling  process  requirements  are  set  a  high  level  and  reference  reasonable  time 
frames for answering complaints.   

 

64.  Regarding ‘communication with the competent supervisory authority’ the Board  recommends that 

the AT SA: 

1. amend section 6.4 of the ordinance to provide for more regular communication with the CSA during 
the year; and 

2. address the reporting of any substantial change to the CSA in the accreditation requirements. 

 

65.  Regarding ‘legal status’ the Board recommends that the AT SA:  

1.  require that the monitoring body has an establishment in the EEA; 

2. require that the monitoring body should have access to adequate resource requirements to fulfil its 
monitoring responsibilities and demonstrate that it can deliver the code’s monitoring mechanism over 
a suitable period of time, especially for the accreditation of a natural person as a monitoring body; 
and 

3. clarify whether the monitoring body may have recourse to subcontractors and on which terms and 
conditions  and  that  these  are  reflected  in  the  explanatory  notes  or  ordinance  accordingly.  If 
subcontracting is allowed, amend the ordinance, so that the obligations applicable to the monitoring 
body are applicable in the same way to subcontractors.   

 

 

adopted 

 

14 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

66. 

This opinion is addressed to the Austrian supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to 
article 64 (5b) GDPR. 

67.  According to article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by 
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its 
draft decision. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does 
not intend to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does 
not intend to follow this opinion, in whole or in part. The supervisory authority shall communicate the 
final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions which have been subject to the 
consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

adopted 

 

15 

