

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities Social housing fund s.r.o. - processing of personal data in connection with sending offers of social services



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of the social service provider. It follows from the initiative that the controlled person sent letters to seniors who used some of the social services, offering to provide them with social services for life (care, meals, accompaniment and the like) if they transferred ownership of the immovable property to her.

The office found that the audited person collected the personal data of senior citizens from the real estate cadastre, and that he further processed this personal data as a personal data administrator, as he used it to send letters with an offer to take ownership of real estate in exchange for the provision of lifelong social services.

The controlled person thus violated the obligations under § 5, paragraph 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., as it further processed personal data collected from the real estate cadastre in violation of § 1, paragraph 2 and § 53 of Act No. 256/2013 Coll., cadastral law, i.e. without proper legal title.

The Chairperson of the Office rejected the objections submitted by the inspected person against the inspection findings. Due to the fact that the inspected person stated during the proceedings that he had terminated the activity in question and disposed of all personal data, the Office did not impose corrective measures. The office imposed a fine of CZK 2,000.

The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st half > Social Housing Fund s.r.o. - processing of personal data in connection with sending offers of social servicesView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



