 
 
 
 
 
 

711,446

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

November 19, 2021

Contact data collection: Corona warning app as a data-saving alternative in Berlin

enable state regulations

 
The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information appeals to the Berliner
Regulators, the use of the Corona-Warn-App as data-saving and effective
Alternative for breaking chains of infection to be legally anchored. This
Possibility also provides for the reform of the Infection Protection Act, which was approved yesterday
German Bundestag passed.
 
The Third Berlin SARS-CoV-2 Infection Protection Measures Ordinance is currently binding
Organizers, restaurateurs and other persons responsible for documenting attendance
their guests. To do this, according to the regulation, they must collect personal data from their guests
record, e.g. First and last name, telephone number and address. The purpose of
Data collection is the tracing of contacts of those who tested positive for Covid-19
people by the health authorities.
 
Due to the increased number of infections, the Berlin health authorities are loud
Media reports repeatedly pushed their personal limits when tracking contacts.
Accordingly, the data collected is either not collected at all, very late or only in part
used.
 
With the Corona-Warn-App there is a data-saving alternative for the interruption of
chains of infection. Organizers or restaurateurs can use the app to enter QR codes
Generate check-ins for your guests. In the event of infection of a guest, the
other users* via the Corona-Warn-App. by a new one
function, organizers can now also provide information about risk contacts
if the infected person had not checked in themselves via the Corona-Warn-App.
 
Since the Corona-Warn-App does not collect the data required by the regulation
Berlin organizers have not yet fulfilled their legal obligations with their commitment alone.
Saxony and Baden-Württemberg already allow checking in via the Corona warning app in
their state regulations.
 
Volker Brozio, Acting Head of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and freedom of information:
 
"The Corona-Warn-App is a data protection-compliant and effective tool
Breaking chains of infection available. The app is data-saving and relieves
the health authorities. The Berlin regulator should make it clear that checking in
can be used via Corona-Warn-App as an alternative to recording contact data. Here
the state of Berlin should follow the latest decisions at federal level.”

 
Responsible: Simon Rebiger

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   