THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

May 04, 2022

 Mastodon: Privacy-friendly Twitter alternative

is getting more and more approval

 

Use other public offices in Baden-Württemberg

Mastodon as a communication platform

 

Over 3,000 accounts follow the state representative for the

Data protection and freedom of information Dr. Stefan Brink up

Mastodon. The account of the state representative:

https://bawu.social/@lfdi

 

The microblogging platform Mastodon is currently enjoying many

new users. The account of the state representative for the

privacy and the

Freedom of information Baden-Württemberg

Stefan Brink receives a lot of encouragement. He is now followed by more than 3,000

accounts.

LfDI Stefan Brink: “We are very happy that Mastodon

and the Fediverse get more attention. social media is

much more than the commercial tech giants Facebook,

Instagram, Twitter and TikTok. Many users are now stepping out of their

filter bubble

out of here

and

turn around

itself

more sustainable

forms of communication.

- 2 -

It is not at all self-evident, its well-known digital

to leave the environment. So thank you to everyone who is curious

try alternative platforms. Although it is not certain that

the alternatives establish themselves, but it is now becoming apparent that

digital communication even without creating profiles and

the release of data for advertising purposes can succeed."

The state representative operates its own mastodon server,

where public bodies can set up an account and

on which numerous public bodies already have an account

have set up

such as the state government

the

Ministry of Environment,

the

Ministry of Agriculture,

the

Ministry of Transport, the State Center for Civic Education,

numerous universities such as the Media University

in

Stuttgart, Tübingen, Freiburg and the regional council

Freiburg, municipalities like the city of Freiburg and as the first

Cultural institution the municipal museums of Freiburg. Further

public bodies such as the L-Bank, the University of Konstanz, das

Studierendenwerk Tübingen-Hohenheim and the Stadtwerke

Sigmaringen recently created accounts.

Mastodon is a privacy-friendly decentralized alternative to

Twitter. Short messages, called "tweets" on Twitter

called "Toots" (German: "Tröts") on Mastodon. The maximal

Message length is 500 characters. pictures and videos

can also be shown here. You can other users

address them directly with an @ sign and with hashtags (#)

tag content. The platform is decentralized - in the

Principle like an e-mail service: everyone can have their own instance

operate or join an existing instance. One

Communication is possible across the boundaries of the instances.

If you want to set up an account, go to the Mastodon

Info page selected instances, there are many more instances

e.g. in this mastodon instance list. There it is also possible e.g. B.

to search for German language instances. In addition, there is

several apps for mastodon.

- 3 -

Mastodon is part of the so-called Fediverse, a network

different platforms. Fediverse also includes

PeerTube – an alternative to YouTube and therefore a place to

Show videos and share this content on the Internet. Also

can be offered via PeerTube live streams. Pixelfed is

an alternative to Instagram. Funkwhale is available as an audio service

Disposal. Facebook alternatives include Hubzilla and

friendica.

