1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00311/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00285/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to the entity METRO7, EDIFICACIÓN SINGULAR Y
SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION S.R.L. with CIF.: B99409906, owner of the website,
www.metro7.es, (hereinafter, “the claimed entity”), by virtue of a complaint filed
filed by D. A.A.A., (hereinafter, “the claimant”), and based on the following
you:

FACTS

FIRST: On 02/29/20, you have entered this Agency, filed a complaint
by the claimant in which he indicated, among others, the following:

“After going to make a request through the page www.metro7.es, I observe that
uses up to 8 different types of cookies and neither informs nor requests any permission,
also lacks legal notice or any other information on data processing,
including a contact form that collects data”.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 05/29/20, an informative request was addressed to
the claimed entity.

 : On 06/29/20, this Agency received a written response to the
THIRD
 
requirement by the claimed entity, in which it is informed, among others, of
the next:

“That, after the start-up and publication of the new web page of ME-
TRO7 ("https://metro7.es") on February 28, 2020, through which the
content, templates and navigation of it, certain problems appeared
in the hosting service that made it impossible for certain functions of said page
website were visible to users who accessed it.

That these facts produced that the legally established texts (legal notice, political
privacy policy and cookie policy) could not be noticed by the public that
accessed the website, which led to the claim of February 29, 2020 that a
affected user made before the AEPD.
 
In order to test this problem with the hosting service, it is attached as a Document
No. 1, the email sent to the company with which the contract was signed
development of the website «https://metro7.es/» in which the existing problems are noted.
try certain functionalities of the aforementioned web page.

That, immediately after learning of this problem, the developer
of the web adopted the necessary measures to adapt the web page in question to the
current regulations on data protection and information services.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

The pertinent texts that refer to: - Legal notice were included on the web. - Po-
Privacy policy. And - Cookies Policy.

You can check the privacy policy published on the web, the purposes
for which personal data is processed are: the maintenance of communications between
the parts; the resolution of doubts and queries raised by customers; and, provide
the latter from access to information regarding our services. In this sense-
do, the information required by article 13 of the RGPD has been included.

That, in reference to the processing of user data and storage of the
themselves, there are certain sections within the website where users can
enter personal data. In this sense, the sections are the following:
 
“contact” section (https://metro7.es/contacto/): which has been entered in the section
Contact form a checklist in which it is required to accept the privacy conditions
(in addition to linking with them) and the use of data and another in which the user grants
Give consent for data processing.
 
“Find your home” section (https://metro7.es/encuentra-m7/): it has been introduced
I have created a checklist in which it is required to accept the privacy conditions (in addition to
link to them) and the use of data, as well as the consent for the storage
information gathering.

“Energy test” section (https://metro7.es/testenergetico/): a new
checklist in which it is required to accept the privacy conditions (in addition to linking
with them) and the use of data, as well as the consent for the storage
to of information In addition, Document No. 3 provides the contact information
data received in the web form and web links.

Article 65.3 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights, establishes that: “the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection may inadmit the claim when the person in charge or in charge
treatment, prior warning issued by the Spanish Agency for Protection
tion of Data had adopted the corrective measures aimed at putting an end to the
possible breach of data protection legislation.

It is an obvious fact that the breach occurred in a very short space of time.
short and that all possible measures were taken to put an end to the non-compliance,
Therefore, based on the article cited in the preceding paragraph, the AEPD should
reject the claim that is the subject of this answering brief.

That this part understands that it is fully accredited, through the information
contributed to this writing, that the rights of the users of the web page that
occupies this writing, in terms of the protection of the treatment of personal data is
refers, is fully guaranteed.

FOURTH: On 09/20/20, this Agency verified the following:
following aspects, regarding the privacy policy and the cookie policy of the
Web page:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

On the main page of the website www.metro7.es, through the link: <<contact>>
https://metro7.es/contacto, located at the top of it, the web can re-
collect personal data of users, such as name, surname, email
tronic and phone number.

In this form, there is a space intended to include the query made by the
entity with the title: “Tell us what you liked about our website or how we can
work for you: ___”, however, in order to send the opinion or query, it is mandatory
I must have previously accepted the following two conditions:

“_ I give my consent for this website to store the information I send for
They can answer my question."

“_ I accept the privacy conditions, as well as the use of data to receive co-
informative communications of METRO 7 SINGULAR EDIFICATION AND CONSTRUCTION
SUSTAINABLE TION S.L”.

- Regarding the Privacy Policy:

There is a link at the bottom of the main page, with the title of "Privacy Policy".
vacidad”, which redirects to a page, https://metro7.es/aviso-legal-condiciones-de-pri-
privacy-and-cookies-policy
 
 /, in which it is reported: the identification data of the
entity; the legitimacy for the treatment of the data; the recipients of the data;
the rights of users; how long they keep the data; Inform that NO
will communicate data to third parties and informs that international transfer is NOT foreseen
of data. About the purpose for which the processing of personal data is intended,
indicates: “METRO 7 SINGULAR BUILDING AND SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION
S.L., treats the information provided by interested persons in order to maintain
have communication between both parties, the resolution of doubts and queries raised
you give".

- Regarding the Cookies Policy:

When accessing the main web page, www.metro7.es, (first layer), there is a
banner at the bottom of it, with the following message:

“This website uses PHP cookies to maintain the browser session and cookies
of third parties (Google Analytics) to carry out visit analytics tasks. by continuing

With your navigation we understand that you accept our Cookies Policy”.

<<ACCEPT>>

<<REJECT>>

If the "Cookies Policy" is accessed through the existing link in the banner, the
web redirects to a page where information is provided on, what are the
cookies and identifies the cookies used by this website.

FIFTH: On 10/14/20, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to open sanctioning procedure for violation of article 7 of the RGPD
mentioned, as it is mandatory to give consent to receive communications

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

of the entity when the questionnaire is sent to request information or
simply submit an opinion on the web.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a document of faith
dated 10/16/20, sends to this Agency, brief of allegations, in which, among others, in-
says:

“FIRST: On the one hand, we were told by the Spanish Protection Agency
Data that when giving consent through the website, contact area, is
stated “I accept the privacy conditions, as well as the use of your data for
receive informative communications from METRO7 EDIFICACIÓN SINGULAR Y CONS-
SUSTAINABLE TRUCTION S.L.” As indicated by the agency itself in its letter, this
cho violates the rights of the user since the door is opened for the user to receive
any type of notification, even if it is not related to the ultimate purpose for the
which the personal data has been collected.

In relation to the indicated deficiency, we have carried out the appropriate actions
of adequacy on our website in such a way that the consent given by
users does not necessarily imply the possibility of sending any
type of communication without there being a legal basis for data processing, so
possible informative communications will be made with prior voluntary acceptance. With
In order to prove this point indicated above, we attach a link for your verification.
tion and we show the contact section: https://metro7.es/contacto/

SEVENTH: On 02/12/21, this Agency verified the following:
These aspects on the website:

On the main page of the website www.metro7.es, through the link <<contacto>>
https://metro7.es/contacto, located at the top of it, the website can
collect personal data from users, such as name, surname, email
email and phone number.

In this form, the space for consultation has the title: "Tell us what you
liked our website or how we can work for you___”, but to send the
questionnaire it is mandatory to have previously accepted the privacy conditions.

There is the possibility of giving consent, if desired, for the website to store
the information necessary to respond to the request and also to receive communications
commercial statements of the entity, marking the corresponding boxes, located below
under the form.

PROVEN FACTS

1.- As stated by the claimant in his brief, after going to make a request through
of the page www.metro7.es, I note that the cookie policy and the privacy policy
privacy did not comply with current legislation.

2.- On the part of this Agency, it was found that the website in question could collect data
personal data of the users, through the existing questionnaire the tab, <<con-
touch>> intended to make inquiries to the entity or send opinions about the web,
but to send the questionnaire with the query or with the opinion, it was mandatory to accept

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

previously read the privacy conditions and give consent so that the website
will store personal data and be able to send commercial communications.

2.- In the Privacy Policy the identification data of the entity was reported;
the legitimacy for the treatment of the data; the recipients; the rights of
users; for how long they kept the data and informed that they would not communicate
data to third parties and that international data transfers would not be made.

3.- Regarding the cookie policy, it was verified that, when accessing the main page of
the web, (first layer), there was a banner, with the following message:

“This website uses PHP cookies to maintain the browser session and cookies
of third parties (Google Analytics) to carry out visit analytics tasks. by continuing

With your navigation we understand that you accept our Cookies Policy”.

<<ACCEPT>>

<<REJECT>>

If the "cookie policy" was accessed through the existing link in the banner, the
web redirected to a page where information is provided on, what are the
cookies and what types of cookies the website uses, its purpose and the time it is
laugh active.

4.- After initiating this sanctioning procedure, for infraction of article 7 of the
RGPD, the entity claimed, in the period of allegations, sent to this Agency, es-
certificate indicating having proceeded to the adaptation of the web page, in such a way that the
consent given by users does not imply the possibility of sending
of any type of communication without there being a legal basis for the treatment of the data.
cough.

5.- On the part of this Agency, it has been possible to verify later that, in the form
existing on the web, before sending the query or opinion on the web, it is obligatory
rio to have previously accepted the privacy conditions.

6.- There is the possibility, if the user wishes, to give their consent so that the
entity sends you commercial communications, checking the corresponding box if-
tuada in the contact form.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the Parliament-
European Act and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Movement of es-
Data (RGPD) recognizes each Control Authority and, as established in the
art. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate this procedure.
I lie.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the powers
investigative and corrective measures that the supervisory authority may order for this purpose,
mentioning in point 1.d), that of: “notifying the person in charge or in charge of the treatment
to the presumed infractions of this Regulation” and in 2.i), that of: “imposing a
administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned
mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case.

In the present case, it was claimed that the website www.metro7.es did not meet the
current legislation in its "Cookies Policy" or in its "Privacy Policy".

II

However, this Agency verified that, in its “Privacy Policy”, it was informed
of, the identification data of the data controller; the legitima-
tion for treatment; the recipients of the data; the rights of users;
how long they keep the data; informs that they will not communicate data to third parties
and reports that no international data transfers were made.

Regarding the "Cookies Policy" it was found that the existing banner on the page
main informed of the use of own and third-party cookies to perform tasks
visit analytics. In addition, it made it possible to accept all cookies or reject all.
you give the cookies. For its part, in the “Cookies Policy” (second layer), it is provided
provided information about what cookies are and what types of cookies this page uses.
web page

However, it was found that the website could collect personal data from users.
rios, when they made a query to the entity or sent a comment, but
to send said query or comment they had to accept that the entity save their
personal data and send them commercial communications.

Once the sanctioning file had been opened for this last reason, the entity sent the
this Agency written of allegations in which it indicated to have corrected the deficiency
Inc. Matter that was corroborated by this Agency, proving that, in the form
existing on the web, before sending the query or opinion on the web, it is necessary
necessary to have previously accepted the privacy conditions and that, on the other hand,
te, to receive commercial communications from the entity, the user must have marked
Check the consent box before.

Therefore, in view of the facts exposed, the Board of Directors of the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection,

RESOLVE

NOTICE: to the entity METRO7, SINGULAR EDIFICATION AND CONSTRUCTION
SUSTAINABLE S.R.L. with CIF.: B99409906, owner of the website, www.metro7.es
for the violation of article 7 of the RGPD, by not having adapted the collection
of the consent of the users for the sending of commercial communications, until
ta not have received the initiation of this sanctioning file.

NOTIFY: this resolution to METRO7, EDIFICACIÓN SINGULAR Y
SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION S.R.L.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

