


Press release 10/2023


  BfDI draws a positive conclusion on 5 years of GDPR
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) rates the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) as a successful European model that guarantees improved law enforcement.



Source: ©vegefox.com - stock.adobe.com

The BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber said: At the beginning there was of course some uncertainty among all those involved, as is completely normal when introducing a large, new legal system. In the meantime, we are increasingly moving in safe and predictable waters. The most recent decisions in cross-border cases have shown that even the large international providers must comply with the law.
With regard to the role model effect, the BfDI explains: The GDPR has set a new standard in Europe, which is increasingly finding its way into the data protection regulations of other countries worldwide. They, too, want to enable free data traffic that is trusted by the public. The countries that are based on the GDPR include Japan, Korea, Israel, Brazil and more and more states in the USA.
The BfDI sees future challenges in particular in the specific regulation of new technologies, such as e.g. B. Artificial Intelligence. He formulates two specific wishes for the future: We need faster processing of large, cross-border cases so that they can have a signal effect beyond the individual case and create legal certainty. It is important that applicable law is enforced. We also need manufacturer liability in data protection. It cannot be that small and medium-sized companies in particular have to take responsibility for data protection, which would actually be the task of Microsoft, Google and AWS in this world. This applies all the more when AI systems are increasingly used.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











