1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00378/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated May 20, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R. with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the public presentation of the minutes of the last
Community assembly in the elevators of the building, in which he identifies himself with
name, surnames, floors and door to the attendees and represented, and floor and
door of the neighbors involved in the issues discussed at the meeting, highlighting the
affected by a complaint that is going to be initiated due to some works considered
irregular by the Community.

Along with the claim, a copy of the minutes of the Extraordinary General Meeting of
the Community of Owners held on 04/25/2019, consisting of 12 sheets, the
email sent by the administrator dated 05/05/2019 attaching the
same record, copy of the response made by one of the neighbors on 05/08/2019
asking the reason for having exposed the complete minutes in the elevators, and copies
of the response given by the administrator that same day indicating that it was done by
President's request.

A photograph of the first page of the minutes is also attached, which allows us to appreciate the
place where it has been exposed (next to an elevator) and the personal data that has already been
can be seen on the first sheet.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

The claimant is informed of this claim on June 30,
2019, requiring you to submit to this Agency, within a period of one month, information
regarding the response given to the claimant regarding the facts denounced, as well as the
causes that have motivated the incidence and the measures adopted for its correction

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

in accordance with article 5.1 f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council of April 27, 2016 (RGPD).

In response to such a request, it is stated that the reason for having used
the elevators is that, although an attempt was made to notify all the neighbors by
certified letter, they do not always have proof of the reliable delivery of the same,
since the letters that are sent to the neighbors are collected by the doormen.

The minutes of this meeting were especially important, since they agreed on the
initiation of legal actions against a number of residents of the Community for works
illegal.

The minutes were published in the elevators to be guarantors, not to cause defenselessness to the
sued neighbors and to be sure that they were perfectly
aware of the decisions adopted, in the face of possible challenges and to
that they could not later rely on a lack of notification.

He further states that not only the elevators were used, but also the internal plank
concierge.

They maintain that at all times they are complying with the Property Law
Horizontal.

Subsequently, at the request of one of the two hundred and fifteen neighbors,
eliminate the personal data of names from the minutes, leaving only those of
floor and door, and it has also been decided to stop using the exhibitors of the
elevators for the placement of information of a personal nature, changing them to
locked exhibitors, to increase security.

The respondent provides a copy of the exposed record and a list of 16 certified letters
with their addressees, supposedly containing the minutes sent by the
administrator, which have been delivered (they have the corresponding sticker). The
The claimant's name is not among them.

THIRD: On December 18, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: Notification of the aforementioned agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning party is given a hearing period of TEN WORKING DAYS so that
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 73 and 76 of Law 39/2015 of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations.

FIFTH: Not having made allegations or presented evidence within the given period,
This resolution is issued taking into account the following:

FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

FIRST: Public presentation of the minutes of the last assembly of the Community in the
elevators of the building, in which it is identified with name, surnames, floors and door to
attendees and represented, and the floor and door of the neighbors involved in the
the topics discussed at the meeting, highlighting those affected by a complaint that was
will start due to works considered irregular by the Community.

The respondent provides a copy of the exposed record and a list of 16 certified letters
with their addressees, supposedly containing the minutes sent by the
administrator, which have been delivered (they have the corresponding sticker). The
The claimant's name is not among them.

SECOND: The claimant is made aware of this claim to which
responds that the reason for having used the elevators is that, although it was tried
notify the minutes to all the neighbors by certified letter, they do not always have
proof of the reliable delivery of the same, since the letters that are sent to
the neighbors are collected by the doormen.

The minutes of this meeting were especially important, since they agreed on the
initiation of legal actions against a number of residents of the Community for works
illegal.

The minutes were published in the elevators to be guarantors, not to cause defenselessness to the
sued neighbors and to be sure that they were perfectly
aware of the decisions adopted, in the face of possible challenges and to
that they could not later rely on a lack of notification.

THIRD: This Agency has not received any allegation within the period given for it,
after notifying the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow considering

lawful processing of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

The public presentation of the minutes of the last assembly of the
the Community in the elevators of the building, in which it is identified by name,
surnames, floors and door to the attendees and represented, and floor and door of
the neighbors involved in the issues discussed at the meeting, highlighting those affected
for a complaint that is going to be initiated due to some works considered
irregular by the Community.

Also, note that the initiation of legal actions against some neighbors
by the Community does not justify the publication of the minutes with the personal data
of all the neighbors attending the meeting, indicating name, surnames, plant and
door, because if what you want is to reliably communicate the agreement
adopted at the Board, the Community should use a means such as burofax or letter
certified, which guarantees the protection of personal data of those affected, therefore
it is understood that the claimed party has violated article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the
principles of integrity and confidentiality of personal data, as well as the
proactive responsibility of the controller to demonstrate its
compliance.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum.
or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but significant

active (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected, according to the article

83.2g)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the COMMUNITY OF PROPRIETORS R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a fine of €15,000 (fifteen thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

through the

  Electronic Registration of

introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

