 

 
Professor Dr. Katja Becker 
President of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft 
Kennedyallee 40 
53175 Bonn, Germany 
 
 
 

 

By e-mail only 

 

Dear Dr. Becker 

15 December 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-135  

I refer to your letter dated 7 May 2020 regarding the impacts of the GDPR on Research. Thank you 
very much for sharing the views of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft on this important topic. We 
appreciate your efforts and willingness to contribute on this very relevant subject.  

First of all, I would like to emphasize that the GDPR does not stand in  the way of  scientific research 
and  development.  On  the  contrary, the  GDPR provides  for  several  provisions  that  allow  for  the 
processing  of personal  data for  the purpose  of  scientific  research, while at the same time ensuring 
that the fundamental rights of data subjects are respected. This being said, the EDPB is well aware of 
the importance of scientific research and the need to have clear guidance. In this respect, the EDPB is 
currently  working  on  guidelines  on  the  processing  of  personal  data for  the  purpose  of  scientific 
research.  

With  regard to  your  concerns  on  the anonymization  of  personal  data for  the  purpose  of  scientific 
research, the EDPB underlines that, where the research requires the processing of personal data and 
it  complies  with the  relevant provisions  of  the GDPR, it  can  be  possible  to  process  personal  data 
without  resorting  to  anonymization.  If  anonymization 
is  performed,  the  EDPB  recalls  that 
anonymization refers to “the use of a set of techniques in order to remove the ability to link the data 
with an identified or identifiable natural person against any “reasonable” effort.” 1 In order to perform 
a “reasonability test”, the objective aspects (e.g. time and technical means) and contextual elements 
(e.g. nature and volume of the data) must be taken into account. 2 If personal data can be re-identified 
using a reasonable effort, the data cannot be considered as anonymous  in the meaning of the GDPR 
and,  therefore,  it  would  fall  within  the  scope  of  the  GDPR. Considering  this,  anonymization  of 
radiological data or image/film material, as mentioned  in your letter, would generally require more 
than just the deletion of the name or address of the data subjects. With regard to genome data, the 
EDPB has previously stressed the impossibility  of definitively de-identifying biological samples.3 When 
genome data is derived from such samples, it is therefore highly doubtful  that anonymisation of this 
data is achievable. 

                                                             
1 Guidelines 4/2020, par. 15. 
2 Guidelines 4/2020, par. 15. 
3 See EDPB letter to the Presidency of the Council of the EU on WADA 

 

1 

 

 

Indeed, in  the Guidelines  3/2020  on  the processing  of  data concerning  health  for  the  purpose  of 
scientific research in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak, the EDPB stated that, in accordance with 
the  data minimisation  principle,  “data has  to  be  anonymised  where  it  is  possible  to  perform  the 
scientific research with anonymised data”. 4 Conversely, where the research requires the processing of 
personal  data, it is possible,  provided  the provisions  of  GDPR are complied  with. In this regard, the 
Board acknowledged that other up-to-date measures may also ensure a sufficient level of security of 
the personal data, such as, inter alia, pseudonymisation, encryption  or non-disclosure  agreements.5 
Thus, in some instances, other measures than anonymization may be more appropriate, taking into 
account the circumstances of  the processing  operation. In any  case, the decision  on  the measures 
adopted has to be taken on a case-by-case basis and the controller is tasked with the examination of 
their effectiveness and appropriateness to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subjects.  

Furthermore, the EDPB would  like to underline that the processing of personal data for the purpose 
of achieving anonymization falls within the scope of the GDPR and, therefore, needs to comply with 
it,  including  the  existence  of  a  legal  basis  and  the  respect  for  the  data  protection  principles.  As 
anonymisation  is  frequently  connected  to  processing  on  a  large  scale  (of  the  datasets  to  be 
anonymised)  and  the  use  of  new  technologies,  it  will  trigger the  criteria  for  conducting  a  data 
protection impact assessment under Article 35 GDPR in many cases.   Therefore, also in this context, 
the controller also has to take into account the consequences of a possible  re-identification. 

With  regard to  the  processing  of  personal  data for  research  purposes,  a  data protection  impact 
assessment pursuant to Article 35 (1) GDPR must be carried out when the processing is “likely to result 
in a high risk  to the rights and freedoms of natural persons". The lists  pursuant to Article 35 (4) and 
(5) GDPR shall be taken into account. The EDPB endorsed the A29 WP’s Guidelines on Data Protection 
Impact Assessment6,  which  address,  inter alia, the processing  of  sensitive  data or  data of  a highly 
personal nature like health data or genetic data. Besides, the EDPB also adopted several Opinions  on 
the draft lists submitted by the supervisory  authorities regarding the processing operations subject to 
the requirement of a data protection impact assessment. 7  

Finally,  with regard to  codes  of  conduct, the EDPB is  of  the  opinion  that they  can be a  useful  and 
effective accountability tool, which provide  a detailed description  of  what is  the most appropriate, 
legal and ethical set of behaviours  of a sector. As stated in the Guidelines 1/2019,8 “codes represent 
an opportunity to establish a set of rules which contribute to the proper application of the GDPR in a 
practical, transparent and potentially  cost effective  manner that takes on  board  the nuances  for a 

                                                             
4 Guidelines 3/2020, par. 46. 
5 Guidelines 3/2020, par. 51. 
6 Available at: https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=611236  
7  The  lists  adopted  by  the  supervisory  authorities  are  available  at:  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/consistency-findings/register-for-decisions_en; for research performed by public bodies of the Federation 
in Germany, see: 
https://www.bfdi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/Datenschutz/Liste_VerarbeitungsvorgaengeArt35.html
;jsessionid=0B8F983AD3FDC113ED927DCB16CB1D97.1_cid329?nn=9937868 
8 See Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring Bodies under Regulation 2016/679 

 

2 

 

particular sector and/or its processing activities.”9 The EDPB encourages the work on codes of conduct 
and welcomes the development of a specific code for the scientific research sector.  

Yours sincerely, 

Andrea Jelinek 

Chair of the EDPB 

 

 

 

                                                             
9 Guidelines 1/2019, par. 11. 

 

3 

