press release

 

Kick-off event for the anniversary year

Freedom of information at the TLfDI in cooperation with

the TLM

in

the

Thuringia

in co-operation with

Erfurt, May 2nd, 2023
 
The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information
(TLfDI) on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of freedom of information in its
Authority held a kick-off event as a panel discussion on the topic of
Freedom of Information
Thuringian
State Media Authority (TLM), with which he put the topic more into the media
wants to raise awareness among citizens. Because knowledge is power!
In addition to the Thuringian freedom of information officer, Dr.
Lutz Hasse, as a talk guest Mrs. Melanie Pesch from the Jena city administration, Mr
Peter Häusler from “More Democracy e. V., State Association of Thuringia” and Mr. Niels
Lötel, who wrote a dissertation on freedom of information law. In the
During the lively discussion round, the individual guests have their views of the
described in the last ten years from the point of view of freedom of information, criticism of
Thuringian transparency law practiced and constructive impulses given.
The almost one-hour round of talks can be viewed on the TLfDI website at
www.tlfdi.de can be viewed.
"Since this is a cooperation with TLM, I would like to participate in this one as well
I would like to express my thanks to TLM for the good cooperation. I am
looking forward to more interesting videos in the anniversary year," says Dr. Lutz Hasse.

 

 

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

dr Lutz Hasse

Hässlerstrasse 8
99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

