• 

Upholding 

information 
rights 

ICO. Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Cheshire 

SK9 5AF 

Tel. 0303 123 1113 Fax. 01625 524 510 www.ico.org.uk 

Manager 

Governance 
Governance 

Delivery 
Directorate 
Trust 

Information 
Information 
Royal Free London NHS Foundation 
Anne Bryans House 
77 Fleet Road 
London 
NW3 2QH 

By email only to: 

10 November 2022 

Dear-

Case reference:INV/0136/2022 
Your reference: IGAR338 

I write to inform you that the  ICO  has 
loss of access to hysteroscopy 
NHS Foundation 

Trust ("the Trust"). 

scans held 

now completed 

on USB sticks 

its investigation 
by Royal Free London 

into the 

it is my understanding 

that scans were saved on  to  a 

series of three 

years from May 2013 until  the 

remaining 

two 

USB sticks became inaccessible  on  5 

April 2018. It is unknown 

In summary, 
USB sticks  over a 
encrypted 
whether this inaccessibility 
human error 

from inputting 

period of nine 

was as  a result of  a technical 
the wrong password. 

failure 

of the USBs or 

This case  has 
Regulation 

been considered 

under the United Kingdom General  Data 

Protection 

(the  UK GDPR) due to  the nature of  the processing 

involved. 

Our consideration of  this case 

I have investigated 
data protection 

legislation. 

whether the Trust  has complied 

with the requirements 

of the 

In  the course of my investigation 
harm caused by the failure 
technological 

which contributed 

failure 

I have noted that there appears  to 

be no actual 

and there was an element of human error and/or 

to this incident. 

We have also considered 
light of this incident. 
policies 
and procedures 
along with a Trust wide 

steps taken by the Trust in 
begun an overhaul 
of 
in  the  Information 
Team 
Governance 
USB stick review and the 

asset mapping, 

and investment 
information 

In  particular 

that the Trust  has 

and welcome the remedial 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

identification  and training  of information  asset  owners.  It  is  also  noted  that  the 
Trust has  ceased  storing  images  on a  USB  and is  reviewing  the  need to capture 
images  going forward. 

However, after careful consideration and  based on the information provided, we 
have decided to issue  the Trust with a reprimand in accordance with Article  58  of 
the  UK  GDPR. 

Details of  reprimand 

The  reprimand has  been issued  to  the Trust in  respect  of the following 
infringements of the  UK  GDPR: 

•  Article  S(l)(f) which  states  that  "Personal data shall  be:  (f)  processed in  a 

manner  that  ensures  appropriate security  of the  personal  data, including 
protection  against  unauthorised or unlawful processing  and  against 
accidental  loss,  destruction  or  damage,  using  appropriate  technical  or 
organisational  measures  ('integrity  and  confidentiality')." 

•  Article  24(1)  which  states  that "Taking  into  account  the  nature,  scope, 

context  and  purposes of processing  as  well  as the  risks  of  varying  likelihood 
and  severity  for  the rights  and  freedoms  of natural  persons,  the  controller 
shall implement  appropriate  technical  and  organisational measures  to 
ensure  and  to  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  processing is performed in 
accordance  with  this  Regulation. Those  measures  shall  be  reviewed  and 
updated where  necessary." 

In particular,  the Trust has  failed  to  ensure  an  appropriate level  of security  of 
personal data, resulting  in  the inaccessibility  of personal data relating  to  between 
4,000  to  10,000  data  subjects.  It is  also  noted that the Trust  did not  initially 
recognise  this inaccessibility  as  a  data  protection  breach resulting  in  a  delay in 
reporting  this  to the  ICO. 

It has  been noted  that  over  the course  of  the  use of the  USBs the  data  held  on 
this was  not  backed  up on to Trust  servers  which  was in  breach  of Trust  policy. 
However  whilst  a  breach  of policy, there  was a  failure  on the  part  of the Trust  to 
raise  awareness of the correct handling  procedures for  such devices  as  per 
policy,  and  a lack  of oversight  to  ensure  the policies in place  were being  correctly 
adhered  to. 

2 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The Trust has  been  unable  to  evidence  any  risk  assessments being  completed 
over  a nine year  period,  beyond  a very  basic  set  of  considerations when the  USBs 
were first commissioned  and there  was a Trust  wide  misconception  of what 
constitutes a  data  breach.  Furthermore, there  was a  lack  of training in place, 
which resulted in  a  significant  delay in  both  Information  Governance  and the  ICO 
being informed  of the breach.  Finally  there  was  a failure to  adequately  manage 
the  use of the  USBs  sticks  by  appointing  Information Asset Owners  and System 
managers.  Had  such measures  been in  place,  the Trust may have  been  able  to 
prevent such an incident from occurring. 

In conclusion,  a  reprimand  is  being issued  due to infringements noted in  respect 
of Article  S(l)(f) Article  24(1)  of the  UK  GDPR. 

Further Action Recommended 

The  Commissioner  recommends  that  the Trust could  take certain steps  to 
improve its  compliance with  Article  5 (l)(f)  and Article  24  (1)  of the  UK  GDPR.  In 
particular: 

1.  Review data  protection training to ensure  that  employees  are  clear  on what 

constitutes  a  data  breach  and  when it  needs to  be  reported. 

2.  Consider  incorporating  anonymised  examples  of incidents  into  data 

protection training to raise  awareness  of the potential  for  breaches  to 
occur,  with  particular  attention  being  given  to their  inclusion in 
departments  or  hospitals  where such incidents  have  occurred. 

3.  Ensure  that  the collective learnings  from  data  breaches  are  shared across 

the  whole Trust,  particularly  if  the type  of processing is common  across 
areas. 

4.  Ensure  that  any  data  processing activities are  regularly  and  adequately  risk 

assessed. 

5.  Ensure  that  Information Asset Owners  are named  and  recorded  for  all 

Information Assets 

6.  Ensure  that  all  Information Asset Owners confirm  they have  read and 

understood any relevant  policies  on  a  regular  basis. 

3 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

7.  The  trust  could  also  ensure ongoing compliance with Article  33  by 

reviewing  the data  breach reporting  procedure  to  ensure  that  the  content is 
adequate  and  relevant  to  all departments within  the Trust.  Consider 
routinely  recirculating the  procedure  with  a  requirement  for  all members  of 
staff to  confirm that they have read and  understood the content. 

In  order  to ensure  that  the  above measures have  been  carried out,  please 
provide  an  update  with  regards  to  your progress  against  the measures by 10 
February  2023. 

Whilst the above measures are suggestions,  I would like to  point  out that if 
further  information relating  to  this  subject comes to light,  or if any further 
incidents or  complaints  are  reported  to us,  we  will  revisit  this  matter  and  further 
formal regulatory  action may be  considered  as  a result. 

Further information  about compliance with  the  data protection legislation which is 
relevant  to  this  case  can  be found  at  the  following  link: 

https: //ico. org. u k/for-organ isations/gu ide-to-data-protection/ 

We actively publicise our  regulatory activity and  outcomes,  as this  helps  us  to 
achieve  our  strategic aims in  upholding  information  rights in the public interest. 
We may publish information  about cases reported  to  us,  for  example where  we 
think  there  is  an  opportunity for  other  organisations to  learn  or  where  the  case 
highlights  a  risk or  novel  issue. 

Therefore,  we may publish the  outcome of this investigation to  publicise  our 
regulatory  authority  and  new  powers  under the  UK  GDPR.  We  will  publish 
information  in  accordance  with  our  Communicating  Regulatory  and  Enforcement 
Activity  Policy,  which is  available  online  at  the following link: 

https: //ico.org. uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico  enforcement  communications  policy.pdf 

Please  let  us  know if you have  any  concerns  about this. 

Thank  you for  your  co-operation  and assistance during the  course of our 
investigation. 

We  now consider the matter  closed. 

Yours sincerely 

4 

•

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Investigation Officer  - Civil  Investigations 
Regulatory Supervision Service 
The  Information  Commissioner's  Office 

Please  note  that  we  are  often  asked  for  copies  of the correspondence  we 
exchange  with  third  parties.  We  are  subject  to  all  of the  laws  we  deal  with, 
including  the  United  Kingdom  General  Data  Protection Regulation,  the  Data 
Protection Act  2018  and  the  Freedom  of  Information  Act  2000.  You can read 
about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk). 

The  ICO publishes basic details about the complaints, investigations  and  self­
reported  data  breaches it handles. These  details  include the  name of the 
organisation  concerned,  the dates  that  we opened  and  closed  the  case, and  the 
outcome.  Examples  of published  data  sets  can  be  found  at  this  link 
(https: //ico. org. u k/about-the-ico/our-i nformation/com plaints-and-concerns-data­
sets/). 

We  do  not include personal  data  in the  published  datasets  and  will  anonymise  the 
names  of sole  traders  etc  prior  to  publication.  We  also  do  not  publish  cases 
concerning  domestic  CCTV  complaints  and may not publish certain  other  cases  if 
we  feel  it is  not  appropriate  to  do  so in  the  circumstances. 

If you  wish  to  raise  an  objection to us  publishing  a case in the datasets,  whether 
or  not  we have  published  it  yet,  please  contact  us  explaining  your  reasons  for 
this at icoaccessinformation@ico.org.uk  . 

Please say whether  you consider  any  of the  information  you  send  us  is 
confidential.  You should also  say why so that  we can  take that  into  consideration. 
However,  please  note that  we  will  only  withhold  information  where  there  is  good 
reason  to  do  so. 

For information about what  we do with personal data  see our privacy notice  at 
www.ico.org. u k/privacy-notice 

5 

