Press release: 03/2021
Magdeburg, March 11, 2021

 
L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c t i o n
 

 

State Commissioner for Data Protection warns of security gaps

Microsoft Exchange mail servers and urges the reporting of data breaches.

 

 

Despite current press releases on the initiative of the Federal Office for Security

in information technology (BSI) and immediate assistance from Microsoft

the state commissioner for data protection that in a large number of companies

of the country the mail servers are still acutely endangered. He shares the view of

BSI that there is a high probability that vulnerable systems are already being attacked

and infected with malware. Only those servers that exclusively have

trusted connections can be reached (VPN), should be from such

attacks will not be affected.

 

Microsoft provides updates that Exchange administrators must promptly

should be turned. In addition, Microsoft provides its own test script

Available, which system administrators can use to find clues about attacks on your

systems can obtain. Further information can be found on the BSI website

and microsoft.

 

The state representative points out that due to the obligation to guarantee

performance of the security of their processing activities in accordance with Art. 32 GDPR by the

those responsible for endangered systems require the immediate installation of the available security

security patches are expected. “Given the high damage potential, after

After the update has taken place, it is also necessary to check whether the measure was taken too late and has already been taken

Malicious code was installed. Identified data protection violations are the

to report to the supervisory authority in accordance with Article 33 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Therefor

An electronic reporting form is available on our website. Further

is to check whether the persons concerned are to be notified.” said Albert

Cohaus, who represents the state representative.

 

 

Press release: 03/2021
Magdeburg, March 11, 2021

 
L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c t i o n
 

Related Links:

 BSI press release: https://www.bsi.bund.de/DE/Service-Navi/Presse/Press-

seminteilungen/Presse2021/210305_Exchange-Wachstelle.html

 Microsoft Security Information: https://www.micro-

soft.com/security/blog/2021/03/02/hafnium-targeting-exchange-servers/

 

Imprint:

 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
ladder street 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803-0
Fax: 0391 81803-33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

