 

Registered mail
Booking.com B.V.
The board of directors
attn [CONFIDENTIAL]
PO Box 1639
1000 BP Amsterdam

 

 

Date
Dec 10, 2020
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 
 

 
Topic
Decision to impose an administrative fine
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authority data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear [CONFIDENTIAL],
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) has decided to inform Booking.com B.V. (Booking) an administrative
fine of € 475,000. The AP is of the opinion that Booking Article 33, first paragraph, of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) from January 16, 2019 to February 6, 2019
because Booking has failed to commit a personal data breach within
72 hours after it was made known, to be reported to the AP.
 
The decision is explained in more detail below. Chapter 1 contains an introduction and chapter 2 describes it
legal framework. In chapter 3, the AP assesses its authority, the processing responsibility
and the violation. Chapter 4 elaborates on the (level of the) administrative fine and Chapter 5
contains the operative part and the remedies clause.
 
 
 

 

Annex(es) 1

 

1



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

1 Introduction

1.1 Relevant legal entities
 
Booking is a private company with its registered office at Herengracht 597 (1017 CE) te
Amsterdam. Booking was founded on June 23, 1997 and is in the register of the Chamber of Commerce
registered under number 31047344. Booking offers an online platform where Trip Providers,
such as accommodations, can offer their products and services for reservation and users of the
platform can then reserve it.
Booking is, through various Dutch and English legal entities, an indirect 100% subsidiary of the
US NASDAQ Stock Market Listed Booking Holdings Inc. The latter had apparently
its 2019 public and consolidated financial statements reported sales of $15.1 billion (EUR
13,727,410,000) and a net income of USD 4.9 billion (EUR 4,454,590,000).
 
1.2 Reason for research
 
On February 7, 2019, Booking notified the AP of a personal data breach
(data breach) done. An unknown third party had access to a Booking reservation system
by pretending to be an employee of Booking at multiple accommodations. Here are the
personal data of several involved parties, which via the Booking platform hotel reservations
had done, compromised. Because Booking indicated in the notification form that
Booking had discovered the personal data breach on January 10, 2019, the AP is a
launched an investigation into Booking's compliance with Article 33(1) of the GDPR.
 
1.3 Process
 
In a letter dated 12 February 2019, the AP sent an inquiry to Booking. This request is
also sent by e-mail on 26 February 2019.
 
On February 27, 2019, Booking notified the above infringement in connection with
personal data supplemented.
 
By letter dated 1 March 2019, Booking responded in writing to the request for information of 12 February
2019.
 
By letter dated 6 March 2019, the AP sent Booking an additional information request.
 
By letter dated March 13, 2010, Booking responded in writing to the request dated March 6, 2019.
 
By email dated March 19, 2019, the AP sent an additional request for information to Booking.
 

 

 

2/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
By email dated March 19, 2019, Booking provided the requested information and an additional document to the
AP sent.
 
Due to the cross-border nature of the case, the AP has informed the other supervisory authorities
authorities on 19 March 2019 of the present case, also finding
that the AP is acting as lead regulator now that Booking's headquarters is located in
The Netherlands.
 
In a letter dated July 16, 2019, the AP submitted an intention to enforce and the investigation report
Booking was sent and Booking was given the opportunity to make its point of view known.
Booking has given its opinion on this intention in writing by letter dated 3 September 2019 and
the underlying report.
 
On October 23, 2020, the AP sent a draft decision to the data subject in accordance with Article 60 of the GDPR
supervisory authorities. No objections have been lodged against this.
 

2. Legal framework

2.1 Scope GDPR
 
Pursuant to Article 2(1) of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to all or part of
automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data that are in a file
included or intended to be included therein.
 
Pursuant to Article 3(1) of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to the processing of
personal data in the context of the activities of an establishment of a
controller or a processor in the Union, whether or not the processing is carried out in the Union
does not take place.
 
Pursuant to Article 4 of the GDPR, for the purposes of this Regulation:
1. “Personal data”: any information about an identified or identifiable natural person
(“the data subject”); […].
2. “Processing”: an operation or set of operations relating to personal data or
a set of personal data, whether or not carried out by automated processes […].
7. “Controller” means a […] legal person […] that, alone or together with others, has the purpose
of and determine the means of processing personal data; […].
12. “Personal Data Breach” means a breach of security committed by accident or on
unlawfully leads to the destruction, loss, alteration or unauthorized disclosure of
or unauthorized access to data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed;

 

 

3/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
23. “Cross-border processing”: […] b) processing of personal data in the context of the
activities of one establishment of a controller […], resulting in more than one
Member State data subjects are or are likely to be materially affected.
 
2.2 Notification of personal data breach
 
Under Article 4, twelfth, of the GDPR, a “personal data breach”
means a breach of security that accidentally or unlawfully leads to the destruction,
the loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of or access to
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed data.
 
Pursuant to Article 33(1) of the GDPR, a controller submits a breach
connection with personal data without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72
hours after becoming aware of it, to the competent supervisory authority in accordance with Article 55
authority, unless it is not likely that the infringement will pose a risk to the rights and freedoms
of natural persons (…). In the event that the notification to the supervisor is not made within 72 hours
takes place, it shall be accompanied by a justification for the delay.
 
2.3 Competence of the leading supervisory authority
 
Pursuant to Article 55(1) of the GDPR, each supervisory authority has the competence to
territory of its Member State to carry out the tasks assigned to it in accordance with this Regulation
and to exercise the powers conferred on it in accordance with this Regulation.
 
Pursuant to Article 56(1) of the GDPR, the supervisory authority of the principal place of business or the
sole establishment of the controller (…) to act competently without prejudice to Article 55
as lead supervisory authority for the cross-border processing by those
controller (…) in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60.
 

3. Review

3.1 Competency AP
 
In the present case, it concerns a processing of personal data by Booking as a result of which
data subjects in more than one Member State have experienced material consequences.1 This means that
cross-border processing within the meaning of Article 4(23)(b) of the GDPR. The AP states
establishes that it is competent to act as lead supervisory authority under Article 56 of the GDPR
authority now that Booking's head office is located in Amsterdam.
 

                                                                        
1 See section 3.4.2.

 

 

4/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
3.2 Processing of personal data
 
According to Article 4(1) of the GDPR, personal data concerns all information about a
identified or identifiable natural person (“the data subject”). If becomes identifiable
considered a natural person who can be identified directly or indirectly, for example by
one or more elements characteristic of the physical or physiological identity of that natural
person.
 
Article 4(2) of the GDPR defines the concept of processing as an operation of personal data,
such as collecting, recording, storing, retrieving, consulting or using them.
 
Booking offers an online reservation platform where so-called “Trip Providers”, such as
accommodation providers and other providers, available accommodations, flights, rental cars and
offer day trips. Via the platform, visitors can, among other things, go to places to stay and stay overnight
search for day trips after which they can be reserved via the platform.
When making a reservation via the Booking platform, personal data such as:
contact, reservation and payment details entered. Booking will then provide the details of the
reservation to the Trip Provider via the Extranet of Booking. 2 The Booking Extranet is an online
administrative dashboard with secure access. In addition to access to reservation data in the Extranet,
the Trip Providers have access to all information displayed on the Trip Provider page at Booking.com
displayed, including payment options and policies.
To gain access to the Extranet, the Trip Provider must provide a username, password and 'two factor'
authentication pin code'. After the Trip Provider has logged in to the Extranet, they can
consult necessary reservation details of the guests.
 
Booking's Security Team engaged in response to the breach has determined that a
unknown third party has gained access to the Extranet of Booking. The findings of the
Security Team are recorded in a so-called Security Incident Summary report. From it in the file
included Security Incident Summary report of February 28, 2019 shows that, among other things, the following
guest data stored in the Extranet has been compromised: first name, last name,
address, telephone number, check-in and check-out date, total price, reservation number, price per night,
any correspondence between accommodation and guest and with regard to 283 persons involved the
credit card details of which 97 with the 'card verification code'.3
 
The reported breach in connection with Booking's personal data thus concerns, among other things, names,
address details, telephone numbers and credit card details of hotel guests. Now that this concerns information about
identified or identifiable natural persons, the aforementioned data can be regarded as
personal data as stipulated in Article 4, first part, of the GDPR.
 

                                                                        
2 File 1: notification of a personal data breach 7-2-2019, p3.
3 File 9, Responses from Booking to a request for information, Appendix 5.

 

 

5/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP has established that personal data is processed via the Extranet: the data
are recorded, stored and further disclosed in the Extranet. The set of operations in the
Extranet is a processing of personal data as referred to in Article 4, part two, of the GDPR.
 
3.3 Controller
 
In the context of the question of who can be held responsible for committing an offence
of the GDPR, it should be determined who can be regarded as a controller
as referred to in Article 4(7) of the GDPR. It is important to establish who the purpose of and
the means of processing personal data – in this case the processing of personal data
of data subjects who use the Booking platform.
 
The AP is of the opinion that Booking determines the purpose and means for the processing of the
personal data relating to reservations made through Booking.com and
are then processed via the Booking Extranet. The AP explains this as follows.
 
Booking's Privacy Statement, as posted on its website, states which
personal data are processed by Booking as well as the reasons why and the way in which this
are processed. The Privacy Statement states, among other things, that Booking shares data with third parties,
including the “Travel Provider”, or the Trip Provider. That the data is shared with the travel provider
shared via the Extranet is apparent from, among other things, the notification of the infringement on 7 February 2019 and the
view of Booking.4 The Privacy Statement also explicitly states that the processing of the aforementioned
personal data mentioned is done by Booking (Herengracht 597, 1017 CE Amsterdam,
Netherlands).5
 
In addition, Booking determines the implementation of the security of the Extranet by taking
security measures for access control such as “two factor authentication” (of which the code
is also generated by Booking).6 Furthermore, in addition to other security measures, Booking has
set up a data breach reporting procedure for incidents concerning the Extranet.7
 
The AP therefore determines on the basis of the aforementioned that Booking determines the purpose and means for
the processing of personal data relating to reservations made via the platform of
Booking are made, and that via the Extranet (a system used by Booking and
managed) are processed.
 
In its view, Booking has argued on the one hand that Booking is the controller
for the customer data processed in relation to its platform.8 On the other hand, Booking

                                                                        
4 File 20: research report, marginal 17 et seq., opinion marginal 2.3 et seq.
5 Under the heading “Who is responsible for processing personal data via Booking.com and how to reach us?”.
6 Opinion, marginal 2.5.
7 Opinion, marginal numbers 2.6, 3.2 and 3.3.
8 View, marginal 2.2.

 

 

6/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
that the Trip Provider acts as a data controller for the customer data sent via the Extranet
are made available and that Booking is not responsible for
data processing activities of the Trip Providers.9
 
That Trip Providers can also (physically) process personal data in the Extranet,
without prejudice to the fact that Booking is the data controller for the Extranet. And so too
responsible for what happens with the personal data in the Extranet. The argument of
Booking is therefore not successful.
That Booking also sees itself as a controller for the personal data sent via the
Extranet is also apparent from the fact that Booking has committed the infringement in connection with
personal data on February 7, 2019 to the AP and in its view Booking . also states
to be the controller for the customer data processed via its platform.10
 
Based on the foregoing, the AP determines that Booking is the controller in the sense
of Article 4(7) of the GDPR.
 
3.4 Breach Report Violation
 
3.4.1 Introduction
Article 33(1) of the GDPR provides that if a personal data breach has occurred
occurred, the controller without undue delay and, where possible,
no later than 72 hours after becoming aware of it, to the (…) competent supervisory authority
unless the personal data breach is unlikely to pose a risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons. In the event that the notification to the supervisor is not
within 72 hours, it shall be accompanied by a justification for the delay.
 
In this paragraph, the AP will first outline the facts and then assess whether Booking has committed the infringement
connection with personal data should have reported (timely) to the supervisory authority.
 
3.4.2 Facts
 
January 9, 2019
On January 9, 2019, a property 11(I) in the United Arab Emirates reported to a
[CONFIDENTIAL] from Booking by email that a guest has complained about being emailed
was approached by an unknown party posing as an employee of the property with the
notification that their credit card did not work and whether the guest's date of birth or other bank card details
wanted to give up so that a reserved night could be paid in advance. The property manager
asks Booking in his email to investigate the incident now that the property is operating from the
Extranet does not have access to customer e-mail addresses and he thinks that there is likely to be

                                                                        
9 Opinion, marginal number 2.3.
10 View, marginal 2.2.
11 In other words: a Trip Provider.

 

 

7/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
a (data) leak at Booking since the unknown party was aware of the, via the platform of
Booking made, reservation at the accommodation.
 
Email from January 9, 2019 6:00 PM
“Good Afternoon […],
We received a complaint from a guest stating that he had provided his personal information and credit card information to
a ‘stranger’ posing as a Reservations employee of our property […]. In the 1st attachment a person by the name of
[CONFIDENTIAL] had directly email the guest (from a Hotmail account) requesting his credit card and personal info to
pay for his booking. We are not sure if the guest had sent the details over. We got to know when someone from B.com called
the property to check if anyone had sent the email. We contacted the guest via the phone number listed in the reservation
form – he forwarded the [CONFIDENTIAL] email to us. As we do not get guest email address from the extranet, the issue
here is likely to be from B.com. We don't know how this [CONFIDENTIAL] managed to get hold of the guest email and
that he had made a booking at our property from B.com. Can you review and share the outcome with us. Guest has the
perception and understanding that we had leaked the information which is not true. Our brand confidence is at stake here,
so is B.com.
 
Kind regards […]"
 
Attached to the aforementioned e-mail was the e-mail that the data subject had received from the unknown third party
receive. It appears from this email that the unknown third party using the reservation details
tries to obtain personal and/or payment data from the data subject.
 
Email of January 8, 2019 10:32 PM
“Dear sir
My name is […] and this email is regarding your booking in out hotel. We got your email address from your office actually
sir your bank card is not working. Ever time we attempted the payment it on terminal it is asking for card holder date of
birth. Kindly provide us with your date of birth or a different card no so we can take the initial deposit of 1 night in order to
guarantee the booking the rate for 1st night is 450 emarati dirhams.
 
many thanks
[…]
Reservations department”
 
January 13, 2019
On January 13, 2019, the same accommodation (I) reported to the aforementioned [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking that
a similar complaint has been received from another guest. An unknown party had – this time
by telephone – made known to the guest on behalf of Booking, whereby an attempt was made to obtain his/her credit card and
obtain personal data.
 
Email from January 13, 2019 10:18 AM
“Subject: RE: [External Fraud] / Leaked Guest Information / URGENT
Hi […]

 

 

8/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
We receive a complaint from another guest…this time someone claiming to be from B.com (UK number) called the guest
and was trying to get his cc and personal details for 1 night charge.
I am not sure if the guest provided his details, but he contacted us which we clarified the same (similar clarification as our
1st case). We had requested the guest to call B.com instead.
We had taken precautions by changing all our logins (for those who has access) last week Thursday.
Booking no. […]
 
Regards
[…] [CONFIDENTIAL]”
 
January 20, 2019
On January 20, 2019, property I reports that a third guest has complained because he was on the phone
approached with the request to provide his credit card information. The property manager indicates
the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking that given the seriousness of the situation the matter will become
scaled up to headquarters.
 
January 20, 2019 17:14 e-mail
“Subject: RE: [External] Fraud / Leaked Guest Information /URGENT
[…]
Hi […]
We receive another complaint from a guest about someone calling them to get cc details. Below is his booking – we have
advised him to contact B.com.
As it looks serious now, we are escalating the issue to our head office in Singapore.
 
Kind regards,
[…] [CONFIDENTIAL]”
 
On January 20, 2019, a second accommodation reports to Booking that there is “an”
alarming situation with Booking.com reservations”. Several guests who had booked through Booking,
were contacted by telephone with the request to provide their credit card details. Also this accommodation
asks Booking's [CONFIDENTIAL] to investigate.
 
January 20, 2019 11:35 AM email
“Good morning […]
We have an alarming situation with Booking.com reservations. The last couple of days, we have guests reserved through
booking.com, contacting us to inform us that someone from our in-house reservations department called them to get their
credit card details for their reservations. The person who calls the guests knows their reservation details (arrival/departure
etc.). Attached and below you can find more details about this matter.
We have already changed the [CONFIDENTIAL] password as well as my own password.
 
Can you please look into this?
 

 

 

9/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Thank you,
[…]
[CONFIDENTIAL]"
 
Booking applies the policy that suspicions and reports of incidents must be immediately reported
forwarded to the Security Team of Booking.12
The [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking notified by the properties of the
fraudulent acts by an unknown third party have alarmed the Security Team at Booking
January 31, 2019 informed.
On February 4, 2019, the Booking Security Team completed and concluded its first investigation
that Booking's Privacy Team needed to be informed. The research findings of the
Security Team are documented in the aforementioned Security Incident Summary Report of 28 February
2019.13
 
This investigation by the Security Team has shown that 40 accommodations in the United Arab Emirates
Emirates have been victims of social engineering fraud, whereby the personal data of
possibly 4109 people involved have been compromised. An unknown third party has
Impersonated a Booking employee over the phone to obtain the username, password and two-
factor authentication code ("2FA") from the accommodations. With this information, the third party could
party log in to the Extranet of Booking in which reservation details of guests are included.
The Security Team has determined that December 19, 2018 is the start date of the security incident
been. The persons involved were both from Europe (including Great Britain,
France, Ireland, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands) as well as from other parts of the world (including South
Africa, America, Canada and Bahrain).
 
The personal data concerned included first name, surname, address, telephone number,
check-in and check-out date, total price, reservation number, price per night, any correspondence
between accommodation and guest and credit card details regarding 283 data subjects, of which 97 with the
card verification code.
 
On February 4, 2019, the Security Team informed Booking's Privacy Team about the
results of the investigation. All those involved were also informed by Booking on February 4, 2019
brought.14
 
The Booking Privacy Team determined on February 6, 2019 that there was a data breach that
had to be reported to the AP.
 

                                                                        
12 See file 15, Response to a request for information regarding internal policy documents for data breaches.
13 File 9, Responses from Booking to a request for information, Appendix 5.
14 Notification form and opinion, marginal 4.4 under d.

 

 

10/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
On February 7, 2019, Booking submitted a notification to the AP as referred to in Article 33, first paragraph, of the
AVG.15
 
3.4.3 Assessment
Article 33(1) of the GDPR provides that if a personal data breach has occurred
occurred, the controller without undue delay and, where possible,
no later than 72 hours after becoming aware of it, to the (…) competent supervisory authority
unless the personal data breach is unlikely to pose a risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
Before the notification is made, the controller must therefore first
assessed whether there has been a personal data breach. Then it should be
assessed whether the infringement poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
A personal data breach
As the AP established in section 3.4.2, an unknown third party has had access to the
Extranet of Booking and thus gained unauthorized access to the data processed by Booking
data relating to guest reservations at accommodations. Booking does not dispute that either
there was a personal data breach. The AP thus establishes that there is
of a personal data breach within the meaning of Article 4(12) of the GDPR.
 
Risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
After the unauthorized acquisition of the aforementioned personal data, the unknown third party
then attempted to obtain credit card information from
guests who had booked through Booking's online platform. In doing so, the AP not only establishes that
it is likely that the personal data breach poses a risk to rights
and freedoms of natural persons but also that this risk has materialized now the unknown
third party has contacted many, if not hundreds, of those involved to try and get them on
to defraud credit card details on the basis of improper grounds. Due to the infringement of the
confidentiality of the data there was not only a risk of financial loss but also of
identity theft or any other harm. The AP therefore finds that the infringement related to
personal data posed a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
Notification to the competent supervisory authority in accordance with Article 55
Section 3.3 establishes that Booking is the controller. In section 3.1, the AP
determined that it is competent under Article 56 of the GDPR to act as a lead
supervisory authority now that Booking's head office is located in Amsterdam. Booking has
reported the breach to the AP on January 7, 2019. Booking has thus notified the in
competent authority in the present case in accordance with Article 55 of the GDPR.
 

                                                                        
15 File 1, Notification of a personal data breach 7-2-2019. P 5.

 

 

11/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Notification no later than 72 hours after the controller becomes aware of a breach related to
personal data
The Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation
2016/67916 (hereinafter: Guidelines), prepared by the Article 29 Working Party on Data Protection (hereinafter:
WP29), contain an explanation of the reporting obligation(s) in the GDPR and offer a handle on how to deal with various
types of infringements should be dealt with.
 
When exactly a controller can be considered to have become aware of
a particular infringement depends on the circumstances of the specific infringement. According to the WP29,
a controller shall be deemed to have become aware of a breach in connection
with personal data when he has a reasonable degree of certainty that a security incident has occurred
occurred that led to the compromise of personal data.
 
The AP is of the opinion that Booking was aware of the infringement in connection with at least 13 January 2019.
personal data and consider the following to this end.
 
On January 9, 2019, Booking's [CONFIDENTIAL] received a first signal, via email
from a Trip Provider in the United Arab Emirates (accommodation I) that
the person concerned and the Trip Provider had a serious suspicion that a data breach had occurred. The
the person concerned was approached by e-mail on 8 January 2019 by an (unknown) third party who is known
was with the reservation made via the Booking platform and on the basis of that
reservation data tried to obtain more personal data with which supposedly a payment of
an overnight stay could be arranged. From the e-mail of January 8, 2019, which is
included in the file, it appears that it also contained a PDF file with the reservation details. This
pdf file was not submitted by Booking and therefore not included in the file.
 
In the opinion of the AP, the aforementioned incident should have been caused by (the [CONFIDENTIAL] of) Booking
will be forwarded to Booking's Security Team for further investigation now in the email
matter contained the exact reservation details of the person concerned and it was also established that the booking was made through the
Booking platform was created. This is all the more so now that the Trip Provider had already come to the conclusion that
there had to be a security incident and on the basis of the data available to him
had already made an initial assessment. This is also apparent from the information appointed by the accommodation manager
subject of the email: “[External] Fraud / Leaked Guest Information/ URGENT”. The Security Team had
can start an exploratory investigation.
On January 13, 2019, (the same [CONFIDENTIAL] of) Booking received a second signal from
aforementioned Trip Provider. The data subject in question was asked for his personal data by telephone
by someone posing as an employee of Booking and who was aware of the
data subject reservation made via the Booking platform. The property manager has in his e-mail
mail to the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking expressly indicated that the incident is equivalent

                                                                        
16 Guidelines for the reporting of personal data breaches under Regulation 2016/679 Working Party
Data Protection Article 29, last revised and approved on February 6, 2018, 18/NL WP250rev.01.

 

 

12/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
to the previous incident and again believed that there must have been a data breach on the part of
Booking.com
 
The AP is of the opinion that Booking is in any case deemed to have knowledge of the on January 13, 2019.
personal data breach, because with the above information, Booking has a reasonable
had assurance that a security incident has occurred leading to the compromise of
personal data processed by Booking. The Trip Provider's Property Manager
after all, had already concluded that there must have been a security incident with regard to
the Extranet, where personal data of guests was compromised.
 
Given the alarming situation, Booking should have immediately forwarded the incident to the Security Team
of Booking so that an investigation into the extent of the infringement could be carried out, which, however, was
Booking until January 31, 2019 has been neglected.
 
On the basis of the foregoing, the period of 72 . prescribed in Article 33(1) of the GDPR has
hours prior to reporting a breach to the AP, commenced on January 13, 2019. As a result
Booking should have submitted the personal data breach to the AP by January 16, 2019
report. It has been established that Booking did not make this notification until February 7, 2019, so 22 days late.
 
This also applies if the date is 20 January 2019, the date on which next to
accommodation I is also another Trip Provider (accommodation II) in the United Arab Emirates
Emirates has reported similar incidents to the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking. Also in this
email notification subject is boldly capitalized: **SECURITY
BREACH**. In that case, the personal data breach would be 15 days late with the
supervisory authority have been reported.
 
3.4.4 Booking opinion and AP . response
 
Notification of infringement
In its view, Booking has primarily taken the position that there is no question of a
violation as she only became aware of it on February 4, 2019, after completion of the internal investigation
of the infringement, after which it is timely and without undue delay within 72 hours of becoming aware
reported, which according to Booking is in line with Article 33(1) of the GDPR.
 
The AP does not follow this position. As can be seen from the foregoing, the AP has established that Booking on 13
became aware of the infringement in January 2019. It follows that Booking has committed the infringement related to
has not reported personal data in accordance with the provisions of Article 33(1) of the GDPR.
 
Notifications accommodations
With regard to the signal from accommodation I on January 9, 2019, Booking has in its view
argued that the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking had considered at the time that there was no
there was a reason to scale up the report to the Security Team of Booking, because the

 

 

13/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
the person concerned was approached by e-mail. Booking states that e-mail addresses will be in the Extranet
hashed and cannot be extracted from it. Furthermore, Booking argues that the affected
accommodation and the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking would have come to the conclusion together
that “it probably wasn't an incident at Booking”.
 
With regard to the latter, the AP notes that in addition to the fact that no substantiation has been given for this
in the opinion, it is established that the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking has not acted in accordance with its own
Booking protocol, whereby any suspicion of an incident must be immediately passed on to the
Booking security team. The AP believes that despite the fact that e-mail addresses are
hashed in the Extranet, the aforementioned incident should have been forwarded by Booking to the Security
Team. Indeed, the fact that the email in question contained the exact reservation details of the person concerned and
the fact that the booking was made through Booking's platform, the [CONFIDENTIAL] of
Booking should alarm and move to further action.
 
With regard to the incident of January 13, 2019, Booking argued that the [CONFIDENTIAL] in
issue did not see any direct resemblance to the prior incident, thereby not showing to a reasonable degree
assurance that a security incident had occurred at Booking.
 
However, the AP is of the opinion that the fact that the (accommodation manager of the) Trip Provider had already
considered that there was an equivalent incident and that the security incident had to be
have with the Extranet, for which Booking is the controller, means that Booking on that
knew with a reasonable degree of certainty – and therefore had knowledge – that an infringement had occurred
in connection with personal data. Also in this case the exact reservation details were
of the person concerned known to an unknown third party who falsely pretended to be an employee
from Booking.com. At this point, Booking had reasonable assurance of the security incident
where personal data was compromised. It was highly certain that these data
a platform used by Booking for its business activities had been obtained, now as evidenced
the e-mail correspondence could be excluded according to the Trip Provider and the persons involved in question
that a security incident had occurred on their side.
 
Violation of internal reporting obligation
Booking has further argued that it cannot be argued against Booking that the procedure for
security incident reporting, which means that security incidents are reported by the Trip Providers via the
so-called “Partner Portal” must be reported to the Security Team of Booking, by the
accommodations in question17 has been violated. According to Booking, violating that reporting obligation and the
fact that the [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking did not immediately escalate to Booking as
company are opposed. Booking has hereby referred to a decision by the Hungarian
privacy regulator, who would have ruled that negligence from only one part of the
organization cannot be held against the entire organization if appropriate measures were taken
hit.18
                                                                        
17 In the present case, the accommodations in the United Arab Emirates.
18 Hungarian National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information fine decision of 21 May 2019, NAIH/2019/3854.

 

 

14/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
The AP states first and foremost that Booking, as a controller, has an obligation to
alarming signal to investigate a possible breach of the security of
personal data, so that action can be taken in a timely manner and in line with the provisions of the GDPR if
a personal data breach has occurred. According to the AP, this is independent of any
private law agreements that Booking may have made with a third party on that point, such as in
in the present case, the relevant Trip Providers. From paragraph 5.1 of the submitted by Booking
The “Data Incident Response Policy” also shows that all suspicions of incidents, even if they
“third party service providers” as the aforementioned Trip Providers have been reported to Booking, must be immediately
are forwarded to the Security Team of Booking:

“Prompt Reporting
All (suspected) Data Incidents must immediately be reported to the Booking.com security team (“Security”). this
includes Data Incidents notified to Booking.com from any third party service providers or business partners or
other individuals. (…)”.

 
Various data incidents were reported by the accommodations on January 9, 13 and January 20, 2019.
(the [CONFIDENTIAL] of) Booking, which, however, has not led to the – in its own proceedings
recorded - required notification thereof to the Security Team. Already on January 13, 2019, the
[CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking informed of the breach, nevertheless the Security Team is only on 31
notified in January 2019.
 
Insofar as Booking has an appeal with reference to the decision of the Hungarian regulator
want to do on the principle of equality, the AP notes that this case is not only about an infringement
of a completely different order, namely a breach of the confidentiality of personal data by
the same organizational unit (of a government body) and not for a case of “social engineering”
where there is a form of fraud, but also that the DPA in that decision has a different opinion of the
supervisor reads than is outlined by Booking. The late notification in that case of
an infringement as referred to in Article 33(1) of the GDPR because an employee received it too late
is continued, contrary to what Booking suggests, the organization in question is indeed
Hungarian supervisor accused.
 
Personal privacy risk
Booking further argued that the investigation report erroneously identified a risk to the personal
privacy has been assumed without making an analysis of the implemented by Booking
security measures aimed at protecting privacy and removing
adverse consequences and mentioned a number of examples.19
 

                                                                        
19 Examples mentioned: if a data breach occurs, this is generally limited to contact details, without e-mail.
email addresses, and reservation dates; credit card information is stored according to PCI DSS standards; customers are informed
about social engineering and other forms of fraud; data subjects were informed immediately after the data breach was discovered
and has been advised and Booking has indicated that it will compensate all damage suffered.

 

 

15/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP does not follow Booking's last position. As soon as personal data, as in this case, is
end up in an unauthorized person and have been seen, there is already a risk to the rights
and freedoms of natural persons. This risk has also manifested itself in the present case
now that those involved had been approached by an unknown third party who unlawfully had access to the personal data
of those involved. That Booking subsequently promised to pay any financial damage
compensation does not alter the fact that the personal data has ended up in the wrong hands. It
the risk of possible consequences of the infringement is thus not removed.
 
Notification within 72 hours
Booking has further argued that making a report within 72 hours as referred to in Article 33,
first paragraph of the GDPR is not always possible. It can weeks specialized security teams or
months to connect “data points” and conclude that a pattern of facts is indeed a
data breach that must be reported. Furthermore, it would be incorrect and not in accordance with the
AVG if the AP would expect Booking in general only three days to get a
investigate and become aware of a personal data breach. In addition
according to Booking, the WP29 explicitly states in its Guidelines that it may take some time before
a controller can determine the extent of the breaches and
controller is better able to prepare a meaningful report in which several, strongly similar
seeming violations are combined rather than reporting each violation separately. Finally,
Booking argued that the investigation report erroneously considers that Booking does not
has given a valid reason for the (alleged) violation of the 72-hour period. In the notification of
February 7, 2019, clear reasons are given, located in the thorough investigation by Booking,
whereby Booking reiterates that it primarily takes the position that the report was made within 72 hours
after it became aware of the personal data breach.
 
The AP considers the following in this regard.
The AP endorses the view that an investigation into the scope and precise merits of an infringement
may take longer than 72 hours. Because it is not always possible to have all
necessary information about a breach that enables a report to be made that complies with all
requirements laid down in Article 33(3) of the GDPR, the possibility to make a
notification has been included in the GDPR in steps. This possibility is provided for in Article 33(4) of the GDPR
fixed. This does not alter the fact that the notification of the infringement pursuant to Article 33(1) of the
AVG must take place within the legally prescribed period of 72 hours. As in paragraph 3.3.3
already noted, Booking must be deemed to have received notice of the . on January 13, 2019
personal data breach. That the infringement pursuant to Article 33(1) of the GDPR
should have been reported, was then also clear. Booking took too long in this case
waited to make the notification prescribed in Article 33(1) of the GDPR. the thorough
research to which Booking refers in no way justifies the delay of the aforementioned (initial)
notification, which therefore constitutes an unreasonable delay as referred to in Article 33, first paragraph, of the
GDPR.

 

 

16/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Meaningful notification
With regard to what has been argued by Booking with regard to the preparation of a meaningful
report in which several similar infringements are reported together, the AP considers that
the point in the present case is that Booking was already aware of the infringement on 13 January 2019 and
the – whether or not initial – notification should have been made in a timely manner. That there would be several on top of each other
seeming infringements that, according to Booking, could be packaged in one meaningful report, the AP – having regard to
on what has been considered above in paragraph 3.4.3 – not relevant.
 
Delayed notification justification
Booking has argued that outside the Guidelines there are no instructions that indicate
what arguments a delayed notification can be justified and that the AP is a new standard
cannot be applied retroactively. In addition, the AP could have asked for the delay
to be explained in more detail.
 
The AP considers in this regard that there is no question of retroactive application of a new
norm. The regulation included in the GDPR on this point is clear: when there is an infringement in
relating to personal data, it must be completed without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72
hours after becoming aware of it to the supervisory authority. The Guidelines give to the
opinion of the AP interpretation for compliance with the obligation(s) to report included in the GDPR
of infringements; they can by no means be judged as a new standard. By the way, it is all
time on the path of the controller to make a notification that cannot be made in a timely manner,
provide adequate justification for this.
 
Practical implications judgment AP
In its view, Booking has also expressed its concerns about the practical implications of
the judgment of the AP in the investigation report.20 The strict explanation referred to therein, according to
Booking implies that all potential security incidents, where there is a chance that
personal data is compromised, must be reported within 72 hours and that the Security
Team every complaint that comes to Booking – regardless of the manner in which and the content thereof – must be addressed
to research. In addition to an unreasonable and unrealistic administrative burden, this would also
unreasonable and unrealistic financial burden.21 [CONFIDENTIAL]. If all individual
complaints should be investigated immediately, as the AP advocates, would be considerably more
manpower is needed now. Such unreasonable organizational measures, with associated
disproportionate implementation costs, go against the idea behind the security obligation of
Article 32 of the GDPR, according to Booking.
 

                                                                        
20 In paragraph 5 of the opinion.
21 [CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 

17/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP states first and foremost that the GDPR prescribes the obligations to which Booking in the capacity of
controller must comply. Pursuant to Article 32 of the GDPR, a processing
responsible party is obliged to take all appropriate and organizational measures to
ensure a coordinated level of security: the ability to detect, detect and detect a breach in a timely manner
addressing and reporting should be considered an essential part of these measures.22
According to the AP, it does not follow from the investigation report that every potential security incident would
should be reported and that any complaint made to Booking should be addressed by the Security Team
are being investigated. Once a controller becomes aware of a security
incident or has been notified of a potential infringement by another source, the
controller to investigate whether there has been a reporting breach.23 From the “Data
Incident Response Policy” shows that Booking has set up its policy in such a way that suspicions of and
reports of suspected security incidents should be scaled up immediately for review
to the Security Team. That this has not happened in the present case is, in the opinion of the AP
at the expense and risk of Booking. In doing so, the AP once again points to the situation that from the various
reports of the accommodations, almost no other conclusion was possible than that this was the case
of a substantial notifiable breach.
 
Obvious error in report
Booking has argued that the investigation report in paragraph 26 erroneously stated February 2, 2019 as the date
mentions on which the Security Team of Booking recorded its findings, but that date
is not mentioned anywhere else in the documents. The AP assumes that this is an apparent
writing now no indication can be found in the documents for the fact that the
Security Team would have presented its findings on February 2, 2019.
 
Superfluously
Although this is not further discussed in this case, Booking has indicated in its opinion that
value data security and immediate action on data breaches. She thinks amply
to meet and even exceed the expectations of Article 34 of the GDPR by data subjects
about data breaches even when it is unlikely that a major risk to the rights and
freedoms of those involved. The AP welcomes such actions but emphasizes that this is Booking
does not discharge from the other obligations included in the GDPR, such as those referred to in Article 33(1) of the
GDPR laid down reporting obligation.
 
3.4.5 Conclusion
In view of the foregoing, the AP is of the opinion that Booking Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR from 16
January 2019 through February 6, 2019, now that Booking has breached the infringement related to
has not reported personal data to the AP in a timely manner, without undue delay.
 
                                                                        
22 See Guidelines p. 14/15.
23 See in detail the Guidelines of the WP29.

 

 

18/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

4. Fine

4.1 Introduction
 
Due to the violation established above, the AP uses its power to
Booking to impose a fine on the basis of Article 58, second paragraph, preamble and under i and Article 83, fourth
paragraph of the GDPR, read in conjunction with Article 14, paragraph 3, of the UAVG. The AP uses the
Fines Policy Rules 2019 (hereinafter: Fines Policy Rules).24
 
In the following, the AP will first briefly explain the fine system, followed by the motivation
of the fine in the present case.
 
4.2 Fine Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019 (Fining Policy Rules 2019)
 
Pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, preamble and under i and Article 83, fourth paragraph, of the GDPR, read in
in connection with article 14, third paragraph, of the UAVG, the AP is authorized to give Booking in the event of a
violation of Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR to impose an administrative fine of up to € 10,000,000 or
up to 2% of total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, whichever is higher.
 
The AP has established fine policy rules regarding the interpretation of the aforementioned power to
imposing an administrative fine, including determining the amount thereof.25
 
Pursuant to Article 2, under 2.1, of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the provisions with regard to violation
of which the AP can impose an administrative fine not exceeding the amount of € 10,000,000 or, for
a company, up to 2% of the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, if this figure
higher, classified in Appendix 1 as Category I, Category II or Category III.
 
In Annex 1, Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR is classified in category III.
 
Pursuant to Article 2, under 2.3, the AP sets the basic fine for violations classified in category III
within the following fine range: €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €525,000.
 
Pursuant to Article 6, the AP determines the amount of the fine by increasing the amount of the basic fine (up to
at most the maximum of the bandwidth of the fine category linked to a violation) or
down (to at least the minimum of that bandwidth). The basic fine will be
increased or decreased depending on the extent to which the factors referred to in Article 7 to that end
give rise to.
 
Pursuant to Article 7, without prejudice to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the General Administrative Law Act

                                                                        
24 Stct. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.
25 Stct. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.

 

 

19/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
(Awb) taking into account the factors derived from Article 83, second paragraph, of the GDPR, in the
Policy rules mentioned under a to k:
the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement
processing in question as well as the number of data subjects affected and the extent of the damage suffered by them
injury;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
c. the measures taken by the controller […] to address the data subjects suffered
limit damage;
d. the extent to which the controller […] is responsible given the technical and
organizational measures that he has carried out in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR;
e. previous relevant breaches by the controller […];
f. the extent to which there has been cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and
limit the possible negative consequences thereof;
g. the categories of personal data to which the breach relates;
h. the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular whether, and
if so, to what extent, the controller […] has notified the breach;
i. compliance with the measures referred to in Article 58, paragraph 2, of the GDPR, insofar as they are previously
with regard to the controller […] in question with regard to the same
matter have been taken;
j. adherence to approved codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or of
approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR; and
k. any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial gains made, or losses avoided, arising directly or indirectly from the infringement
result.
 
Pursuant to Article 9 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, when determining the fine, the AP will, if necessary,
taking into account the financial circumstances of the offender. In case of reduced or
If the offender has insufficient financial capacity, the AP can further mitigate the fine to be imposed if,
after application of Article 8.1 of the policy rules, determination of a fine within the fine range
of the next lower category would, in its opinion, nevertheless lead to a disproportionately high fine.
 
4.3 Fine amount
 
4.3.1. Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
Pursuant to Article 7, opening words and under a, of the Fine Policy Rules, the AP takes into account the nature, the
seriousness and duration of the infringement. In assessing this, the AP takes into account, among other things, the nature, size
or the purpose of the processing as well as the number of data subjects affected and the extent of the processing by them
damages suffered.
 
The protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right.
Under Article 8(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 16,
paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), everyone has the right to

 

 

20/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
protection of his personal data. The principles and rules concerning the protection of
natural persons when processing their personal data must be in accordance with
their fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular their right to protection of
personal data. The GDPR aims to contribute to the creation of an area of freedom,
security and justice and of economic union, as well as to economic and social progress, the
strengthening and convergence of economies within the internal market and the well-being of natural
persons. The processing of personal data must serve people. The right to
protection of personal data is not absolute, but must be considered in relation to
to its function in society and must conform to the principle of proportionality against other
fundamental rights are weighed up. Any processing of personal data must be fair and lawful
to happen. The personal data must be sufficient, relevant and limited to:
what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. Personal data must be
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security and confidentiality of that data,
also to prevent unauthorized access to or use of personal data and
the equipment used for processing.
 
Notification of breaches should be seen as a means of ensuring compliance with the related rules
to improve the protection of personal data. If an infringement in connection with
personal data takes place or has taken place, this may result in physical, material or
immaterial damage to natural persons or any other economic or social disadvantage for
the person in question. Therefore, as soon as the controller becomes aware of
a breach of personal data the supervisor without delay and if possible within 72 hours
notify the personal data breach. The supervisor is thus
able to properly perform its duties and powers, as laid down in the GDPR.
 
Not only did Booking fail to promptly report the personal data breach,
but has on several occasions, namely on January 9, 13 and 20, 2019, while having immediate action
may be expected, has been sitting still, resulting in a (very) unreasonably delayed notification at
the AP. It has also become apparent that instead of making a notification in steps, Booking consciously
has chosen to conduct a thorough investigation before making the required report to
the supervisory authority. This is not in line with the regulation as laid down in the GDPR.
 
The investigation conducted by Booking's Security Team has shown that 4109
stakeholders are affected. These were hotel guests, who booked hotel stays via the Booking platform,
at 40 different accommodations, had made reservations. By committing "social"
engineering” fraud are credit card in addition to name and address details and data regarding hotel reservations
data ended up with unauthorized third parties. This is sensitive data that is in the hands of
unauthorized persons can lead to financial or other disadvantage.
 
Considering the nature of the personal data, the number of personal data, the number of data subjects affected,
the duration of the violation as well as the importance of a timely notification to the supervisor within 72

 

 

21/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Intentional or negligent nature of the infringement (culpability)

 
hours, in the opinion of the AP there is a serious violation, but in this case the AP does not see any
reason to increase or decrease the basic fine.
 
4.3.2
Pursuant to Article 5:46, second paragraph, of the Awb, when imposing an administrative fine, the AP
into account the extent to which this can be blamed on the offender. Pursuant to Article 7(b)
of the 2019 Fine Policy Rules, the AP takes into account the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement.
 
Article 33(1) of the GDPR prescribes that a personal data breach without
unreasonable delay must be reported and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after the
controller has taken cognizance of this. The Netherlands has a duty to report as such
already since 1 January 2016, when this standard was introduced in the Personal Data Protection Act
(Wbp).26
The AP considers the knowledge that a standard addressee, such as Booking in this case, has of the
applicable laws and regulations is deemed to have, on the basis of
market parties bear their own responsibility to comply with the law.27
The AP has also amply informed market parties about the applicable laws and regulations, so that
It can be assumed that Booking was also aware of this. In addition, the media has extensively
paid attention to the obligation to report data breaches.
 
From the legal framework set out above in conjunction with the applicable guidelines of the
WP29, which Booking could have taken cognizance of before the infringement, follows in the opinion of the
AP sufficiently clear that Booking should have reported the breach to the AP in a timely manner and that without
unreasonable delay, but in any case should have been made within 72 hours after January 13, 2019.
Moreover, the notification to the AP could have been made conditionally, in the sense that the notification
could be supplemented later. This option is expressly provided in the GDPR.
If doubt had arisen about the scope of the commandment, then, also according to settled case law,
apply that a professional and multinational operating market party such as Booking may be
requires it to be duly informed or to be informed about the restrictions to which it is
behaviors, so that from the outset she could have aligned her behavior with the
scope of that commandment.28
 
In the opinion of the AP, it does not exculpate Booking as an independent carrier of rights and obligations that
a [CONFIDENTIAL] of Booking has violated Booking's own protocol that
prescribes any suspicion of an incident to be immediately forwarded to the Security Team for assessment.
This is attributable to Booking.
 

                                                                        
26 In Article 34a(1) of the Wbp.
27 Cf. CBb 25 June 2013, ECLI:NL:CBB:2013:4, r.o. 2.3, CBb January 25, 2017, ECLI:NL:CBB:2017:14, r.o. 5.2, CBb March 8, 2017,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2017:91, r.o. 6.
28 Cf. CBb 22 February 2012, ECLI:NL:CBB:2012:BV6713, r.o. 4.3, CBb September 19, 2016, ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:290, r.o. 8.6., CBb 19
September 2016, ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:372, b.r. 6.3.

 

 

22/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

Damage Reduction Measures

Booking has reported 22 days late. The AP considers this to be culpable. However, the AP sees no reason
to pay the basic amount of the fine pursuant to Article 7(b) of the 2019 Fine Policy Rules
increase or decrease.
 
4.3.3
Pursuant to Article 7, under c, of the Fine Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the
controller has taken measures to prevent the damage suffered by data subjects
to limit.
 
Booking has put forward in its view that it has various concrete recovery actions
taken to limit any damage to those involved. This is how Booking informed those involved
and advised on taking damage mitigation measures. Furthermore, Booking has prepared itself
declares to compensate any damage suffered or to be suffered by those involved. Finally,
Booking immediately notified affected accommodations and alerts on .'s platform
Booking placed.
 
The AP believes that although Booking has failed to report the breach to the
supervisor, Booking is to the credit that it has taken the aforementioned measures and is prepared
declares to compensate for any damage. The fact that Booking has ultimately acted energetically on this point
occurred, so that the harmful consequences for those involved are most likely to be limited
remained, the AP takes into account when determining the amount of the fine.
 
In view of the measures taken by Booking in response to the infringement to prevent the damage,
to limit the data subjects involved, the AP sees reason to adjust the basic amount of the fine pursuant to Article 7,
under c of the 2019 Fine Policy Rules by €50,000.
 
4.3.4
Furthermore, the AP sees no reason to change the basic amount of the fine on the basis of the other provisions in Article 7 of the
Circumstances referred to in the Penalty Policy Rules 2019, to the extent applicable in the present case,
to increase or decrease.
 
The AP sets the fine for violation of Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR in view of the
7 of the GDPR fixed at € 475,000.
 
4.3.5
With regard to the imposition of an administrative fine, Booking has primarily
argued that the imposition of an administrative fine would not be proportionate. By Booking is therewith
referred to fines imposed by the for violations of Article 33(1) of the GDPR
Lithuanian, Hungarian and Hamburg Authorities.29 Booking takes the position that in the context of

View Booking and response AP

Other circumstances

                                                                        
29 Paragraph 9.2, under a, of the opinion.

 

 

23/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
the idea of harmonization for similar offenses within Europe should be equal fines
imposed.
 
There are currently no common principles for the calculation of
fines agreed. In this way, the AP independently uses the
Fine policies for calculating fines. In addition, the AP assesses this case on its own
its own merits and thus to the specific facts and circumstances of this case. No need to argue
that these are different from case to case and therefore not comparable. Finally, the Booking
fine decisions of other privacy supervisors put forward in its view have not been effected
came via the so-called coherence mechanism, as laid down in chapter 7 of the GDPR, and is
the AP is therefore not bound by those decisions and not obliged to act in the present case
to impose a fine of the same amount.
 
Booking has also argued that imposing an administrative fine would be contrary to the law
lex certa principle, because clear guidelines from the AP and the European Committee for
Data protection for motivating a delayed notification of a data breach is missing.
 
The AP also does not share this view of Booking and refers to what is stated in paragraphs 3.4.4 and
4.3.2 of this decision has been considered.
 
Finally, Booking has argued (more) in the alternative that if the AP nevertheless decides to impose a fine
lay it down pursuant to Article 6 jo. 8.1 of the Fine Policy Rules should be reduced to the
lowest fine in category II.
 
With regard to the nature, seriousness and duration of the violation, Booking has argued briefly that the
preventive and corrective actions taken by Booking the number of people affected and the
limited the extent of the damage.
 
With reference to paragraph 4.3.1, the AP sees no reason to waive the decision on this basis
imposing an administrative fine or reducing the amount of the fine.
 
As to the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement, Booking has argued that the
violation does not result from any intent or negligence on the part of Booking and refers to the technical
and organizational measures taken to prevent social engineering incidents and
to limit consequences.
  
The AP rejects this position. As stated in section 4.3.2, the AP is of the opinion that
there is a negligence attributable to Booking. The AP sees no reason in this
increase or decrease the basic fine amount.
 

 

 

24/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
With regard to the measures taken to limit the damage, Booking states that the technical and
organizational measures it has taken are appropriate and may even meet the requirements of the GDPR
surpass.
 
As discussed above in section 4.3.3, the AP sees this as a reason to
basic fine.
 
With regard to the degree of responsibility in view of the booking made by Booking on the basis of Articles 25 and
32 of the GDPR, Booking has argued that the technical and organizational measures
Booking systems and organization are designed in such a way that the principles of data protection
can be implemented effectively, with Booking reiterating that in view of the affected
measures and the nature of the incident cannot be held liable for the data breach and the
alleged violation.
 
The AP does not share this view. A professional party such as Booking may, partly in view of the nature and
scope of processing, are expected to comply with the standards applicable to it
verified and comply with it. As previously considered in section 4.3.2 of this decision, Booking is fully
held responsible for the violation. That is why the AP sees no reason to impose the fine
to lower.
 
With regard to previous relevant breaches of the GDPR, Booking has argued that it has no prior
has received messages from the AP about alleged violations of Article 33(1) of the GDPR.
 
The AP does not see why this position of Booking should lead to a reduction of the
basic fine amount. The fact that the AP has not previously written to Booking for an identical
violation does not lead to the determination that a reduction of the fine is eligible.
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
With regard to the cooperation between Booking and the AP in order to prevent the alleged violation
and mitigate its potential negative impact, Booking has argued that it
has fully cooperated with the AP by answering all questions in a timely manner and if the
AP had asked for a further explanation of the delay in reporting, this explanation would be
given.
 
The AP sees no reason in this to reduce the fine. The AP is of the opinion that the
Booking's cooperation has not gone beyond its legal obligation to comply with Article 33,
first paragraph, of the GDPR. Booking has therefore not cooperated with the AP in a special way.
 
With regard to the other factors, Booking has argued briefly that the data does not
relate to special categories of personal data or a vulnerable group of persons,
Booking has been completely transparent to those involved and the AP and has the data breach itself at the AP
reported. Finally, Booking argued that if it had made its report to the AP earlier, this

 

 

25/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
would not have led to other measures on the part of Booking or further mitigation of the risks to the
privacy of those involved. No person involved has suffered any disadvantage
by the time of the notification, according to Booking.
 
The AP does not follow Booking's view in this either. Despite the fact that the infringement, to the extent that we
know, has not affected any special personal data, Booking has independently involved parties
informed and the (financial) consequences for those involved have been limited, the AP sees due to the seriousness
of the violation and the culpability of Booking no reason to continue the fine
to lower. The AP refers to paragraphs 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 for the reasons for this.
 
4.3.6 Proportionality and statutory maximum fine
Finally, on the basis of Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the Awb (principle of proportionality), the AP assesses whether the
applying its policy for determining the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome. Applying the principle of proportionality
According to the 2019 Fine Policy Rules, the AP entails that, if necessary, when determining the fine
takes into account the financial circumstances of the offender.
 
In view of all that has been considered above, the AP is of the opinion that the amount of the fine to be imposed does not exceed
leads to a disproportionate outcome. In addition, the present decision was reached through the
AGV prescribed coherence mechanism. The other (involved) regulators in Europe have
endorsed the judgment of the AP.
 
The AP sees no reason to assume that Booking will be fined € 475,000 in view of its
financial position could not bear.
 
4.4 Conclusion
 
The AP sets the total fine at € 475,000.
 

 

 

 

 

26/27



 

Date
Dec 10, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

5. Operative part

fine
 
The AP imposes an administrative fine on Booking for violation of Article 33, first paragraph, of the GDPR
amounting to € 475,000 (in words: four hundred and seventy-five thousand euros).30
 
 

Yours faithfully,
Authority Personal Data,

 
 
 
drs. C.E. Mur
board member
 
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can return it within six weeks of the date of dispatch of the
decide to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
In accordance with article 38 of the UAVG, submitting a notice of objection suspends the operation of the
decision to impose the administrative fine.
To submit a digital objection, see www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objection
against a decision, at the bottom of the page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
The address for submission on paper is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ Den Haag.
State 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'objection' in the title of your letter.
In your notice of objection, write at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your notice of objection;
- the reference mentioned in this letter (case number); or attach a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you do not agree with this decision;
- your signature.
 
 
 
 

                                                                        
30 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).
 

 

 

27/27

