1(20)

Apotea AB
 

Diary number:
DI-2021-774

Date:
2023-03-13

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation
- Apotea AB's camera surveillance

Content
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision ................................................ ............................2
Statement of the supervisory matter ............................................... ........................................2
Background ................................................. ................................................ ...........2
What emerged in the case ............................................. ..............................2
Justification of the decision .............................................. ................................................... ....4
The extent of the IMY's review of the matter ........................................... ................4
Which regulations apply to Apotea's camera surveillance? ........................................4
The Camera Surveillance Act ................................................. ..........................4
The Data Protection Ordinance ................................................... ..........................4
Does Apotea need permission for the current camera surveillance? ........................4
Does Apotea have a legal basis for its camera surveillance? ..........................................5
Monitoring for the purpose of managing and controlling employees ........................7
Monitoring for the purpose of handling incidents and tracking medicines ....................7
Surveillance for the purpose of preventing, uncovering and investigating crime ..........................9
Monitoring for the purpose of providing IT support ........................................11
Monitoring for the purpose of checking goods receipt ...................................12
Obligation to disclose and obligation to provide information ............................................... .......13
Obligation to provide information according to the Camera Surveillance Act .....................................14
Obligation to provide information according to the data protection regulation .....................................14
Choice of intervention .............................................. ................................................17
How to appeal ............................................... ................................................ .....20
 

 

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

2(20)

 

 
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority states that Apotea AB processes personal data in
violation of Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation1 by not meeting the requirement to
information to the registered regarding camera surveillance at the company's logistics center
at Tjusarvägen 40 in Morgongåva.

The Privacy Protection Authority gives Apotea AB a reprimand according to article 58.2 b i
the data protection regulation for the established violation.

The Swedish Data Protection Authority instructs Apotea AB to take measures to
ensure that

1. that on the camera surveillance signs at the facility in Morgongåva is available

contact details for the company and a clear reference to each external visitor
can access additional information, and

2. that the second information layer for employees contains information about all of them

rights referred to in Article 13.2 b and that the information does not express
that the data subjects' rights are limited in time or subject to formal requirements
in a way that lacks support in the data protection regulation.

The measures must have been taken no later than four weeks after this decision came into force.
Account of the supervisory matter
Background

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority (IMY) has taken note of information in the media that is valid
that Apotea AB (hereinafter "Apotea" or "the company") operates camera surveillance at its
logistics center at Tjusarvägen 40, Morgongåva. In the media reporting, it has among
other claims have been made that Apotea uses surveillance cameras to supervise work and
control how employees perform their tasks. IMY has therefore initiated supervision of
Apotea in order to investigate the company's camera surveillance at the logistics center.

What emerged in the case

Apotea has essentially stated the following. Apotea conducts camera surveillance at
the logistics center but believes that the media reporting has given a misleading picture of
the surveillance.

Apotea conducts camera surveillance in the premises with a number of cameras which are divided into
"business cameras", "local cameras" and "still camera". The business cameras
used for the purpose of handling incidents and tracking medicines. The majority of
the operational cameras are also used for IT support. The local cameras are used in
purpose of preventing, preventing, investigating and detecting crime. The still camera is used for

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regarding the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on the cancellation of
directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

3(20)

 

logistics and business-related purposes. Camera surveillance is only used for the above
stated purposes and never for work management or control of individual employees.

All cameras except the still camera monitor with image recording.
Real-time monitoring only takes place with the operational cameras used for IT
support and then only for a reason, when a case has been escalated to IT
support department. The still camera takes a still image every 15 minutes, which is deleted when
the next still image is taken.

Apotea has stated that surveillance is supported in all cases according to Article 6.1 f i
data protection regulation. Regarding the surveillance for the purpose of handling incidents and
track medicines, Apotea has stated that there are requirements that follow from law, regulation and
The Swedish Medicines Agency's special regulations which mean that Apotea has an obligation to
take safeguards to ensure that medicines are handled safely and not
disappears or is delivered to the wrong end customer. Camera surveillance is necessary to
Apotea must be able to fulfill the legal requirements regarding safety that are set on
the business. The camera surveillance also constitutes an important public and
public interest to ensure a functioning pharmacy business because access
to medicine is essential for both individuals and public health in general. Part in
this interest is that medicines are not abused. There is also a public interest in
those who conduct pharmacy operations handle medicines in a responsible and safe manner
way and that any situations where medicines end up astray can be sorted out.
Apotea has implemented several security measures to avoid that
drug-related incidents occur and the camera surveillance is applied as one
last option for tracking medicines or identifying wrongly packaged or wrongly delivered
drug.

The majority of the operational cameras are also used as visual support for the company's
internal IT hotline in case of technical problems in production. Because Apotea conducts
business that involves responsibility for delivering vital medicine around the clock is
it is of great importance that the company can remedy technical problems immediately at all times
the day. Access to materials for these purposes is very limited and is provided only
as a last option when other remedial measures in place have not been
successful.

The local cameras are used as support in the company's crime prevention work and constitute
a complement to other measures taken to deal with crime.
The camera surveillance is partly used to prevent unauthorized persons from entering
the premises and to deter such intrusions, partly to guard the particularly vulnerable
areas and/or places where pilferable goods/medicines are handled.
The pharmacy industry is vulnerable to crime, especially due to the availability of classified narcotics
preparation. In the premises, among other things, goods and medicines (including narcotic
medicines) that are particularly prone to theft. Apotea has stated that the company's
warehouse operations have been subject to theft since 2011 and that the logistics center in
Morgongåva has similarly been exposed to crime since the company took office
the premises in 2018. It appears from the company's submitted incident report that it has
two police-reported crimes have occurred at the site since the company took over the premises. In addition
have several suspicious incidents occurred that have not been reported to the police, for example have
empty packaging found where theft has been suspected.

The still image camera is used to take a still image of the logistics center every 15 minutes
delivery area and is only used to determine how large a portion of the delivery area is
available for future deliveries of goods. Individuals may appear on

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

4(20)

 

certain still images in connection with a delivery, but the company considers that this only
rarely happens.
Justification of the decision
The extent of IMY's review of the case

The Data Protection Ordinance and the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200) contain a large
number of rules that must be followed in connection with the processing of personal data by
camera surveillance. Within the framework of this supervisory matter, IMY does not test all the rules
and issues that may arise during such personal data processing as
the camera surveillance in question in the case entails. IMY's review of the matter is
limited to the questions of whether Apotea has fulfilled the requirement of legal basis according to
the data protection regulation, if the monitoring is subject to a permit according to
the Camera Surveillance Act and whether Apotea has fulfilled the disclosure obligation and
the duty to provide information according to the Camera Surveillance Act and the Data Protection Ordinance.

Which regulations apply to Apotea's camera surveillance?

Camera surveillance is a form of personal data processing. If and in which
the extent to which camera surveillance is permitted is regulated in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance act which supplements the data protection regulation.

The Camera Surveillance Act
Section 4 of the Camera Surveillance Act states that the law applies to camera surveillance according to Section 3
takes place with equipment available in Sweden. According to § 3 § 1 of the Camera Surveillance Act is intended
with camera surveillance that a television camera, another optical-electronic instrument or
a comparable equipment, without being operated on the site is used on such
means that involve long-term or regularly repeated personal surveillance.

The surveillance that Apotea conducts at the logistics center in Morgongåva takes place with
equipment that is in Sweden and constitutes camera surveillance according to § 3 § 1
the camera surveillance law. This means that the provisions of the Camera Surveillance Act
applies to the camera surveillance.

The Data Protection Regulation
According to Article 2.1, the Data Protection Regulation shall, among other things, be applied to the processing of
personal data that is fully or partially processed automatically.

Article 4.1 of the data protection regulation states that any information relating to a
identified or identifiable natural person is personal data. According to Article 4.2 refers
with processing an action or combination of actions regarding personal data,
for example collection, registration, storage, reading and deletion.

If a surveillance camera captures an identifiable person or someone else
personal data in a picture must therefore follow the rules in the data protection regulation. Since
Apotea films identifiable people with their cameras applies
the provisions of the data protection regulation for camera surveillance.

Does Apotea need permission for the current camera surveillance?

According to Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act, permission is required for camera surveillance of a location
the public has access if the surveillance is to be carried out during the performance of a task by

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

5(20)

 

public interest that follows from law or other constitution, collective agreement or decision that
announced with the support of law or other constitution.

Apotek performs a task of public interest in the sense referred to in
Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act.2 Permits for camera surveillance are admittedly required according to
Section 9, point ten of the Camera Surveillance Act, not in the case of surveillance in a shop where it
pharmacy operations are carried out, if the purpose of the surveillance is to prevent, prevent or
detect criminal activity or investigate or prosecute crime. The one in question
however, the camera surveillance does not refer to shop premises and takes place partly for purposes other than that
fight crime. What will be decisive for whether Apotea needs permission for
the camera surveillance is therefore if the surveillance refers to places where the public has access
access.

The expression "place to which the public has access" refers to places where people can
thought to reside and which are not individuals. Examples of places where the public has
access is spaces in shops, department stores and banks, unless this is the case
spaces for staff, storage of goods, offices, maintenance, operation, etc. (prop.
1989/90:119 pp. 17 and 44, prop. 1997/98:64 p. 54). The assessment of the public
have access to the place must be done based on the circumstances of the individual case (prop.
2012/13:115 p. 34). Circumstances that may have significance in this examination are among
other, the character of the place, the circle of people the activity is aimed at and
the presence of devices that physically prevent someone from getting to it
monitored the site (see RÅ 2010 ref. 35). As far as the circle of people is concerned, this one can
consists either of the own staff or of outsiders as per agreement
has to deliver goods or to carry out work. If, however, anyone has access
to the premises, they cannot be considered reserved for a limited circle of people (SOU
1987:74 p. 114). In practice, consideration has also been given to whether there is an opportunity for the public
to get to the place on your own or if the place is only accessible to the public
after authorized personnel have prepared them for access (see the Court of Appeal in Stockholm's judgment on
2 December 2015 in case no. 3168-3197-15).

Apotea's camera surveillance takes place mainly indoors of designated areas
for the company's staff and where the public obviously does not have access. Certain
Indoor surveillance does indeed take place in connection with the premises' entrance, but this is according to
Apotea's tasks - in addition to staff - only authorized external visitors who have
access to the guarded area. Any activity aimed at the public
is also not conducted on site. IMY therefore assesses that the investigation in the case does not yield
support for other than the camera surveillance that Apotea operates indoors
places to which the public does not have access. Regarding camera surveillance that takes place
outdoors refers to this fenced area which is intended for staff and outsiders
who will deliver or pick up goods. IMY assesses that the investigation in the case does not yield
support for other than that these cameras also monitor places where the public does not have
access.

In summary, the current surveillance does not concern places where the public has access
access. Apotea therefore does not need permission for the surveillance.

Does Apotea have a legal basis for its camera surveillance?

In order for Apotea's camera surveillance to be permitted, it is required that the regulations in
the data protection regulation is followed. This means, among other things, that Apotea must have a legal
basis for the surveillance. The company has stated that the legal basis for the surveillance

2 Prop. 2019/20:109 p. 32 f.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

6(20)

 

is Article 6.1 f of the data protection regulation, the so-called balancing of interests. The
there are three conditions that must be met for this to be the case.

The first condition is that the interests that the surveillance intends to protect
must constitute legitimate interests of the personal data controller or a third party
party. Not all conceivable interests that could be achieved or protected through
camera surveillance may be considered justified. A legitimate interest is an interest
which, in general, enjoys the protection of the legal order or is otherwise considered legitimate, ethical
or defensible. An interest protected by EU law or relevant national law
must, for example, be regarded as legitimate.3 A legitimate interest can be a
legal, financial or non-material interest.4 The legitimate interest must be
real and the need must be current which means that it must not be fictitious or
speculatively.5

The second condition is that the surveillance is necessary for a purpose relating to it
justified interest. This means that the legitimate interest cannot reasonably
protected as effectively by other means as to a lesser extent
encroaches on the basic freedoms and rights of the data subjects, in particular the right to
protection of privacy and the right to protection of personal data according to articles 7 and 8 i
EU Charter on Fundamental Rights (2012/C 326/02).6 At the same time, it follows from
practice that the necessity criterion can be considered fulfilled if it contributes to efficiency. 7 Av
practice also follows that the requirement of necessity must be tested together with the principle
on data minimization according to article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation which prescribes
that the personal data collected must be adequate, relevant and not for
extensive in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.8

The third condition is that the data subject's fundamental freedoms and rights
(the privacy interest) does not outweigh the legitimate interest such as surveillance
intends to protect (the security interest). The data controller must evaluate
the risks of infringement of the data subject's rights, and the decisive criterion is
the intensity of the infringement for the rights and freedoms of the data subject.9 The intensity can
among other things, is defined based on the type of information that is collected
(information content), the extent (information density, spatial and geographical
extent), the number of affected data subjects, either as a specific number or as one
proportion of the population concerned, the situation in question, the actual of the data subject
interests, alternative methods and the nature and scope of the data.10 Furthermore, it must
account is taken of the type of personal data processing in question and how this is done
concretely takes place, whereby particular consideration must be given to how many people have access to
the personal data and the forms of access to these.11 When balancing between
the data subject's privacy interest and surveillance interest must also be taken into account
reasonable expectations at the time and in connection with its processing
personal data.12

 

3 See Öman, Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) etc. JUNO ed. 2, the commentary to Article 6.1 f, under the heading
"Legitimate interests".
4 European Data Protection Board (EDPB) guidelines 3/2019 for the processing of personal data through video devices,
version 2.0, adopted on 29 January 2020, paragraph 18.
5 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 20.
6 Judgment of the European Court of Justice in case C-708/18 TK, paragraph 47.
7 ECJ judgment in case C-524/06 Huber, paragraph 62.
8 Judgment of the European Court of Justice in case C-708/18 TK, paragraph 48.
9 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 32.
10 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 32.
11 The judgment of the European Court of Justice in case C-708/18 TK, paragraph 57.
12 Recital 47 of the data protection regulation and the judgment of the European Court of Justice in case C-708/18 TK, paragraph 58.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

7(20)

 

All three conditions must be met for camera surveillance for a specific purpose
must have a legal basis. Because Apotea's camera surveillance is done for several purposes shall
the test is done individually for each purpose.

Surveillance for the purpose of supervising and controlling employees
In the media reporting that IMY took part in before the supervision of Apotea began, it was done
the fact that the company uses surveillance cameras to continuously manage work
staff and control how employees perform their duties. Such
surveillance normally lacks a legal basis in Article 6 of the Data Protection Regulation. Pharmacy
however, has stated that camera surveillance is never used for work management or control
of individual employees. In addition to the information in the media, neither has it in the investigation
has come to light something else that suggests that monitoring took place in the manner specified in
media. IMY thus states that the investigation in the case does not support that Apotea
have used camera surveillance for this purpose. There is therefore no reason to reassess
Apotea had a legal basis for camera surveillance for the purpose of directing or controlling work
employees.

Monitoring for the purpose of handling incidents and tracking medicines

Does Apotea have a legitimate interest in handling incidents and tracking medicines?
IMY initially has to take a position on whether it is a legitimate interest for Apotea to
manage drug-related incidents and track lost drugs. It can
it is established that Apotea is obliged to follow the rules contained in the law, regulation and
The regulations of the Swedish Medicines Agency and which regulate pharmacy operations and
drug management. This means, among other things, that trade in pharmaceuticals must be conducted
in such a way that the medicines do not harm people, property or the environment and so on
that the quality of the medicines does not deteriorate.13 It is also required that the business
premises must be suitable for their purpose and designed and furnished so that good quality
on medicines is ensured and maintained and that a high level of safety at
pharmaceutical handling is guaranteed.14 Whoever conducts retail trade in pharmaceuticals must
also exercise special control (own control) over the retail trade and operations in
otherwise and ensure that there is a self-monitoring program suitable for the business.15 It
means, among other things, that deviations and deficiencies in the handling of medicines or
the supply of medicines and the measures taken in connection with these
must be documented, compiled and evaluated on an ongoing basis.16 Outpatient pharmacy
must have a systematic way of working to identify and manage deviations and deficiencies in
the business, for example deficiencies in the supply of medicines which can result in a
customer does not receive their medicine.17 When a deviation or deficiency has been identified, it should
urgently handled and investigated. Initially, it should be investigated what has happened and
what possible consequences it has entailed. 18

In light of the legal obligations Apotea has with regard to ensuring
correct drug management and following up and dealing with deviations, IMY assesses that
Apotea has a legitimate interest in dealing with drug-related incidents and
track lost medication.

 

13 ch. 1 § 2 Act (2009:336) on trade in pharmaceuticals.
14 ch. 2 Section 6, second point of the Act on trade in pharmaceuticals and Section 10 of the Swedish Medicines Agency's regulations on retail trade
at outpatient pharmacies (LVFS 2009:9).
15 ch. 2 Section 6, point eight, Act on trade in pharmaceuticals.
16 Section 22 of the Swedish Medicines Agency's regulations on retail trade at outpatient pharmacies (LVFS 2009:9).
17 The Swedish Medicines Agency's guidance to LVFS 2009:9, version 5, February 2022, p. 20.
18 The Swedish Medicines Agency's guidance to LVFS 2009:9, version 5, February 2022, p. 21.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

8(20)

 

Is the camera surveillance necessary?
The question then is whether Apotea's camera surveillance is necessary to deal with incidents
and track medications. Apotea has outlined alternative control measures to
detect incidents and track medicines. Despite these measures, it occurs according to
Apotea incidents that cannot be remedied only with the help of the alternative
the measures. Camera surveillance has then been used as a last option to locate
prescription bags and identify if packages need to be recalled from shipping companies.

Apotea has stated that the company only guards limited parts of the premises and
only such areas where the guarding is specifically required with regard to
identified purposes. The investigation also shows that the purpose of the camera surveillance
handling incidents and tracking drugs is limited to surfaces where drugs
handled and packaged or areas directly adjacent to such surfaces. Since
operations take place around the clock, the cameras are active throughout the day.

According to IMY, the investigation supports the fact that alternative measures are not sufficient to
achieve the purpose of the surveillance. The camera surveillance is used as a last resort
alternative when other measures are not sufficient and surveillance is limited to
areas that are relevant to the purpose of the surveillance. IMY assesses against this background
that the camera surveillance is necessary to deal with incidents and trace medicines.

The balancing of interests
IMY then has to examine whether the registered person's fundamental rights and freedoms are respected
(the interest in privacy) outweighs the legitimate interest to which the surveillance relates
to protect (the security interest).

In terms of the security interest, IMY assesses against the background of the importance of a safe
drug handling as well as the requirements placed on Apotea to ensure such and
to handle drug-related incidents that the surveillance interest weighs relatively
heavy.

Regarding the privacy interest, it can initially be stated that camera surveillance
of workplaces can give rise to particular privacy risks. It can, for example
enable mapping of the staff's work efforts or habits in general. An employee
nor, in most cases, expect to be monitored by their employer on their
workplace.19 This means that the interest in privacy in workplaces as a starting point
weighs heavily. In the present case, however, it is a question of a workplace where drugs,
including narcotic drugs, are handled and which must therefore meet a number
legal requirements regarding, among other things, safe handling of medicines and investigation of
drug-related incidents. Under such conditions, IMY assesses that
employees to a greater extent than otherwise can expect camera surveillance to take place on
the workplace.

The monitoring for the purpose of handling incidents and tracking medicines is as previously stated
limited to certain specially selected areas. The surveillance at the prescription part hits i
some all employees who work in that part of the premises, which make up about one
tenth of the total workforce. Also the coverage of
warehouse operations affect a limited part of the total number of employees per shift.

Access to the recorded material is limited to three executives.
Access is limited to situations where alternative attempts to trace medicines have
failed. In the first place, the incident is investigated by managers on site in the premises. The

19 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 37.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

9(20)

 

executives who have access to the surveillance material are informed that
the material is covered by a duty of confidentiality and that they are therefore not allowed to reveal or use it
information that they learn about an individual through the surveillance material
personal relationships. Access to the camera surveillance material is logged in the software
and can be checked afterwards. The physical access to the location where the material
can be saved is limited.

Against the background of what emerged in the case, IMY assesses - in particular with
taking into account that it is a matter of monitoring employees who are dependent on
his employer - that the privacy interest weighs relatively heavily. At a summary
trade-off between the security interest and the privacy interest, however, IMY assesses that
Apotea's interest in monitoring for the purpose of managing incidents and tracking medicines
weighs slightly more heavily than the privacy interest in the places being monitored. In the assessment
has been particularly taken into account that the coverage is limited to areas that are relevant to
the purpose of the surveillance, that access to the material is limited and only takes place as
a last option and that Apotea's operations are such that employees in larger
extent than what normally applies in a workplace can expect to
camera surveillance takes place at the workplace.

Apotea thus has a legal basis for the company's camera surveillance for the purpose of handling
drug-related incidents and track drugs.

Surveillance for the purpose of preventing, uncovering and investigating crime

Does Apotea have a legitimate interest in preventing, detecting and investigating crime?
Protecting property against burglary, theft or vandalism may constitute a legitimate interest
for camera surveillance, provided that there is an actual interest and
not an interest that is fictitious or speculative.20 If crime occurred at the location before
says this because it is a question of an actual interest. Some requirement that it should have
However, there is no crime that has occurred, but other circumstances may also suggest that it does
there is an actual interest. 21

Apotea has given an account of two police-reported crimes that occurred at the facility since then
the company took possession of the premises in 2018. In addition, the company has stated that there have been several
suspicious incidents that have not been reported to the police. It is therefore a question of a lot
small number of detected crimes and IMY therefore assesses that these data in themselves are not
sufficient to establish that there is an actual interest in preventing, disclosing
and investigate crimes. According to IMY, however, it must also be taken into account that Apotea handles
medicines, including those classified as narcotics, which are particularly prone to theft
goods.22 In the requirements imposed on Apotea with respect to a safe
drug handling also includes taking measures to prevent theft and
ensure that unauthorized people do not get access to medicine.23 IMY assesses against this
background that Apotea has an actual legitimate interest in preventing, revealing and
investigate crimes.

Is the camera surveillance necessary?
The question then is whether Apotea's camera surveillance is necessary to prevent, reveal
and investigate crimes. Apotea has given an account of alternative measures taken by the company

 

20 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 19-20.
21 The judgment of the European Court of Justice in case C-708/18 TK, paragraph 44.
22 Cf. prop. 2019/20:109 p. 34.
23 See, among other things, §§ 9 and 10 LVFS 2009:9 with associated Guidance, version 5, February 2022, pp. 8 ff. regarding
requirements for the design of the premises and Section 8 of the Swedish Medicines Agency's regulations on distance trading at outpatient pharmacies
(LVFS 2009:10) with associated Guidance, version 2, February 2014, p. 4 on packaging and preventing theft.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

10(20)

 

which includes, among other things, the adoption of protective measures required according to
The Swedish Medicines Agency's regulations, such as neutral packaging of classified narcotics
drug. The Swedish Medicines Agency's regulations also set requirements for expediency
designed premises, which includes that the premises must be equipped with locks and alarms so
that unauthorized access is made significantly more difficult.24 Apotea has also stated that the company
dialogue with the Police Authority regarding security in the premises because pharmacies are a vulnerable area
business due to the availability of narcotic drugs.

Apotea has stated that the camera surveillance aims to prevent unauthorized persons
enters the premises and to discourage such intrusions as well as to monitor in particular
exposed areas where goods prone to theft are handled. IMY notes that the coverage is
limited to areas relevant to the stated purposes. After completion
from Apotea has further revealed that the recording area of a camera has partially
masked to avoid surveillance of office locations. The cameras are active 24/7
around.

IMY assesses that the investigation in the case supports that the purpose of the surveillance is not
can reasonably be protected in an equally effective manner by alternative measures. The surveillance
is limited to areas that are relevant to the purpose of the surveillance. IMY assesses against
this background that the camera surveillance is necessary to prevent, reveal and
investigate crimes.

The balancing of interests
IMY then has to examine whether the registered person's fundamental rights and freedoms are respected
(the interest in privacy) outweighs the legitimate interest to which the surveillance relates
to protect (the security interest).

As far as the surveillance interest is concerned, Apotea has reported two crimes reported to the police on
the facility since 2018 and stated that in addition there have been several suspicious incidents
incidents that have not been reported to the police. Because it is a question of a very limited
number of crimes that have occurred, IMY believes that these only have a limited significance at
the assessment of the weight of the surveillance interest. As stated above, however, handles
Apothecary especially pilferable goods in the form of medicines including narcotics. Apotheosis
business is further such that the company must comply with the legal requirements in question
on safe handling of medicines, which includes an obligation to protect medicines
from being stolen. Against this background, IMY assesses that Apotea's security interest in
purpose of preventing, detecting and investigating crime weighs relatively heavily.

Camera surveillance of workplaces can - as explained above - give rise to
special integrity risks, which means that the interest in integrity as a starting point
weighs heavily. In the present case, the company conducts surveillance for crime-fighting purposes
partly of fenced area outdoors, partly of indoor areas. As for the surveillance
indoors, this meets a large number of people in the form of visitors and employees which
increases the risks of privacy breaches. At the same time, these places are of such a nature that
people as a rule cannot be expected to stay in the places for any length of time, which
speaks for a lower risk of privacy breaches. Regarding the outdoor surveillance
this is judged to refer to places of a less sensitive nature where people cannot be expected
reside other than temporarily. Similar to what was stated earlier, further means
the fact that it is a workplace where goods that are particularly susceptible to theft
handled and that Apotea is obliged to fulfill a number of legal requirements to protect

24 §§ 9 and 10 LVFS 2009:9.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

11(20)

 

drugs from theft that employees to a greater extent than otherwise can expect to
camera surveillance takes place at the workplace.

Access to the recorded material to investigate crime is limited to one
number of appointed managers. In special cases, an additional person with a special position may
granted access to assist the investigation with technical expertise. As previously
accounted for, physical access to the location where the material is stored has been restricted
and the persons concerned have been informed about, among other things, the duty of confidentiality and its meaning.
Access to the material is logged and can be checked afterwards.

Against the background of what emerged in the case, IMY assesses - in particular with
taking into account that it is a matter of monitoring employees who are dependent on
his employer - that the privacy interest weighs relatively heavily. At a summary
trade-off between the security interest and the privacy interest, however, IMY assesses that
Apotea's interest in monitoring for law enforcement purposes weighs somewhat more
the privacy interest in the places that are monitored. In the assessment, particular consideration has been given to
the surveillance is limited to areas that are relevant to the purpose of the surveillance,
that access to the material is limited and that Apotea's operations are such that
employees to a greater extent than what normally applies in a workplace can
expect camera surveillance to take place in the workplace.

Apotea thus has a legal basis for the company's camera surveillance in order to prevent,
uncover and investigate crime.

Monitoring for the purpose of providing IT support

Does Apotea have a legitimate interest in providing IT support?
Apotea has stated that the purpose of providing IT support via cameras is
business related. The purpose of the monitoring is to provide visual support for Apotea's internal IT emergency
- which is located elsewhere - in the event of technical problems in production. It can touch
troubleshooting cases or emergency support requiring visual assistance. Apotea has further
stated that it is important that the company can quickly and efficiently remedy technical problems
which cannot be resolved on the spot because the company provides vital medicine
around the clock.

IMY states that a legitimate interest can be financial. Furthermore, it is in
customers' interest that technical problems are remedied because Apotea, among other things, delivers
drug. Overall, IMY assesses that Apotea has a legitimate interest to
provide IT support to remedy technical problems that cannot be resolved on site.

Is the camera surveillance necessary?
The question then is whether Apotea's camera surveillance is necessary to provide IT
support.

Apotea has stated that the company's IT department is located elsewhere and that it
therefore in some cases there is a need to remotely gain visual access via
the business cameras to provide support in cases where the problem cannot be resolved
in place. According to Apotea, the surveillance is only used as a last option when others
remedial measures in place have not been successful. The monitoring only takes place in
real time and is limited to the cameras deemed to be relevant for the purpose of
provide IT support.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

12(20)

 

IMY assesses that the investigation in the case supports that the purpose of the surveillance is not
can reasonably be achieved in an equally effective manner by alternative measures. The surveillance
used as a last resort when other less invasive measures have been exhausted. IMY
assesses against this background that the camera surveillance is necessary in order to
provide IT support.

The balancing of interests
IMY then has to examine whether the registered person's fundamental rights and freedoms are respected
(the interest in privacy) outweighs the legitimate interest to which the surveillance relates
to protect (the security interest).

Regarding the surveillance interest, Apotea has stated that the purpose of the surveillance is
business-related and that the monitoring is necessary in order to be able to quickly and efficiently
fix technical errors and resume operations. Although according to IMY to some extent
must be taken into account that it is also in the interest of customers that deliveries are not delayed due to
of technical errors, IMY notes that the stated purpose is primarily economic
nature. The interest of the camera surveillance for the purpose of providing IT support is
certainly justified, but weighs relatively light according to IMY.

Similar to what applies to the monitoring that takes place for other purposes can
the monitoring for the purpose of providing IT support means that employees are monitored
their workplace, which means that the interest in privacy as a starting point weighs heavily. IN
in the present case, however, it is a matter of limited monitoring that takes place in real time and
only when an on-site remedy was not possible. Access to the material is further
limited to three people with special authorization in the IT department who are
informed about, among other things, the duty of confidentiality and its meaning. These circumstances
means that the risk of privacy breaches is significantly reduced. Against this background
IMY assesses that the breach of privacy weighs relatively lightly.

Overall, IMY assesses that Apotea's interest in monitoring for the purpose of providing
IT support weighs somewhat more heavily than the interest in privacy at the locations being monitored. IN
the assessment has particularly taken into account that the monitoring takes place in real time, is limited to
areas that are relevant to the purpose of the surveillance and that access to the material
is limited.

Apotea thus has a legal basis for the company's camera surveillance in order to
provide IT support.

Surveillance for the purpose of checking goods receipt

Does Apotea have a legitimate interest in checking the goods receipt?
Apotea has stated that the purpose of monitoring the goods reception is business-related.
The goods reception is monitored so that Apotea's purchasing department can check how
large part of the delivery area that is available for future deliveries and thereby
be able to plan the business effectively. IMY states that a justified
interest may be financial and considers that Apotea has a legitimate interest to
control the flow of goods in the goods reception to be able to plan their operations.

Is the camera surveillance necessary?
The surveillance of the goods reception does not aim to continuously monitor the area
but to give the company's purchasing department a snapshot to determine how much of
the delivery area that is available for future deliveries of goods. It is according to
Apotea necessary for the staff in the purchasing department to take part in the pictures because they

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

13(20)

 

must be able to carry out their work to manage delivery capacity and plan operations.
Coverage is limited to still images taken every fifteen minutes and all
previous images are deleted so that only the most recently captured image is available.
The surveillance does not cover a larger area than is necessary to fulfill the purpose
with the surveillance. According to Apotea, effective alternative measures for surveillance are lacking.

IMY states that the surveillance of the goods reception is limited to relevant
surveillance area and to only refer to four still images per hour. IMY assesses that
the monitoring of the goods reception contributes to efficient planning of the business and that
the surveillance is necessary to achieve the stated purpose.

The balancing of interests
The question is then about the registered person's fundamental rights and freedoms
(the interest in privacy) outweighs the legitimate interest to which the surveillance relates
to protect (the security interest).

Regarding the surveillance interest, IMY states that the purpose of the surveillance is
business related. Although the interest in conducting camera surveillance is justified
IMY assesses that the surveillance interest weighs relatively lightly.

Similar to what applies to the monitoring that takes place for other purposes can
the surveillance for the purpose of checking the receipt of goods means that workers
monitored at their workplace, which means that the interest in privacy as a starting point
weighs heavily. In the present case, however, it is a question of a very limited surveillance i
form of still images every fifteen minutes. According to Apotea, there are only a few people
who work within the camera's recording area and the company estimates that only
are a few still images per day that capture employees. The employees who have
access to the material are informed about, among other things, the duty of confidentiality and that
Image materials may only be used for the purposes for which they were collected. These
circumstances mean that the risk of privacy breaches is significantly reduced. To
the purchasing department has group authorization to access the images, although the risks increase
something, but against the background of above all that it is a matter of single still images per hour
overall, IMY assesses that the interest in privacy at the site weighs lightly.

Overall, IMY assesses that Apotea's interest in monitoring is for the purpose of control
the receipt of goods outweighs the interest in privacy at the place being guarded. IN
the assessment has particularly taken into account that the monitoring takes place in the form of still images each
fifteenth minute and only exceptionally means that employees are caught in a picture.

Apotea thus has a legal basis for the company's camera surveillance for the purpose of control
the goods reception.

Disclosure duty and information obligation

Whoever conducts camera surveillance has far-reaching obligations to inform
concerned persons about the ongoing surveillance. Partly applies according to section 15
the camera surveillance act a requirement that information about camera surveillance must be provided
through clear signage or in some other effective way. In addition to this, whoever is
personal data controller for camera surveillance provide information about the surveillance and
the processing of personal data that the monitoring entails according to articles 12 and 13 i
data protection regulation. IMY must therefore assess whether the company has lived up to the requirements in
these regulations regarding their camera surveillance.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

14(20)

 

Obligation to provide information according to the Camera Surveillance Act
The requirement for information according to the Camera Surveillance Act means that the operator
camera surveillance at a location must disclose this. The provision refers to themselves
the use of camera surveillance equipment and not the treatment of
personal data that the monitoring entails.25 The provision does not contain any requirements in
otherwise regarding what information must be provided. The duty to provide information thus becomes
is considered to have been fulfilled if the person carrying out the surveillance clearly leaves
information that camera surveillance takes place at a certain location. This information shall
left through signage or in any other effective way.

The investigation into the case shows that the company has put up signs around the premises,
partly in connection with entrances for vehicles and when entering for employees and visitors,
partly in direct connection to the camera-surveillance areas. IMY assesses against this
background that Apotea has provided information about the surveillance through clear signage
and thereby fulfilled the disclosure requirement in Section 15 of the Camera Surveillance Act.

Information obligation according to the data protection regulation

Applicable regulations
Articles 12-14 of the data protection regulation contain provisions on which information
which the personal data controller must provide to the data subject in all forms of
personal data processing, including during camera surveillance.

Article 12 contains general provisions on the right to information and the
data subject's rights in general. The article states, among other things, that the
personal data controller must take appropriate measures to to the registered
provide all information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 in a concise, clear and
clear, understandable and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language.
Furthermore, it appears that the information must be provided in writing, or in some other form,
including, where appropriate, in electronic form.

Article 13 regulates what information must be provided when the personal data is collected
directly from the data subject and Article 14 which information must be provided when
the personal data is collected from someone other than the data subject. At
camera surveillance is considered personal data collected directly from the data subject.26 IMY
must therefore assess whether the company has lived up to its obligations according to articles 12 and
13 of the data protection regulation.

According to Article 13.1 and 13.2, the person in charge of personal data must, among other things, inform
it registered about the following.

• The identity and contact details of the person in charge of personal data.
• Contact details for the data protection officer.
• The purpose of the processing for which the personal data is intended

as well as the legal basis for the processing.

• If the legal basis is Article 6.1 f (balancing of interests), which

legitimate interest the processing aims to secure.

 

25 Prop. 2017/18:231 p. 88 f.
26 The Article 29 working group's guidelines on transparency according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679, WP260rev.01, point 26 and
EDPB Guidelines 3/2019, paragraphs 110-119. However, see the Court of Appeal in Stockholm's judgment on 26 January 2023 in case no
1552-22 in which the court of appeals judged that it is not article 13 but article 14 that should be applicable in
camera surveillance. The judgment has been appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court (case no. 870-23) and has thus not won
cook power. In the absence of a legally binding ruling that goes against the EDPB's guidelines on the matter, IMY assumes that it is
Article 13 to be applied in the case.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

15(20)

 

• The recipients or the categories of recipients who are to take part

the personal data, where applicable.

• The period during which the personal data will be stored or they

criteria used to determine this period.

• That there is a right to request from the person in charge of personal data

access to and correction or deletion of personal data or limitation
of processing concerning the data subject or to object to processing.

• That the registered person has the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority.

From article 13.4 it appears that points 1, 2 and 3 shall not be applied if and to the extent
the data subject already has the information.

The information must in principle be provided to the data subject before processing it
data subject's personal data is started. In view of the fact that it is a question of a large
amount of information to be provided to the data subject, the EDPB has produced guidelines
about how the person in charge of personal data can proceed in order to live up to the requirements in
articles 12 and 13.27 From these guidelines it appears that the person in charge of personal data can
use a step-by-step method to provide the information shown in
article 13. The step-by-step method means that the information that is of greatest importance to
the registered person must be reported even before the registered person steps into the guarded area
the area, for example on a sign (the first layer of information). Other information can
reported in another way, for example on a website or in a complete
information sheets in a central location such as at an information desk or in a
reception (the second layer of information).

Which information is of the greatest importance to the data subject and which must therefore be included
the first layer of information may vary depending on how and in what location
monitoring takes place, but should generally include that of the personal data controller
identity and contact details, the purpose of the surveillance, the data subject's rights
and information about the main impact of the treatment (for example storage time,
publication of material or transfer of material to third parties).28 The first
the information layer should also contain any information that may be surprising to
the data subject, for example if material is transferred to third parties or if
is a question of a long storage period of the recorded material.29 Finally, it must
first layer of information contain a reference to how the registered person can go
proceed to access the second layer of information, for example through a link to one
website, a QR code or a telephone number that the data subject can call.30

How Apotea provides information about the monitoring to the data subject
In the first layer of information, which consists of signs on the facility, informs
Apotea the registrant that the company conducts camera surveillance at the location, the purposes
with the monitoring and the maximum storage time for recorded material. For further
information and to take part in their rights such as the right of access it is referred to
registered to the company's complete privacy policy which can be accessed via grant or at
closest boss. The sign also contains contact details for the company's data protection officer.

For employees, the second layer of information is the company's personal data and
privacy policy for employees. In the policy, the company informs about the legal basis for
the processing (balancing of interests) and which interests the monitoring aims to

27 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, paragraphs 110-119.
28 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 114 and 116.
29 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 115.
30 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, point 114.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

16(20)

 

take care of. The policy also contains more detailed information about the storage times
is applied depending on the purpose for which the monitoring takes place and that the registered person has
possibility to lodge a complaint with IMY. It is further stated that Apotea may be liable to
disclose personal data to, for example, the Police Authority in connection with
criminal investigation. With regard to the data subject's rights, it is stated that the data subject has the right
to access and/or request access to their personal data once per calendar year
them deleted and that such a request must be in writing, contain it
registrant's social security number and be signed by the registrant. Further
states that the data subject has the right to request that the data be corrected or deleted if they
would be incomplete, inaccurate or irrelevant.

For external visitors, the second layer of information is an information sheet
regarding the processing of personal data via camera surveillance that is available at
the place of enrollment. The information sheet explains the legal basis for
the surveillance and which interests the surveillance aims to protect. The information sheet
also contains more detailed information about which storage times are applied
depending on the purpose for which the monitoring takes place and that the registered person has the opportunity
to file a complaint with IMY. Furthermore, it is stated that camera surveillance material can be shared with
law enforcement agencies for the purpose of investigating a crime. In case of being registered
rights it is stated that the data subject has the right to request access to and correction or
deletion of their personal data and the right to request that personal data be stopped
processed or that the processing must be limited.

IMY's assessment
IMY notes initially that Apotea has provided most of the information that
shall be provided in accordance with Article 13 in either the first or second information layer.

With regard to information about recipients of personal data (Article 13.1 e), it appears from
EDPB guidelines that such information may be surprising to the data subject and
that the information may therefore need to be provided in the first information layer. Against
background of the fact that the purpose of the surveillance is, among other things, to investigate crime, as stated on
the first layer of information, however, it should not be surprising to data subjects that
the material may be handed over to law enforcement authorities. In the present case
further information is provided that recorded material can be handed over to
law enforcement agencies in the second layer of information both for employees and
external visitors. Overall, IMY assesses that there is no support for the case
the conclusion that the absence of information about law enforcement agencies that
recipient of recorded material in the first layer of information implies a deficiency in
relation to Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation.

Regarding information about the personal data controller's contact details
notes IMY that it is indeed stated on the first information layer
the e-mail address of the personal data representative. However, this is a separate task that must
is informed about in accordance with Article 13 and cannot be equated with being contact information for
the personal data controller. Contact information in the form of a postal address can be found
indeed in the second layer of information but should, in accordance with what appears
The EDPB's guidelines are already apparent from the first layer of information. IMY notes that
employees can be expected to have contact details for their employer, but that this
does not necessarily apply to external visitors. That there is no contact information for
Apothea on camera surveillance signs is therefore deemed to constitute a deficiency in relation to
Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

17(20)

 

The EDPB's guidelines state that the sign must clearly refer to the information on it
the second layer of information as well as where and how to find it.31 IMY states that on
the sign states that if the registered person wants further information, he is referred to
the company's privacy policy, which can be accessed via grants or from the nearest manager. Relative
to external visitors, IMY considers that the reference to the immediate manager is not relevant
and that the expression "reached via grant" is far too vague to be considered to provide clear information about
where further information can be obtained. That the camera surveillance signs do not contain
a clear reference to where further information can be obtained constitutes according to IMY's
assessment a deficiency in relation to Article 13 of the data protection regulation.

Regarding the content of the second information layer for employees, IMY states that
Apotea's personal data and privacy policy for employees lacks information on
the right to request restriction of processing and to object to processing. This
implies a deficiency in relation to Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation.

The document does state that employees have the right to request access, correction and
deletion. However, these rights are stated to be limited to only apply once
per year and contains form requirements meaning that the request must be in writing,
contain a social security number and be signed by the registered person. IMY states
that a personal data controller may in certain circumstances refuse to
comply with a data subject's request for, among other things, correction and deletion of it
personal data controller shows that he is not in a position to identify the data subject
(Article 11.1 and 12.2 of the data protection regulation) and that the personal data controller
may charge a reasonable fee or refuse to accommodate such requests if these are
manifestly unfounded or unreasonable, especially due to its repetitive nature (Article 12.5
in the data protection regulation). However, there are no specific provisions in the data protection regulation
restrictions that support the fact that a data subject may only exercise his rights a
once a year or that the request must always be in writing and contain a social security number
and signature. Instead, an assessment must be made in each individual case.32 The
according to IMY, information that Apotea provides therefore gives the false impression that the employees
rights with regard to the personal data processing such as the camera surveillance
means are limited in time and always subject to form requirements in a way that lacks
support in the data protection regulation. Against this background, IMY assesses that the information in
the personal data and privacy policy for employees that employees' right to exercise their
rights may only take place once per calendar year and that the request is subject to
certain form requirements constitute a deficiency in relation to Article 13.2 b of the data protection regulation.

In summary, IMY assesses that the deficiencies noted above mean that
Apotea has violated Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation. 33

Choice of intervention

From article 58.2 i and article 83.2 of the data protection regulation it appears that IMY has
power to impose administrative penalty charges in accordance with Article 83.
Depending on the circumstances of the individual case, administrative
penalty fees are imposed in addition to or instead of the other measures referred to in article

 
31 EDPB guidelines 3/2019, points 114 and 117.
32 EDPB, Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights - Right of access, Version 1.0, adopted for public consultation on
18 January 2022 (EDPB's Guidelines 01/2022 on the right of access), p. 2 and p. 174.
33 Due to the fact that the question of whether it is Article 13 or 14 that must be applied to camera surveillance is subject to
judicial review (Supreme Administrative Court case no. 870-23) IMY would like to emphasize that Article 14
corresponding requirements such as Article 13 regarding the information to contain contact details for
personal data controller and information about the data subject's rights and that there is no reason to judge
the requirement for clear reference to a second layer of information differs depending on whether information is provided under Article 13
or 14.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

18(20)

 

58.2, such as injunctions and prohibitions. Furthermore, it is clear from article 83.2 which
factors to be taken into account when deciding whether administrative penalty charges are to be imposed
and when determining the size of the fee. If it is a minor violation
receives IMY as set out in recital 148 in lieu of imposing a penalty charge
issue a reprimand according to article 58.2 b. Consideration must be given to aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances of the case, such as the nature of the violation, degree of severity
and duration as well as previous violations of relevance.

IMY has established that Apotea has violated Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation by
not to enter contact details for the company on their camera surveillance signs, on their
camera surveillance signs do not leave clear enough information about where it is
registrants can access additional information as well as leave incomplete and
misleading information in the second employee information layer. A violation
of that provision may result in a penalty fee.

IMY assesses that the incomplete and misleading information about was registered
rights in Apotea's personal data and privacy policy for employees pose a risk
because data subjects do not become aware of their rights or exercise their rights i
to a lesser extent than they are entitled to according to the data protection regulation.

As for the absence of contact details on the signs, this mainly means a lack of
relationship with external visitors, as employees can be expected to be aware of
their employer's contact details. It is also noted that contact details are in
the second layer of information for both employees and external visitors.

Also the lack in the form of unclear information about where the registered person can access it
the second layer of information is attributable to external visitors, who make up a smaller part of
the number of people hit by the surveillance. It is also a question of a lack of clarity and
not an absence of reference to the second layer of information. Apotea also has
stated that the information sheet is available at enrollment as all external
visitors pass.

IMY also states that the camera surveillance in question is carried out at locations there
the public does not have access, which means that the deficiencies in the information affect one
limited circle of people.

In an overall assessment of the circumstances, IMY finds that it is a question of such
minor violations in the sense referred to in recital 148 that there is reason to
refrain from imposing a penalty fee on Apotea for the found violation.
Apotea must therefore, with the support of Article 58.2 b of the data protection regulation, instead be given one
reprimand for the established violation.

According to IMY, it is important that Apotea take measures to ensure that they
registrants receive correct and complete information regarding the current one
the camera surveillance. There are therefore reasons that with the support of Article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation order Apotea to take measures to ensure that it
there are contact details on the camera surveillance signs at the facility in Morgongåva
to the company and a clear reference to where external visitors can find out more
information and that in the second information layer for employees there is information about
all rights referred to in Article 13.2 b and that these rights are not
limited to an extent that goes beyond what appears
data protection regulation. The measures must have been taken no later than four weeks after this
decision gained legal force.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

19(20)

 

This decision has been taken by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after a presentation
by the lawyer Andreas Persson.
 
Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2023-03-13 (This is an electronic signature)

 

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2023-03-13
 

20(20)

 

How to appeal

If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you received it
part of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.

You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

