1(3)

Apotea AB

 
<email address>

Supervision according to the data protection regulation

The Norwegian Data Protection Authority (IMY), formerly the Data Protection Authority, has decided to
review your personal data processing and have initiated a supervisory case. You need
therefore answer our questions.
Why does IMY audit your business?

IMY is the supervisory authority and is responsible for monitoring the application of
the data protection regulation (GDPR)1 and the camera surveillance act (2018:1200). The
means, among other things, that we have the task of checking whether camera surveillance which
conducted in Sweden is carried out in a correct manner.

We have taken note of information in the media which claims that you conduct camera surveillance
at your logistics center at Tjusarv채gen 40, Morgong책va (see appendix 1). It appears among
another thing is that there is continuous monitoring with image recording of your employees during
working hours and that the cameras are also used for work management.

Camera surveillance is a form of personal data processing. The one who conducts
camera surveillance must comply with the provisions of the GDPR and the Camera Surveillance Act.
IMY has decided to initiate supervision against you to investigate whether your camera surveillance is compliant
these laws.
Our questions

IMY wants you to answer the following questions:

1. Do or have you at any time conducted camera surveillance2 at your

place of business at Tjusarv채gen 40, Morgong책va?

2. Is Apotea AB the personal data controller3 for the monitoring?

General about the camera surveillance

3. How many cameras do you use? Attach a drawing showing the respective cameras

location and catchment area are clearly stated. Attach screenshot from
all cameras.

4. When did you start doing camera surveillance?

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/79 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regarding the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on the cancellation of
directive 95/46/EC
2 See Section 3 of the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200) for the legal definition of the concept of camera surveillance.
3 See Article 4.7 GDPR for the legal definition of the term personal data controller.

Diary number:
DI-2021-774

Date:
2021-02-10

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2021-02-10

2(3)

5. Describe the area or areas you are monitoring. For example, specify the type of
activities you carry out in the places that are monitored or which people or
categories of personnel who reside within the guarded areas.

6. What kind of cameras are installed?

How the camera surveillance is conducted

7. During what times are the cameras running?
8. Why have you chosen these particular times for monitoring?

9. Do you monitor in real time?

a. If yes, state with which cameras.
b. Describe how the real-time monitoring is conducted, e.g. during which times
real-time monitoring takes place, where the monitor for the real-time monitoring is
placed and which people are authorized to view
monitoring in real time.

10. Does image recording take place?

a. If yes, state with which cameras.
b. State how long image material is saved and how you justified the chosen one

the storage time.

c. How many and which persons/executives have access to it

recorded footage? Describe how you have chosen to limit the circle
by persons with this authorization.

11. Do you eavesdrop or record sound with the cameras?

a. If yes, state with which cameras.
b. State the purpose of the wiretapping and/or audio recording.

Purpose and legal basis

12. For what purpose or purposes do you conduct camera surveillance? The surveillance is done

for multiple purposes, account for each purpose separately.

13. What legal basis according to Article 6.1 GDPR do you support the camera surveillance

on? Explain how you have reasoned and justify your choice on a legal basis.

14. Have you taken any alternative measures to achieve the purpose of

the surveillance? If yes, describe what measures you have taken and why
measures have not been sufficient to achieve the purpose.

Obligation to provide information and right to information

15. According to Article 13 GDPR, the personal data controller is obliged to

provide information to registered persons about the processing of
ongoing personal data, including during camera surveillance. What information
have you provided to those who have been subject to camera surveillance?

16. How has the information been provided? When and by whom? Entered with possibly
written information material that has been provided to those who have been subject
for the surveillance.

17. According to Section 15 of the Camera Surveillance Act, information about camera surveillance must be provided

left through clear signage or in some other effective way. How to leave
you information about your surveillance? If you use signs, attach a picture or
copy of the sign.

Other circumstances of importance

as shown in Appendix 1?

18. Do you have anything else to add regarding your camera surveillance or the data

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2021-774
Date: 2021-02-10

3(3)

Your answers
Reply in writing to IMY no later than February 24, 2021.

Provided that the response does not contain any privacy-sensitive personal data or
information that may be covered by confidentiality, you can e-mail it to imy@imy.se and
refer to our diary number DI-2021-774.
Do you have to answer IMY?

Yes, IMY is a supervisory authority according to the data protection regulation, GDPR4. This means that we
may request that you provide all information that we need to be able to fulfill our
information such as supervisory authority.5
What happens next?

When IMY has finished the review, you will receive a decision. There you will get
notification of any deficiencies in your data protection and whether you must take any corrective measures
actions. IMY can, for example, impose administrative penalty fees according to
the data protection regulation.6

If you have questions, contact Gustav Linder on tel. 08-657 61 57.

Sincerely

Gustav Linder, 2021-02-10 (This is an electronic signature)

Information about IMY's processing of personal data
https://www.imy.se/om-oss/information-om-hur-datainspektionen-behandlar-
personal data/

4 Regulation (EU) 2016/79 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regarding the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on the cancellation of
directive 95/46/EC.
5 Article 58.1 of the data protection regulation.

6 Article 58.2 and Article 83-84 of the data protection regulation.

