1/9

 File No.: EXP202212263

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On August 16, 2022, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, a resolution was issued in the sanctioning procedure of the
file number ***FILE.1, filed against the CITY COUNCIL OF THE
PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA (hereinafter, the City Council).

The resolution contains the following proven facts:

“FIRST: It is on record that on October 16, 2021, the claimant
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, against the
CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA, having published in its
web page, the minutes of the Plenary Session dated 01/31/2019, where it appears in
relation to some allegations that he made to a municipal ordinance, his name,
surnames and ID.

SECOND: It has been verified that the document is accessible on the web
of said body."

In said resolution, in addition to sanctioning with a warning, the adoption of
of the following measures:

THIRD: REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA,
to implement, within a month, the necessary corrective measures to adapt
their performance to the personal data protection regulations, which prevent that in the
similar events are repeated in the future, as well as to inform this Agency in the same
deadline for the measures taken.

SECOND: The resolution of the disciplinary procedure was notified
reliably on August 16, 2022 to the City Council, granting it the
period of one month for the adoption of the imposed measures, as stated
certified in the file.

THIRD: After the indicated period has elapsed without this Agency having
received any writing on the measures implemented, a letter was received from the
Ombudsman on October 7, 2022, with registration number of
entry ***REGISTRATION.1, in which it requested information on the actions
carried out by the City Council leading to comply with what is ordered in the
resolution.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

For all these reasons, they proceeded to request him again so that, within ten days
working days, they will prove to this Agency that they have adopted the corrective measures
timely, in attention to what was agreed in the aforementioned Resolution. This requirement was
collected by the City Council on October 18, 2022, as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

FOURTH: The City Council did not send any response to this Agency that accredits
compliance with the imposed measures.

FIFTH: Against the aforementioned resolution, in which the adoption of measures is required,
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not expressed his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

FIFTH: On November 30, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against the City Council, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 58.2 of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.6 of the GDPR Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR).

SIXTH: The aforementioned start agreement was collected by the City Council on the 13th of
December 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

SEVENTH: On December 20, 2022, entry into this
Agency, with the number ***REGISTRO.2, writing in which the City Council alleges that
On October 20, 2022, the General Directorate of Technological Innovation sends an email
to the General Secretariat of the Plenary of the City Council requesting the anonymization of the
record in question. Once the email is received, the General Secretariat of the Plenary will contact
immediately with the computer support unit so that it can be urgently removed
the aforementioned document from the City Council website. Add that bliss
deletion is carried out satisfactorily in a short time and also checks the
deletion of data in browser caches.

The City Council also adds that, although the adoption of measures by
said General Secretariat is carried out immediately, involuntarily the
communication of their adoption to this Agency is not carried out.

In addition, regarding the measures to be adopted in the future, the City Council affirms that,
by the General Secretariat of the Plenary will be interested in the General Directorate of
Technological Innovation the design and application of the measures that correspond with
homogeneous character for the whole institution, taking into account that the preparation of
the matters of which the Plenary and the Committees of the Plenary know are carried out by
different municipal services, without the General Secretariat of the Plenary, in the sense
strict, is configured as the managing unit of the same.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

EIGHTH: On December 27, 2022, entry was registered at this Agency,
with the number ***REGISTRATION.3, writing in which the claimant states that
continues to be published on the City Council website and accessible from the search engine
Google the aforementioned record, so the conduct constituting an infringement persists,
indicating the following link:
***URL.1

NINTH: On January 24, 2023, after verifying that the minutes were still
published with the claimant's personal data, a proposal for
resolution, in which it was proposed that the Director of this Agency impose
a sanction of warning to the City Council, ordering again that it prove
having proceeded to comply with the measures imposed in the resolution of the
file ***FILE.1.

TENTH: Dated February 10, 2023 and entry registration number
***REGISTRATION.4, the City Council presents a written statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution in which, in order to prove compliance with the measures imposed
In the resolution of ***FILE.1, the following is indicated:

The Minutes of the Plenary Session dated January 31, 2019 were removed from the web
municipal in the month of October 2022, as indicated to this Agency,
verifying at that time that it was no longer possible to access it from the
municipal website search engine and that the search result on said website also
was negative for the claimant's data.

Likewise, the necessary steps were taken to prevent access to said record.
from Internet search engines based on content indexing, terms that
They were checked at that time.

On the part of the technicians of the municipal website, measures are being taken to
prevent the appearance of information related to the Internet in search engines
object of the complaint.

In addition, it was verified that the link included in the eighth antecedent led to the Act
of the Plenary Committee on Economic-Financial Management and Special Accounts
dated January 28, 2019, Commission in which the agreed matter was discussed
subsequently by the Plenary in session held on January 31, 2019. This record does not
was found in the works of the month of October 2022 of search of
existing documents on the municipal website with data from the complaining party, which
prevented its removal at that time.

Said act dated January 28, 2019 has been removed from the municipal website,
subsequently verifying that it is no longer possible to access it from the
municipal website search engine, and the necessary steps have been taken to
prevent access to said record from Internet search engines based on indexing
of contents, verifying said terms.

Internal measures will also be reinforced, in terms of prior analysis
of the information to be published, in order to guarantee the security and
confidentiality of personal data, in addition to verifying that in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

publicity carried out to date, the legal obligations have been observed
established.

It has been prepared, and will soon be publicized on the Municipal Intranet, a
"Protocol for the publication of administrative acts and announcements", which details how
administrative acts containing personal data must be published,
prepared from the document "Guidance for the provisional application of the
Seventh additional provision of the LOPDGDD" issued by this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection, which establishes a procedure for the selection of figures
random to be published.

Additionally, the City Council is interested in acquiring a tool
technology for the anonymization of data and has signed a contract to be in charge of
treatment, with a specialized company, to carry out a proof of concept
for the implementation of Software for the anonymization of data.

Making this tool available to the organization will be accompanied by
a Circular to the employees of the City Council, containing the obligations to
observe prior to the publication of information with personal data
on the website or Municipal Transparency Portal.

Regarding the incident produced, it is noted that it has taken place due to an error
human, causing the publication of the claimant's data without having proceeded to its
anonymization.

Finally, the City Council is going to start carrying out specific training in this
matter in order to give tools and knowledge to all its employees so that
This type of event does not happen again.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The resolution of the disciplinary procedure and the requirement for the
compliance with the measures imposed therein indicated in the background
first, second and third were notified electronically, in accordance with the
provided in article 43 of the LPACAP. Said resolution became firm and executive
due to the expiration of the periods established for the filing of appeals therein
indicated.

SECOND: The City Council did not send any response to this Agency that
accredit compliance with the measures imposed before the issuance of the
agreement to initiate this disciplinary procedure.

THIRD: Notification of the agreement to start this procedure
sanction was collected by the City Council on December 13, 2022.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

FOURTH: The claimed party has presented the allegations to the agreement to initiate
this disciplinary procedure, described in the seventh precedent.

FIFTH: The notification of the proposed resolution was received by the
Town Hall dated January 27, 2023.

SIXTH: The City Council has submitted a written statement of allegations to the proposal for
resolution of this disciplinary procedure included in the tenth antecedent.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Arguments to the initiation agreement

In response to the allegations presented by the City Council to the start agreement
the following should be noted.

The resolution of the disciplinary procedure where the adoption of
measures was notified on August 16, 2022. Once the deadline
granted for it, compliance was required again and finally the start of
of this sanctioning procedure on November 30, 2022, without until
that date a response from the City Council would have been received. The communication of the
measures during the investigation of this procedure does not affect the existence of the
proven facts constituting an infringement.

As regards the measures communicated in these allegations, there is no
accredited that the necessary measures have been implemented, since the act
It is still accessible in the link collected in the eighth antecedent, showing the
Personal data of the complaining party. Therefore, it was appropriate to include in the proposal for
resolution the imposition of measures to correct the infringement.

Allegations to the resolution proposal

II

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

In response to the allegations to the motion for a resolution, presented by the
City Hall, the following should be noted.

The communication of the measures during the instruction of this procedure does not
affects the existence of proven facts constituting an infringement.

With regard to the measures communicated, this Agency accuses
receipt of the same, without this declaration implying any pronouncement on
the regularity or legality of the measures adopted.

In the proposed resolution it was proposed that the Director order to accredit
having proceeded to comply with the measures imposed in the resolution of the
file ***FILE.1. Having received communication of the proceedings
made by the claimed party before issuing the resolution, it is not appropriate to order such
measure in this resolution.

Notice of the provisions of article 5.2 of the GDPR, which establishes the principle
of proactive responsibility when it states that "The person responsible for the treatment will be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of article 1 and capable of demonstrating it”.
This principle refers to the obligation that falls on the person responsible for the
treatment not only of designing, implementing and observing legal, technical
and organizational processes so that the data processing is in accordance with the
regulations, but to remain actively vigilant throughout the entire life cycle
of the treatment so that this compliance is correct, being also able to
prove it.

IV.

breached obligation

Based on the available evidence, it is considered that the
City Council breached the resolution of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
in relation to the measures imposed on him, since he had not proven his
compliance prior to the issuance of the agreement to initiate this
sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Proven facts" section are considered
constituting an infraction, attributable to the City Council, for violation of article
58.2.d) of the GDPR, which provides the following:

"2. Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Classification and classification of the offense

V

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the GDPR, which stipulates the following:

"Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority under article
58, section 2, will be penalized in accordance with section 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
the following behavior is very serious:

"m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

SAW

sanction imputed

Article 83.7 of the GDPR provides the following:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:
(…)
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
likewise, the measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct it.
the effects of the offense committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
enough evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
be applicable.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
accredit the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF LAS PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA,
with NIF P3501700C, for a violation of Article 58.2 of the GDPR, typified in the
Article 83.6 of the GDPR, a warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to LAS PALMAS CITY COUNCIL
FROM GRAND CANARY.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

