 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE
 

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

February 09, 2022

 Activity report data protection 2021

Advice on data protection law for ministries,

and citizenship on issues related to the pandemic

combat was the central focus of the last

year

 
Significant increase in data breach reports

 

Education Center for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

(BIDIB) very successful despite the pandemic

 

Roads to freedom: After the pandemic, citizens should

would like to be able to freely exercise their civil rights again

 

LfDI Dr. Stefan Brink: “We are committed to citizens

quent to the side and go to possible injuries to her

fundamental right to informational self-determination.

We also help authorities and companies to digitize

tion and early risks for the rights of

- 2 -

exclude people. We show ways how

Data protection and digitization thought together and

can also be done together. without data

protection and IT security, the digital development

burden on the citizens and would be doomed to failure

– we want data protection and digitization to be successful

help.”

 

The year 2021 continued to be strong from a privacy perspective

shaped by the corona pandemic. With increasing duration

the interventions in the informational self-determination

right, but almost consistently more serious. At the Corona

The state commissioner has regulations of the state government

helped align the regulations with data protection law

to agree. At the end of last year, one began

intensive political discussion about the introduction of a vaccination

obligation and a vaccination register. The state commissioner advises

The state government is also working intensively on this and is bringing all data

intellectual property aspects into the political discussion.

 

The restrictions on civil rights caused by the pandemic

protect a high good of our constitution, namely the law

to life and physical integrity. Here a reasonable

Finding a balance with our freedom rights was and is

is also the task of data protection.

 

Hard interventions in many areas of life

The intensive interventions in the self-determination of the people

were diverse: without 3G or 2G status, citizens

denied services, with the launch of 3G on

a social taboo was broken in the workplace –

Employee health information went to employers

basically don't do anything so far; Students were with

Online exams exposed to massive controls, health

Health data was collected and used in bulk. at

some test centers, for example, unfortunately had to

be made that sensitive data is sometimes disclosed a thousand times

fen were visible.

- 3 -

 

The state representative was able to report positive developments in the

last year, however, also noticed that the Kultus-

Ministry, for example, decided in July 2021 that schools should

Data protection compliant digital education platform available

to ensure high-quality distance learning

create.

 

As part of his advice to the Ministry of Education, the

At the beginning of last year, state representatives launched a pilot

project for the use of a specially configured variant of the

Microsoft 365 cloud service as part of the planned educational

platform accompanied. Based on the test results obtained

nisse (e.g. unexplained data flows of personal data,

Processing of personal data for own purposes

from Microsoft, problematic transmissions of data, for example

to the USA) the state representative advised against this

Software to be used in schools and recommended, strengthened

to look for alternatives.

 

At the same time, the state representative is increasing his advisory

tion: This year the education center BIDIB offers the

responsible schools and teachers a variety of

meetings and workshops to ensure data protection-compliant digital

ensure education. For this purpose, the state parliament has

commissioned additional positions for a period of two years

approved. With these measures, the State

commissioned schools, teachers, parents and students to

to enable optimal school education even during the pandemic

. And the perspective is clear: in the future there will be a data

protection-compliant digital education platform

 

Overall, in 2021 many opportunities for di-

gitalization used: home office regulations in companies

and authorities have been introduced to have video conferencing

brought people together over a distance,

digitization is helping to deal with the pandemic. Of the

- 4 -

State representative has supported this development to the best of his ability

supports and hopes that the numerous positive developments

can be continued.

 

Ways out of the pandemic - back to freedom

The Corona pandemic has the office of the State Commissioner

were intensively challenged in the past year. At the same time open

At the end of 2021, prospects for the citizens again

allow more freedom. For example in the discussion

to adopt the country's contact tracing strategy

fit. In the Corona Ordinance, the use of the

Corona warning app assigned for digital contact recording

let and thus also decided that citizens their

Location data not necessarily transmitted to the health department

have to tell. The very comprehensive data utilization is not

longer necessary for health protection, the purpose is no longer applicable

for the widespread use of digital contact data collection. With

of the amending ordinance that will come into force on Wednesday, February 9th

does the state government comply with this requirement and

largely dispenses with the collection of contact data.

 

The state commissioner will be appointed as soon as the pandemic is over

is, all pandemic-related fundamental rights interventions on the test

stand. He will approach companies that want 3G

have stored wisely and insist on their deletion. sex

health information, such as information on pregnancy

societies or autoimmune diseases of employees

may not be used in the future to

sluggishly to finish or deny a promotion. Also

the state commissioner will use the powers of intervention of the state

tes that were justified with the fight against the pandemic

set the test.

 
 

 

- 5 -

The state representative Stefan Brink: "For the benefit of health

security measures, harsh encroachments on fundamental rights were decided.

It is only logical to follow these pandemic-related interventions

to take back the pandemic. Be on it

we push.”

 

The year 2021 in figures: Significant increase in

data breach reports

Also in 2021, the state representative received one

variety of complaints. With 4,708 complaints a year

2021 (74 less than 2020) remains the number of complaints

still very high. The number of data breach reports

even rose by more than 25 percent, reaching 3,136

reports a new high. A large security

A gap in Microsoft Exchange led to a large number of reports

at the state representative. Encryption Trojans also set-

zen to numerous sufferers.

 

The number of direct requests for advice to the agency

of the state commissioner has fallen, at the same time they have risen

Registration for events at the Education Center for

data protection and freedom of information (BIDIB).

Last year, the state representative recorded

2,206 consultation requests (-1,079 compared to the previous year)

such as 2,016 registrations for events at the Bildungszentrum

rums (+1,231 compared to the previous year).

 

The number of control measures carried out reduced

due to the pandemic from 31 in 2020 to 10 in the reporting

Period. 129 fine proceedings were pending, 14 fine

decisions were issued. Overall, fines were

amount of 319,700 euros. The proceedings against

VfB Stuttgart was also discussed intensively in public.

 
 

 

- 6 -

IT security and data protection

The year 2021 has shown: The number of cyber attacks on

Authorities and companies are increasing. The state commissioner

th incoming data breach reports are a clear one

Indicating how much the IT infrastructure is becoming increasingly underdeveloped

shelling stands. Authorities and companies should

consequently expand efforts for more IT security.

Such attacks are not natural disasters resulting from the

Nothing come and against which one would be powerless. Even if

there is no 100 percent security against attacks and data

theft: a high level of security and well equipped

In-house IT specialists help authorities and companies

ment to minimize risks. In Baden-Wurttemberg

the state government has set up its own cyber security

Agency founded that advises and supports on issues of

offers IT security. “The establishment of the cyber security

agency shows that the state government takes the issue seriously

takes”, says the state representative Stefan Brink.

 
In the field of using artificial intelligence (AI).

the state representative last year at the European

participated in the drafting of an AI regulation and

within the framework of a statement by the European data

protection committee (EDSA). In this

year, the state commissioner strengthens his AI consulting

special of start-ups and small and medium-sized companies

men (SMEs) and in medical research; he supports

to use new technologies effectively and in compliance with data protection

clog For this purpose, the state parliament has the state representative

new positions approved, so he can now do business even better

can stand aside in the digital transformation. the country

officer will also have his own department this year

design series on topics of artificial intelligence

and offer them to the general public.

 
 

 

- 7 -

Enable digital transformation

Authorities, companies and other institutions must

Respect civil rights also in the digital world. "As a

inspection authority, it is part of our daily work to

to investigate, correct misconduct and when in doubt

also to issue prohibitions and sanctions,” said the

State Commissioner Brink. The General Data Protection Regulation

greatly strengthen the powers of regulators.

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: “We consistently stand by the citizens

side and address possible violations of their fundamental rights

informational self-determination. We help authorities

and companies to shape digitization and

to rule out risks to human rights at an early stage. we

show ways in which data protection and digitization can be combined

can be thought of and also done together.

Without data protection and IT security, digital development would

at the expense of citizens and would be doomed to failure

shares - we want data protection and digitization to be successful

help."

 

For the state representative, the advisory service is therefore

centrally in order to make data protection-compliant developments at an early stage

promote and work towards legal certainty.

 

Data protection is protection of freedom

The handling of personal data is a cultural

technology, which in the data-driven networked world of ever

is of greater importance. Citizens decide freely and independently

determines the use of their own data. authorities and

Companies must handle this data carefully

and give citizens the opportunity to exercise their self-determination

to exercise the right of consent. Data protection is not a marginal issue

more, it affects very many areas of life and is therefore also

important in everyday social life.

- 8th -

 

The information and discussion offers of the State

are heard. The website of the State Commissioner

ten records up to 7,500 hits a day. The handout

of the state representative are called up thousands of times

and serve those responsible and citizens as useful

practical help. For example, the handout was of interest

3G at work, the position paper on continued wage payments in the

illness, updating the help for the Schrems II

Judgment, the advice on online exams at colleges and

video conferencing systems, the scoring brochure and others

Practice aids a total of more than 100,000 people. The LfDI

The newsletter now interests more than 5,000 subscribers.

 

Above

his

social media channel

on

mastodon

(https://bawu.social/@lfdi) informs and communicates the

commissioned directly with citizens. Meanwhile also have

several ministries and numerous other public bodies

how municipalities and universities decided, on the

todon server, which the LfDI operates itself, an account

and thus communicate digitally in compliance with data protection

ren.

 

With the newly introduced video series “B. seeks freedom” opens

the office of the landing officer continues and leads

the conversation with personalities who deal intensively with the

freedom rights data protection and freedom of information

have set. At the start of the series, the landing

commissioned Brink with former Federal Minister of the Interior Gerhart Baum

and the sociologist Harald Welzer.

 

In the past year, the experts from the technical

also the LfDI app for Apple

devices developed. An Android and f-Droid version that is external

have been developed are about to be published. Next to

This LfDI app offers the state representative with "DS-

- 9 -

GVO.clever" a tool for clubs and also for smaller companies

accept that now easily, quickly and effectively own data

create privacy notices.

 

The state representative Stefan Brink: "Data protection is freedom

protection and helps to ensure that citizens are free and

can decide what to do with their highly personal

data. This is especially true in the digital world

World. Data protection and digitization only work together

men. We will continue to study the digital transformation intensively

slide."

