1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00166/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 11/04/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against ADMINISTRACIÓN AGUSTÍN, S.L. with NIF B81554750 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are:
that the administrator of the Community of Owners in which he owns his home
ownership has communicated their personal data, community debts as well as costs
and supplements related to legal proceedings for opening the door to the garden followed
against his person to a third party outside the Community of Owners; than the informed
maintains with the claimant a purchase option on the property owned by him
and whose situation can only be informed by the same prior request to the Administration
of the Community of certification of community situation for later
proceed to write or extend authorization so that you can be informed of
existing debts by the Community Administration.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 12/11/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the affected party of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the Agency determined
information:

- The decision adopted regarding this claim.
- In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to 22
of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents, dates of implementation and controls carried out to
check its effectiveness.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On 01/16/2020 the respondent responded to the information request of the AEPD
pointing out that the data of the debt of a property is not considered data of
"personal character", which verified the legitimate interest of the third party, requesting such
information, since it was necessary for the execution of a contract in which both the
claimant and the interested third party were a party; that in no case
provided personal data; that the dissemination of the personal data of the
delinquent owner that are made under the requirements indicated in the Law of
Horizontal Property, for the purposes of data protection regulations, will be considered
valid. .

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

THIRD: On 06/05/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 07/10/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 11/04/2019, the affected party submitted a written document to the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, against the claimant indicating that he had communicated his data
of a personal nature, as well as community debts and costs and supplies related to
legal proceedings brought against him by a third party outside the Community
of Owners and that the third party maintains with the claimant a purchase option
about the property you own and whose situation can only be informed by the same
prior request to the Administration of the Community of certification of situation
community to subsequently proceed to write or extend authorization
so that you can be informed of the existing debts by the Administration of the
Community.

SECOND: The claimant in writing of 01/16/2020 has indicated that the third party
I provide in your offices DNI and Purchase Option Contract on housing
located in the Community of Owners requesting to be informed about the debts
of said dwelling and considering that it has not violated the regulations regarding
data protection and that the legitimizing basis of its action is found in the
article 6.1.b) and f) of the RGPD.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed
responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
If you do not make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

III

The facts denounced materialize in the communication by the defendant
of the personal data relating to the claimant, referring to community debts and
costs related to the judicial procedure in which he was involved, to a third party with the
that he had a purchase option contract on the home he owned in the
Community of Owners in which the claimed person acts as Administrator,
violating the duty of confidentiality.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

Such treatment could constitute an infringement of article 5,

Principles related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality").
(…)”

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

IV

The documentation in the file shows that the defendant
violated article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, since it has illegally processed the data
of a personal nature of the claimant, as there is no evidence of any legitimizing cause that
enable for the processing of personal data, materialized in the
communication of community debts and costs related to a procedure
judicial in which it was involved, being provided to a third party with whom that
had signed a purchase option contract on the home he owned in
the Community of Owners in which the respondent acts as Administrator.

It should be noted that farm administrators carry out treatment of
personal data when acting on behalf of communities of
owners, who in turn hold the status of controllers.

In the same way, the communities of owners regarding the treatment
data of the community members are legitimized, for the purposes of the causes that
collects the RGPD, in compliance with a legal obligation in accordance with the
articulated of the Horizontal Property Law (LPH).

The LPH, in its article 16.2 provides that "the meeting call contains the
list of delinquent neighbors who are deprived of the vote", being a good practice
notification of the individual call by mail, inclusion in a box, or

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

via intranet with key and password, avoiding any means that may
assume access by third parties.

However, the dissemination of a debtor neighbor may be published only in the
assumption included in article 9 of the Horizontal Property Law section h)
second paragraph, "If an attempted summons or notification to the owner was impossible
practice it in the place indicated in the previous paragraph, it will be understood
by placing the corresponding communication on the bulletin board
of the community, or in a visible place of general use enabled for this purpose." In addition, to
To proceed in this way, notification attempts must be proven.

However, in the present case the treatment carried out by the
administrator is not fit in any of the legitimating causes contemplated
in the norm and materialized, as previously indicated, in the communication of
community debts and costs related to a legal proceeding, to a third party with
in which the claimant had signed a purchase option contract on the home
of its ownership in which the respondent acts as Administrator.

Respect for the principle of legality of the data requires that it be accredited that
there is a legitimizing cause for the treatment of the data and displaying a
reasonable diligence essential to prove that point. If he does not act like this
The result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

v

On the other hand, article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the
basic principles for processing, including conditions for consent
in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates: “Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: “Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the treatment operations have infringed the
provided in this Regulation;
(…)

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations.

In the present case, there is evidence that the respondent communicated the
data of the claimant to a third party violating the duty of confidentiality
constituting the aforementioned conduct an infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

Likewise, it is necessary to point out that not correcting the incidents produced
in accordance with what is stated in the RGPD or reiterate the behavior put in
manifest in the claim and that is the cause of this procedure, as well as not
informing this AEPD of the measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of
possible actions before the person in charge of the treatment so that they are applied
effectively the appropriate measures to guarantee and not compromise the
confidentiality of personal data and the right to privacy of
people.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ADMINISTRACIÓN AGUSTÍN, S.L., with NIF B81554750, for
an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a sanction of warning in accordance with article 58.2 of the RGPD.

SECOND: REQUEST ADMINISTRACIÓN AGUSTÍN, S.L., with NIF B81554750
so that within a month from the notification of this resolution, prove: the
adoption of the necessary and pertinent measures in accordance with the regulations in
matter of protection of personal data in order to avoid that in the future
incidents such as those that gave rise to the claim occur again,
adapting the aforementioned measures to the requirements contemplated in article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to ADMINISTRACIÓN AGUSTÍN, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

