
The General Data Protection Regulation is an obligation for all companies operating in the territory of the European Union and which have data from European citizens. However, this does not have to be an administrative burden, but an opportunity for more orderly and efficient business. Attendees of today's free online interactive workshop organized by the Agency for Personal Data Protection (AZOP) in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, intended for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs.
On behalf of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the participants were greeted by the Advisor to the President of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Head of the Education and Information Security Service, Mr. Petar Mišević also commented on the importance of continuing educational activities in conditions when they are not possible in the classical form. "Given the trends and the need for digitalization and digital transformation of the Croatian economy, such workshops strengthen the awareness, capacity and skills of all those who will process data in digital format. We will also use these workshops to find out what is bothering entrepreneurs in order to react to the competent ministries ", said Mr. Mišević.
“We want to continue to do our job in this time of pandemics and help micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to understand that investing in personal data protection and information security is an investment that will pay off. Since May 25, 2018, when the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force, we have been dedicated to education, not just sanctions. The lecturers in today's workshop are the most competent for the interpretation of this Regulation, and the goal of the Agency is to help entrepreneurs in complying with the provisions of the General Regulation ", said Mr. Zdravko Vukić, Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency.
The workshop presented the basic concepts related to GDPR (controller, processor, personal data, respondent), with examples from practice so that participants can see how to determine the purpose of collecting personal data given the specifics of someone's business. It also describes what the records of processing activities look like and under what conditions it must be kept and how to take into account deadlines for deleting various categories of data, as well as the agency's supervision and what are the basic documents required by AZOP when checking compliance with GDPR.
It is often a problem for small, medium and micro entrepreneurs to identify who is the processing manager and who is the processing executor, which is explained by the example of a bookkeeping service. In some cases, there may also be joint processing managers, such as a travel agency, a hotel chain and an airline, who have jointly set up a website to sell package deals.
What is important for entrepreneurs to know and what exactly can be considered personal data. These are all data relating to an individual whose identity has been established or can be established, while processing is any procedure or set of procedures performed on personal data or on personal data sets and can be performed by automated or non-automated means.
The principles that must be followed when processing personal data have also been clarified. Thus, it is not possible to process data outside the purpose for which it was collected. They must be appropriate, limited in purpose, to what is necessary and kept only for as long as is necessary for the purpose for which they are processed.
As part of the workshop materials, participants received templates for the implementation of the GDPR, which they can then adapt to their business, as well as a certificate of education issued by the Personal Data Protection Agency as the national supervisory authority responsible for monitoring GDPR in Croatia. The workshop is one of the activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency in the implementation of the EU project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs) with the aim of supporting micro, small and medium enterprises in aligning business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. Due to the great interest of entrepreneurs, two more free online workshops will be held in November, on November 12 and November 13.
We invite all micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to apply for free online workshops via the following links:
11/12/2020 https://www.hgk.hr/gdpr-besplatna-online-radionica-o-uskladivanju-poslovanja-s-opcom-uredbom-o-zastiti-podataka-12-studenoga-najava
11/13/2020 https://www.hgk.hr/gdpr-besplatna-online-radionica-o-uskladivanju-poslovanja-s-opcom-uredbom-o-zastiti-podataka-13-studenoga-najava
