Case number: NAIH / 2020/35/3.

Subject: Decision and procedure granting the application in part
partial termination order

History: NAIH / 2019/6755.
Before the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
upon the request of the Applicant (hereinafter: the Applicant), the personal data of the Applicant
for the purpose of carrying out a valuation - with […]
(hereinafter: Applicant I) and […] (hereinafter: Applicant II) (hereinafter
together: Applicants) on 11 September 2019
make the following decisions in the proceedings.
In the decision of the Authority
I.1. data processing of the Applicant's application after 25 May 2018
in so far as it seeks to establish its illegality
gives place and
I.2. finds that the Applicants have violated the personal data of natural persons
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data; and
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (hereinafter:
Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation), ie the principle of transparency, and
Applicant I has infringed Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, ie
the principle of accountability and the general right of the Applicant to protest
Article 21 (4) of the Data Protection Regulation
provisions
I.3. ex officio obliges the Applicant I to be involved in the performance of the valuations
reshape its balance of interests to give the appearance of mandatory data management referring to legislation
and calls on Applicants to inform the Applicant accordingly
with regard to the processing of data relating to valuation, in particular for the purpose of protest
about the law.
I.3. to take the measures provided for in point a
shall be in writing within 15 days of the decision becoming final
together with the submission of evidence, to the Authority.
II. the part of the applicant 's application for the Authority to determine the applicant' s
the unlawfulness of the transfer of your personal data to […]
rejects.
III. The Authority shall, by order of the official procedure, the data processing prior to 25 May 2018
examination
terminates.
ARC. The Authority will issue the Requested I ex officio due to the unlawful data processing carried out by it
HUF 500,000, ie five hundred thousand forints
data protection fine

obliges to pay.
V. The Authority shall issue the Requested II ex officio due to the unlawful data processing carried out by it
HUF 1,000,000, ie one million forints
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
No procedural costs were incurred during the official proceedings and therefore no costs were incurred
provided by the Authority.
VI. In view of the fact that the administrative deadline was exceeded, the Authority exceeded HUF 10,000, ie ten thousand
HUF to the Applicant, at his choice, by bank transfer or postal order
to pay.
The data protection fine shall govern the initiation of legal proceedings
15 days after the expiry of the time limit or, in the case of a review, by the court
within the Authority's centralized collection account for centralized revenue collection (1003200001040425-00000000 Centralized collection account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425 0000
0000). When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2020/35. JUDGE. should be
to refer to.
If the Applicants fail to comply with their obligation to pay the fine within the time limit,
are required to pay a late payment allowance. The rate of the late payment allowance is the statutory interest, which is a
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay. THE
in the event of non-payment of a fine and a late payment allowance, the Authority shall order the decision
implementation.
A I., II., IV. and V and Annex III. against an order under
there is no administrative remedy, but they are within 30 days of notification a
An action brought before the Metropolitan Court may be challenged in an administrative action. THE
shall lodge the application electronically with the Authority, which shall submit it together with the case file
forward it to the court. The request to hold a hearing must be indicated in the application. The procedure
in an action for annulment, the court will act in accordance with the rules of the simplified proceedings. THE
for those who do not benefit from full personal exemption, the judicial review procedure
its fee is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material fees. Before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory in these proceedings.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
I.1. The Applicant received data protection on 10 September 2019 by post
initiated an official procedure.
The Applicant has requested from the Authority the unlawful processing and transfer of his personal data
finding.
The Applicant submitted in his application that with the Applicant I on 7 October 2008
entered into a loan agreement, which was terminated by the Applicant I. on 12 June 2014. THE
2

the termination of the loan agreement was notarized. The claim is addressed to the Applicant I.
Assigned to Applicant II. The Requested II. at the request of the May 19, 2017 enforcement
claused the terminated loan agreement, on the basis of which enforcement proceedings were initiated a
Against the applicant. The executor carried out a valuation of the property in the summer of 2018.
The Applicant objected to the recovery or enforcement of the claim against him
during the II. (According to the Applicant, presumably together with the Applicant I)
on several occasions, most recently on 22 November 2018 to an “external” valuer
personal information. He has lodged several complaints in this connection and twice
also filed a complaint, one on 11 October 2013 and one on 7 January 2018.
The Applicant has attached a copy of the following documents:
-

Notarial deed […],
[…] letter,
[…] On December 9, 2018, Applicant II. letter addressed to the [...] branch,
Applicant II. Letter No. 363732898 to the applicant dated 3 January 2019
(hereinafter: letter No 363732898),
Reports made on October 11, 2013 and January 7, 2018,
[…] s. decision to reject an application,
[…] Bű. Minutes of the hearing of witnesses.

No. 363732898, dated January 3, 2019. according to the letter in which the Requested II. the
Applicant responded to its “notification” filed on December 12, 2018, the valuation process
the Applicant I continued, the Applicant II. and reviewed after the assignment as
claim holder. No. 363732298. letter does not indicate that the valuation and its
when the review took place, and which data processor is performed on behalf of the Applicant I.
el. According to the letter, the Applicant also used a lump sum debt settlement offer in the II. towards
which justified the fact that in order to make a substantive decision, the II. encumbered with a mortgage
conduct a property valuation review.
No. 363732898. In addition to the above, in response to the processing of personal data, the
referred to:
“Data processing referred to in EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR)
In view of the legal bases, we inform you that the processing of your personal data is subject to the provisions of on the day
In order to enforce a claim arising from a home loan agreement concluded with […].
It should be noted that according to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679,
Our company does not process your data without consent.
In the event of failure to provide personal data, the data will be provided as a basis
a data management purpose (such as enforcing a claim arising from a home loan agreement) may be impossible.
We consider it important to note that due to non-payment our Company was entitled to enforcement
initiate the issuance of a clause against you. The enforcement clause for issuance
personal data has been handed over to the competent notary as well as the enforcement clause
your personal data have been transferred to the competent executor after his or her issuance.
Please note that EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR)
According to the Company, your data may be recorded by our Company as long as the purpose of data processing is
There is a claim for you. ”
3

I.2.In the official procedure, the Authority will issue the Requested II for the first time on 29 October 2019
in order to clarify the facts.
The Requested II. - dated 20 November 2019 - according to the letter and annexes of the Requested I.
the assignment of his claim to the Applicant was made on 21 October 2014, and
16 May 2017 and - after 25 May 2018 - on 22 November 2018.
Valuation based on your existing agreement with II. Under the existing agreement
relied, on the one hand, on the basis of the II. the general
Article 6 (1) (b) of the Data Protection Regulation and that the
in the proceedings objected to the bailiff's bailiff and the court in connection with the objection
called on the Requested II to declare the value of the property, this was done by the Kecskemét
It was certified by a copy of the District Court's order of […] dated 12 November 2018. Furthermore, the
Applicant II. also referred to the fact that the Applicant had made a favorable lump sum payment offer.
The II. attached to his statement the request to carry out a valuation with I.
A copy of the “Business Contract” document dated July 22, 2019.
The II. According to him, both the summons of the court and the favorable offer of payment justified it
carrying out a valuation of the Applicant's property.
I.3.A Applicant II. was again invited by the Authority to make a statement on 9 January 2020
the Requested II. (hereinafter: Applicant's Declaration No. 2).
The Requested II. No. 2 According to the […] website, the […] link can be found on […] 's website
public information that the Applicant's business line I is for [..]
the valuation of the real estate carried out by the Applicant I.
assesses the properties used as collateral for […] after the hedging has taken place from 1 March 2006
concentrating real estate valuation tasks […]. The Requested II. the Applicant
he did not specifically inform about it. The Requested II. also notified the Authority that
in order to make the information even clearer for customers,
Applicant II. additionally, it completes its data management information and is included separately in the hedging
the transmission of data related to the determination of the value of real estate to the Applicant I.
I.4.The requested I. was invited by the Authority on 13 December 2019 to make a statement
provided the following information in its reply sent within the deadline:
From 1 March 2006, loans within the scope of […] Applicant I will be covered
the entire process of valuing the properties offered as collateral. Detailed on this
information can also be found on the Applicant I website, on the “Property Valuation” page. THE
According to the Applicant I, the Applicant was already aware of this when taking out the loan, as
even then, Applicant I valued the property. According to Statement I of the Applicant a
The Applicant could also expect that the Applicant I would continue to take out the loan
will prepare an appraisal opinion on the hedged property, as the information on this
itself […] no. can also be found in the notarized loan agreement, the following
according to:
“Pledgers undertake to tolerate that during the term of the mortgage the
The pledgee is entitled to the existence, condition and proper use of the pledged object, as well as the
Pledgors in their capacity as pledgers under this contract or as legislation
on-the-spot checks on compliance with the obligations incumbent on them. "

4

The Requested I. for the assessment of November 22, 2018 to perform primarily the same
used data that has already been used in connection with the valuation made on 16.05.2017
were available to them.
Complaint to the Applicant I regarding the valuation or related data management
not submitted by the Applicant.
The Requested II. ordered a valuation on the basis of which the Applicant I. on 22 November 2018
carried out a revaluation of the Applicant's property. Applicant I is the Applicant's appraisal
personal data processed for the purpose of preparing an expert opinion after 25 May 2018
legitimate interest. The Requested I. the data processed under the relevant legislation
Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code (a
hereinafter referred to as the Civil Code) until the expiry of the limitation period (5 years).
The Authority also invited it to make a statement in this regard in order to clarify the facts
He asked I. whether they had been informed about their data management related to the valuation
the Applicant pursuant to Article 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation and, if so, in that
In this case, attach the leaflet. The Applicant I attached to this notice of the Authority a
the current version of which is available on the Applicant's website I.
available (called “Real Estate Valuation Information Management Information”)
document).
According to the statement of the Applicant I, he acts as an independent data controller, as determined by the Applicant I.
the purpose and means of the management of the data relating to the valuation process, since
Applicant II. based on its own procedures and its own
using its IT systems.
The Applicant’s Annex I was in force on 1 April 2015 and was in force until 22 July 2019, the
Applicant I and Applicant II. a business set up to value real estate
a copy of the contract.
Applicant I uses subcontractors to perform the valuation tasks, who a
On behalf of the Applicant I, the given will be carried out in accordance with the performance order received from the Applicant I.
on-site condition survey related to real estate, as well as the value of turnover and loan collateral
a calculation proposal for the Applicant I will be prepared in connection with the determination of
In connection with the valuation of the Applicant's property on 22 November 2018, the Applicant's I.
acting on behalf of […], which qualified as a data processor in the course of its data processing. The
the Business Contract concluded with the Applicant II on 1 May 2018 for the data processor
"Data processing activities performed by a data processor" in Annex 13
applies on 1 May 2018.
Applicant I further stated that in the course of his activities he would comply with the
legal requirements for carrying out valuations, including non-agricultural land
on the methodological principles for determining the value of credit collateral for real estate
25/1997. (VIII.1.) PM. The personal data of the Applicant is required by law
as a result, it was absolutely necessary to deal with it in order to prepare an expert opinion.
In the attached balancing test, the Applicant I. in addition to the above legislation, the following
listed by:
•

Act XXX of 1997 on Mortgage Credit Institutions and Mortgage Bonds law
5

•
•
•

CCXXXVII of 2013 on Credit Institutions and Financial Undertakings law
54/1997 on the methodological principles for determining the value of credit collateral for arable land.
Decree of the Ministry of Finance (VIII.1.)
The Magyar Nemzeti Bank 11/2018. (II.27.) On financial institutions
management of real estate risks

II. Applicable law
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
The Regulation applies to all or part of personal data
automated processing of non-automated data
which are part of a registration system or which are part of a
intended to be part of a registration system.
According to recital 47 of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the data processing
legal basis is a legitimate interest, a prior balancing of interests must be carried out
it is necessary to determine, inter alia, the legitimate interest, the effect on the data subject and whether
whether the processing is necessary or proportionate and whether a legitimate interest or consideration is required
and whether the right of the data subject is superior.
According to Article 4 (10) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "third party" means a natural person
or a legal person, public authority, agency or any other body which is not the same
with the data subject, the controller, the processor or the persons who are the controller
or authorized to process personal data under the direct control of a data processor
they got.
Personal data pursuant to Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
must be handled lawfully and fairly and in a manner that is transparent to the data subject
("Legality, fairness and transparency")
Processing of personal data under Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
…
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over those interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms which call for the protection of personal data,
especially if the child concerned.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b), (c) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation
acting within the corrective power of the competent authority:
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with this Regulation
the exercise of his rights under this Regulation;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph.

6

Pursuant to Article 17 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, paragraphs 1 and 2 do not
applicable if data processing is required:
...
e) to file, enforce or defend legal claims.
Pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
protest at any time for reasons relating to his or her situation in accordance with Article 6 (1).
based on those provisions, including those provisions
based profiling. In this case, the data controller may not process the personal data
further, unless the controller proves that the processing is so compellingly legitimate
justified by reasons which take precedence over the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject
or to bring, assert or defend legal claims
are related.
Pursuant to Article 21 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation in paragraphs 1 and 2
this right shall be expressly invoked at the latest at the time of the first contact with the data subject
its attention and information in this regard clearly and from all other information
should be displayed separately.
Pursuant to Article 28 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the processing is
performed on behalf of another controller, the controller may only use data processors
who provide adequate guarantees regarding the processing of data in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation
appropriate technical and organizational arrangements to ensure compliance and protection of the rights of data subjects
measures.
Pursuant to Article 28 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, by the controller
processing of data which is governed by Union law or the law of a Member State
the duration, nature and purpose of the data, the type of personal data, the categories of data subjects and the
obligations or rights of the controller
which binds the processor to the controller. The contract or other legal
In particular, the act requires the processor to:
(a) process personal data only on the basis of written instructions from the controller, including
personal data to a third country or international organization
unless the processing is subject to an EU or EU law applicable to the processor
required by the law of a Member State; in this case, the data controller shall inform the controller of this legal requirement
prior to the processing of the data, unless the notification of the data controller is relevant to the relevant legislation
prohibits it in the public interest;
(b) ensure the confidentiality of persons authorized to process personal data
under an appropriate obligation of professional secrecy based on law
are available;
(c) take the measures provided for in Article 32;
(d) respect the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 and 4 for the use of an additional data processor;
the conditions referred to in paragraph 1;
(e) appropriate technical and organizational arrangements, taking into account the nature of the data processing
measures to the extent possible to assist the controller in
obligation to comply with Annex III requests relating to the exercise of the rights provided for in this Chapter
in terms of answering;
(f) assist the controller in complying with Articles 32 to 36. fulfillment of its obligations under Article
the nature of the data processing and the information available to the processor;
(g) the decision of the controller upon termination of the provision of the data management service
deletes or returns all personal data to the data controller and deletes the existing one
copies, unless Union or Member State law requires the storage of personal data;
(h) provide the controller with any information referred to in this Article
necessary to demonstrate the fulfillment of certain obligations and which allows
7

perform and facilitate audits by the controller or another auditor appointed by the controller,
including on-site inspections.
In relation to point (h) of the first subparagraph, the controller shall immediately inform the
controller if it considers that any of its instructions infringe this Regulation or the
or EU data protection provisions.
Pursuant to Article 83 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, all supervisory authorities
ensure that any infringement of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 is in accordance with this Article
The administrative fines imposed pursuant to this Regulation shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case
be dissuasive.
Pursuant to Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, administrative fines are imposed by
referred to in Article 58 (2) (a) to (h) and (j), as the case may be
should be imposed in addition to or instead of measures. When deciding if it is necessary
to impose an administrative fine or to determine the amount of the administrative fine
in each case due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement;
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
Technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) has been ordered orally
compliance with revolving measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42;
and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, the financial gain obtained as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement; or
avoided loss.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory authority
acting in its corrective capacity:
(a) warn the controller or processor that certain data processing operations are planned
its activities are likely to infringe the provisions of this Regulation;
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with this Regulation
the exercise of his rights under this Regulation;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations, where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period, bring this Regulation into line
with its provisions;
8

(e) instruct the controller to inform the data subject of the data protection incident;
(f) temporarily or permanently restrict the processing, including the prohibition of the processing
is;
(g) order personal data in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 respectively
rectification or erasure of data and restrictions on data processing, as well as Article 17 (2)
shall notify the addressees with whom it is addressed in accordance with paragraph 1 and Article 19
or with whom personal data have been communicated;
(h) withdraw the certificate or instruct the certification body in accordance with Articles 42 and 43
revoke a duly issued certificate or instruct the certification body not to grant it
issue the certificate if the conditions for certification are not or are no longer met;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph; and
(j) order the flow of data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
suspension.
3. Acting within the scope of the supervisory and advisory powers of the supervisory authority:
(a) advise the controller in the framework of the prior consultation procedure referred to in Article 36;
(b) on his own initiative or at his request, relating to the protection of personal data
the national parliament, the government of a Member State or the
other institutions and bodies and the public in accordance with the law of the Member States;
(c) authorize the processing in accordance with Article 36 (5), if the law of the Member State so provides in advance
subject to authorization;
(d) issue opinions and approve codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 (5)
draft;
(e) accredit certification bodies in accordance with Article 43;
(f) issue and approve certification certificates in accordance with Article 42 (5)
aspects;
(g) adopt the measures referred to in Article 28 (8) and Article 46 (2) (d)
general data protection provisions
(h) authorize the contractual provisions referred to in Article 46 (3) (a);
(i) authorize the administrative procedure referred to in Article 46 (3) (b)
agreements; and
(j) approve binding corporate rules in accordance with Article 47.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2) of the European Parliament (EU) 2016/679
and Council Regulation (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the general data protection regulation in accordance with Articles III-V. and VI / A. Chapter and Section 3 (3), (4),
6, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 23-24. Section 4 (5), Section 5 (3) to (5), (7) and (8)
§ 13 (2), § 23, § 25, § 25 / G. § (3), (4) and (6)
in paragraph 25 / H. § (2), 25 / M. § (2), 25 / N. §, 51 / A.
§ (1), Articles 52-54. § 55 (1) - (2), 56-60. §, 60 / A. §
(1) - (3) and (6), Section 61 (1) (a) and (c), Section 61 (2) and (3)
paragraph 4 (b) and paragraphs 6 to 10, paragraphs 62 to 71. § 72
in Section 75 (1) - (5), Section 75 / A. With the additions specified in § and Annex 1
should be used.
CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. 46 of the Act (hereinafter: the Act).
§ [Rejection of application]
The authority shall reject the application if:
(a) the statutory condition for initiating proceedings is absent and this law
it has no other legal consequences for it.
The Ákr. Section 47 [Termination of proceedings]
9

The authority shall terminate the proceedings if:
(a) the application should have been rejected but the reason for it was to initiate the procedure
came to the attention of the authority.
III. Authority decision
III.1. Data processing period examined
In the present proceedings, the Authority will only decide on the requested data processing on 25 May 2018.
the findings made in connection with the data management after the day of Section 47 (1)
In accordance with paragraph 1 (a), the Authority shall initiate the data protection authority proceedings before 25 May 2018.
terminated the data management part of the period as the request was not answered
and Infotv. Section 60 (2), since the requested data processing
The General Data Protection Regulation was not yet applicable for this part of the period
An application for an official data protection procedure may not be submitted to the Authority in respect of
III.2. Quality of data controllers for applicants
The Applicant I stated to the Authority that the purpose and means of data processing were independently
therefore an independent data controller, as it has its own procedures for preparing the expert opinion
also has. In the interest balance, he detailed his data management operations as well as the evaluation
legislation on the standards to be followed during the
It can be stated from the statements of the Applicants and the documents attached by them that a
In the framework of Outsourcing I, the Candidate will perform the valuation on a permanent basis for Candidate II,
Applicant II. it does not deal with real estate appraisal at all. The Requested II. the claim
the holder of the claim - and as an independent data controller - for the purpose of claim management, or the specific
case at the request of a court in enforcement proceedings relating to the valuation of real estate
ordered the performance of the valuation from the Applicant I in order to make a statement. The Requested
I. therefore carries out the valuation on the basis of the Applicant's contract with II.
In the opinion of the Authority, the Requested I can be considered as an independent data controller because it is independent
has a purpose for data management and makes substantive decisions about the conditions of data management itself
will not receive detailed instructions from the Applicant II. The Requested I.
determine which personal data of the Applicant is required for the expert opinion
and determine their storage period and, where appropriate, the
you can also decide to delete and destroy them.
III.3. The Requested II. data management
III.3.1. The Requested II. legal basis for the transfer of data
According to the Applicant's I. statement, the Applicant's II. ordered a new valuation, so in 2018.
carried out the valuation on 22 November. To perform the valuation primarily
used the same data as in Annex II. have already been made available in connection with the valuation prepared for your order on 16.05.2017. Dated April 1, 2015
Until 22 July 2019, the Applicant I and the Applicant II were in force. between, real estate
Clause 1.3 of the business contract concluded for the valuation of the company (hereinafter: the Contractor Contract)
pursuant to Annex II. uploads its orders to Applicant 's System I; and
attach your deed of ownership and a copy of the official land registry map, if any, to your order
does not yet have the requested II.

10

In view of the above, the Authority did not examine the requested Annex II. data transfer valuation
for the purpose of the Authority’s data protection authority proceedings for the period before 25 May 2018
in the part dealing with the examination of his data management.
The Contractor 2.2. “The Contractor - if necessary
with the rights - is entitled to download orders from the Customer's electronic system. "
According to Article 4 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "processing" means personal data
making it available in other ways, so that the Requested Annex II. by connecting to your system
provides access to the Applicant I, data processing regarding the personal data of the Applicant
for which it must have an appropriate legal basis. The Requested II. according to the statement
transmission of data for valuation purposes in accordance with Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
with reference to point. The Requested II. The plea in law relied on by the
due to:
The Authority considers that Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
with the exception of certain pre-contractual steps, is only applicable if
if it is necessary for the performance of the contract, so this plea cannot be extended as such
data processing operations for which the situation is due to the non-performance of the contract by the data subject
the Contracting Parties in order to remedy the situation
necessary to take action beyond that. They may still be covered by the contract
the steps taken by the data controller who concluded the contract with the data subject - that is, who
in the event of a delay in performance, the other party shall call on the person concerned to perform the contract.
However, it is contractual under Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The plea is no longer applicable in the event that the concessionaire is liable for non - performance
to enforce a claim against the data subject.
The contract was terminated on July 3, 2014. The fact of assignment and termination a
It is also recorded in the letter sent to the applicant on 8 November 2018.
Namely, the justification of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code (hereinafter: the Civil Code)
According to the Commission, the transfer of claims follows the same logic as the transfer of ownership, ie
the assignment is, in fact, nothing more than a transfer of ownership of the claim. The
by assignment, the claim is separated from the original legal relationship from which it arises, and
the concessionaire enters only in respect of the claim and not in respect of the fundamental relationship
in place of the transferor. By assigning the claim to the
from the fundamental right and the assignee becomes the holder of the claim, the assignment of the claim
enforcement of the contract, and no longer the performance of that contract
from which the claim originally arose, since in this case it is
the assignee should assert it not for his own benefit but for the benefit of the assignor
assigned claim. By assignment, if it is for consideration, the
receivable from the assignor in whole or in part, depending on the purchase price
return.
The contract concluded with the Applicant, from which the Applicant II. claim of the assignee
was transferred on 21 October 2018.
Processing of data pursuant to Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation -
if not the steps taken at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
is related to the performance of the contract and not to the post-assignment
for claim enforcement.

11

The Requested II. however, it also did so with reference to a lump sum, favorable payment offer
valuation, which is also Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation, for which
however, the existence of a legitimate interest must be established by a general balance of interests
on the basis of recital 47 of the Data Protection Regulation, which it did not do.
However, the above erroneous legal indication does not mean that Applicant II is the Applicant
there was no transfer of personal data for the purpose of ordering a new valuation
legal basis, since in order to determine the value of the hedging property in the management of the claim, and
in a specific case, the Kecskemét District Court - dated 12 November 2018 - […]
Applicant II may have a legitimate interest in
or, in the particular case, there was a legitimate interest in complying with the summons contained in the order.
III.3.2. Applicant II. valuation data management
The Requested II. the management of the data relating to the valuation carried out by the
use) of the Requested Annex II. Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph b), on the other hand, the execution of a summons and the payment of the Applicant
in the context of its offer.
The Authority considers that Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
with the exception of certain pre-contractual steps, is only applicable if
if it is necessary for the performance of the contract, so this plea cannot be extended as such
data processing operations for which the situation is due to the non-performance of the contract by the data subject
the Contracting Parties in order to remedy the situation
necessary to take action beyond that. They may still be covered by the contract
the steps taken by the controller who entered into the contract with the data subject - that is, who
the other party to the contract shall, in the event of a delay in performance, call on the person concerned to perform.
However, it is contractual under Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
The plea is no longer applicable in the event that the concessionaire is liable for non - performance
to enforce a claim against the data subject.
The contract was terminated on July 3, 2014. The fact of assignment and termination a
It is also recorded in the letter sent to the applicant on 8 November 2018
Namely, the justification of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code (hereinafter: the Civil Code)
According to the Commission, the transfer of claims follows the same logic as the transfer of ownership, ie
the assignment is, in fact, nothing more than a transfer of ownership of the claim. The
by assignment, the claim is separated from the original legal relationship from which it arises, and
the concessionaire enters only in respect of the claim and not in respect of the fundamental relationship
in place of the transferor. By assigning the claim to the
from the fundamental right and the assignee becomes the holder of the claim, the assignment of the claim
enforcement of the contract, and no longer the performance of that contract
from which the claim originally arose, since in this case it is
the assignee should assert it not for his own benefit but for the benefit of the assignor
assigned claim. By assignment, if it is for consideration, the
receivable from the assignor in whole or in part, depending on the purchase price
return.
The contract concluded with the Applicant, from which the Applicant II. claim of the assignee
was transferred on 21 October 2018.
Processing of data pursuant to Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation -
12

if not the steps taken at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
is related to the performance of the contract and not to the post-assignment
therefore cannot be upheld in the present case on the basis of this plea
reference.
The Requested II. however, it also did so with reference to a lump sum, favorable payment offer
valuation, which is the legal basis under Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation, which
However, the existence of a legal basis for a legitimate interest must be established by a balancing of interests
on the basis of recital 47 of the Data Protection Regulation, which, however, did not
me.
However, the above does not mean that the Applicant II has new personal data of the Applicant
there was no legal basis for its use in connection with the valuation, as in the handling of the claim
to determine the value of the hedged property, and in the specific case the Kecskemét District Court
- to comply with the order contained in its order of 12 November 2018 […]
legitimate interest of the Requested II or, in the specific case, the summons contained in the order
there was a legitimate interest in
III.3.3. Information to the applicant
Among the attached documents, there was no document containing the November 22, 2018 valuation
would have provided adequate information on the legal basis of the to the Applicant.
III.3.3.1. No. 363732898 sent to the Applicant - dated 3 January 2019.
reply letter, which is a reply to the Applicant's letters received on 12-09 and 10 December 2018,
nor did it provide adequate information on the legal basis of its data processing, as it only referred to
that no consent is the legal basis.
On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that the Requested II. it does not indicate in its information
clearly refers to the legal basis, only for the purpose of data processing, thus violating the general rule
Article 5 (1) (a) of the Data Protection Regulation, ie the principle of transparency.
It infringes Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
nor does it appear from the letter that the valuation and its revision
when it took place and who carried it out on behalf of the Applicant I. According to the letter, the Applicant
also applied for a lump sum debt settlement offer in the II. towards which it was justified to be substantive
In order to make a decision, the Applicant II. a review of the valuation of the mortgaged property
conduct it.
III.4. Data management of the Applicant I.
III.4.1. Legal basis for 2018.11. On the 22nd day of valuation and loan aftercare
question
Based on the attached documents and the Declaration of the Applicants, the Applicant I completed the examination on 22.11.2018.
valuation.
According to the statement of the Applicant I, he acts as an independent data controller, as determined by the Applicant I.
the purpose and means of managing the data relating to the valuation process. THE
Applicant I. - Article 2.18 of the Contractor Agreement. - treats the valuation for 5 years

13

personal data related to the application of the Civil Code, which according to the Statement of the according to the statute of limitations
adjusts to time.
According to the Applicant's Declaration I, the Applicant's personal data is subject to general data protection
pursuant to Article 6 (1) (f) of that Regulation.
The opacity of the Requested I data processing is caused by the fact that the public (published on the website)
according to the data management information, it is managed for that purpose by the person involved in the valuation
personal data that he has entered into a contract with the customer (in this case the Applicant II)
fulfill, ie prepare the expert opinion. These data with reference to the Civil Code for 5 years
however, this does not mean that this data can be reassessed
could use.
Based on the above, the Applicant I did not make it clear in his information (website
data management information) that the Requested I. for the purpose of valuation in 2017
the purpose and legal basis of the personal data received after the valuation
so that it could have used it for a new valuation, as it stated in its statement for 2018.
used mainly the same data for the evaluation on 22 November,
which were already available in connection with the valuation made on 16.05.2017. Erre
In view of the Authority, it found that Applicant I had violated the General Data Protection Act
the principle of transparency under Article 5 (1) (a) of this Regulation.
III.4.2.Breach of the principles of balance of interests and accountability
The existence of a legitimate interest is justified by a balance of interests in the general data protection
recital 47 of the basic Regulation. The Applicant I. satisfying the above a
attached a statement of interests to his statement.
The Authority found that the list of legislation listed in the balancing of interests was not
it is sufficient because a precise place of law should also have been indicated, which is a legitimate interest
supports.
Applicant I referred in his statement to the Authority that the Applicant
could expect the collateral to be valued after the loan was taken out
expert opinion.
Furthermore, Applicant I relied on Article [...]. notarial deed p. 9 Paragraph 3, according to which “A
Pledgers undertake to tolerate that during the term of the mortgage the
The pledgee is entitled to the existence, condition and proper use of the pledged object, as well as the
Pledgors in their capacity as pledgers under this contract and the law
on-the-spot checks on compliance with the obligations incumbent on it. "
The above reference of the Applicant I cannot be accepted either, as, as mentioned above, the
The contract concluded with the applicant was transferred on 21 October 2014, therefore a
in accordance with the foregoing, the assignment separates the claim from the original
from the legal relationship from which it arises and the assignee is solely the claim and not the
replaces the assignor in respect of a fundamental right. By making a concession
the claim separates from the basic legal relationship and the assignee becomes the holder of the claim, the
the enforcement of the claim by the assignee and the related data management are no longer valid
not for the performance of the contract from which the claim originally arose,

14

whereas in this case the assignee should not benefit himself but the assignor
enforce the assigned claim.
In addition to the above, it should also be noted that there is a precise legal position in the balancing of interests
mentioned in the Hpt. it does not entitle credit institutions but credit institutions
debtors (pursuant to Section 99 (3) of the Credit Institutions Act). The factor company has no data management authority
same as your credit institution. There is data that is handled by a credit institution
authorized, but this right to process data may not be transferred,
and Considering that Applicant I has no contractual relationship with the Applicant,
only the II. therefore only have the rights
with which the principal, ie in this case the credit aftercare, the Hpt. Section 99 (3)
with reference to paragraph
Given that, under Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
the data controller must be late in complying with the data protection requirements
but, on the basis of the above, its balance of interests does not
is capable of justifying its existing legal basis, the Authority therefore concluded that
Applicant I infringed Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
III.4.3. Information to the applicant
The Applicant I. at the request of the Authority to attach to the Applicant the valuation
provided for in Article 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation
copy of the information provided only on the website “Related to Real Estate Valuation Activity
data management information ”, which is a general information on page 7
and, on page 5 of which, in addition to the other rights of the data subject, there is also a reference to “... and
may object to the processing of such personal data ".
Given that the Applicant I - the statement sent to the Authority and is available on its website
In accordance with the “Data Management Information” - with reference to a legitimate interest for valuation purposes a
Personal data of the Applicant and should therefore have clearly informed the Applicant,
and should have drawn the Applicant's attention to the right to protest in such a way that it
be clearly separated from the other content items of the information.
Based on the above, it can be concluded that as the Applicant was not properly informed by the
data processing and the right to protest in connection with the valuation, therefore the Requested I
breached the information requirements of Article 21 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation
provision on the obligation to
III.4.4. Data was transferred to […] as a data processor
In connection with the valuation of the Applicant's property on 22 November 2018, the Applicant's I.
acting on behalf of […], which qualified as a data processor in the course of its data processing.
In this connection, the Applicant I. referred to the fact that the data processor can be found in Annex 13 of the Business Agreement concluded with the Applicant on 1 May 2018.
It is dated May 1, 2018, entitled “For data processing activities performed by a data processor”
contract applies.
Pursuant to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the main purpose of data processing is
data controller is responsible.

15

Article 4 of the General Data Protection Regulation defines who is a controller and who
to the data processor. The data controller is entitled to outsource certain data management tasks
and for this purpose a data processing order pursuant to Section 28 (3) of the General Data Protection Decree
a contract must be concluded. This does not require the consent of those involved in the processing.
The most important conceptual element is the requirement that the processor act "on behalf of the controller".
In data protection law, the task of the data processor is to execute the data provided by the data controller
instructions, at least as regards the purpose of the processing and the essential elements of the method.
Thus, in distinguishing between the quality of data controller and data processor, it is important that
who determines the purposes and means of data management and who is determined by the other
processes personal data on its own merits and not in its own name and on its own behalf.
According to the contracts attached by the Applicant I, […] is a general data protection
received a data processing order pursuant to Article 28 (3) of the Regulation
he may act only on the instructions of the Applicant I. In light of all this, the general
pursuant to Article 4 (8) of the Data Protection Regulation
during the valuation.
In view of the above, the Authority has established that the personal data of the Applicant are: a
Transferred by Applicant I to his data controller is covered by the General Data Protection Regulation
It does not constitute a transfer to a third party within the meaning of Article 4 (10). The general
Pursuant to Article 28 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation, the data controller
on behalf of the data controller, subject to the data management authority of its principal
adjust.
The Authority found that the above-mentioned company was the data controller of the Applicant I.
with regard to data processing, as it carries out its activities on the instructions of the Applicant I, and
does not make a substantive decision regarding the data processing - the
Attached to his statement sent to the Authority - dated 1 May 2018 “By the Data Processor
5.1-2. based on point.
Applicant I, as a data controller, may legally use it in the course of its data management
data processors, ie for the purpose of valuing […], the Applicant
by not transmitting the necessary personal data to the general public
provisions of the Data Protection Regulation, therefore the Authority is unlawful with the request of the Applicant
rejected the part aimed at establishing the transfer of data.
ARC. Legal consequences
The Authority granted the Applicant's request in part and Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
(2) (b) condemns Applicant I and Applicant II for
infringement of Article 5 (1) (a) of the Data Protection Regulation and the
Article 5 (2) and Article 21 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation
and instructed the Applicants to comply with Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
pursuant to paragraph (d).
In imposing the fine, the Authority took into account the following aggravating factors:
-

Inadequate data management for the valuation of Candidates
the infringement has been in existence since 22 November 2018, so that a

16

Since then, the applicant has not been able to exercise his right to protest (General
Article 83 (2) (a) of the Data Protection Regulation).
The Authority also considered the following other factors:
-

The violation is serious because the Requested I of the General Data Protection Regulation is transparent
infringed the principle of proportionality by giving the impression, in the context of the balancing of interests, that
as if he were processing a personal data subject on the basis of a legal obligation,
and the Requested II. also violated the general data protection regulation transparency
the principle of non-compliance with the right to which the data subject is concerned
(Article 83 (2) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation).

-

The violation committed by the Applicants is their intentional conduct, data processing
caused by their practice. (Article 83 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

-

The Requested II. Article 5 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
Much has already been done in connection with the breach of paragraph 1 (a)
NAIH / 2019/6689. in case no. where to pay a data protection fine of HUF 500,000
the Authority ordered the Requested II and where, as in the present case, the Authority is
found an infringement in the context of the information provided to the data subject.
(Article 83 (2) (e) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

In imposing the fine, the Authority took into account the following mitigating factors:
-

To convict the Applicant I for violating the General Data Protection Regulation
it hasn't happened yet. (Article 83 (2) (e) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

-

Based on the nature of the breach - a breach of the principles of data management - a fine may be imposed
pursuant to Article 83 (5) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation 20
EUR 000 000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide turnover in the preceding business year. (Article 83 (5) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

-

Based on the Profit and Loss Account of the Applicant I for 2018, the pre-tax profit
It was HUF [….] Million. The data protection fine imposed shall not exceed the fine that may be imposed
maximum. (Article 83 (5) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

-

The Requested II. Based on its income statement for 2018, its pre-tax profit
It was HUF […] million. The data protection fine imposed shall not exceed the fine that may be imposed
maximum. (Article 83 (5) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation)

In determining the amount of the fine to be imposed, the Authority shall take into account the specific purpose of the retaliation
also took into account the general preventive purpose of the fine, which, according to the
the data management practices of all market participants
to move towards legitimacy. The correct indication of the plea in law and
certification is an essential requirement for data controllers in all cases
they must prove.
V. Rules of procedure
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.

17

The Ákr. Section 112 (2) (d) and Section 116 (1) and Section 114 (1)
the decision and the order may be the subject of an administrative appeal.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
Pursuant to point (aa) of the Act, the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. A Kp. Section 27 (1)
(b), legal representation shall be required in legal proceedings before the General Court. A Kp. § 39
(6) of the application for the entry into force of the administrative act
has no suspensive effect.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: the e-administration Act), the client's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b)
obliged to communicate electronically.
The place and time of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
If the Applicants do not duly demonstrate that the required obligations have been met, a
The Authority considers that their obligations have not been fulfilled in due time. The Ákr. Section 132
if the Applicants fail to comply with the obligation set out in the final decision of the Authority
meet, it is doable. The decision of the Authority With the communication pursuant to Section 82 (1)
it becomes final. The Ákr. Section 133 of the Enforcement - if by law or government decree
unless otherwise provided by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. Pursuant to § 134 a
enforcement - if local in a law, government decree or municipal authority matter
the decree of the local government does not provide otherwise - it is carried out by the state tax authority. Infotv.
Pursuant to Section 60 (7), a specific act included in the decision of the Authority
obligation to perform, to behave, to tolerate or to stop
implementation of the decision shall be carried out by the Authority.
Pursuant to Section 46 (1) (a) of the Act, the authority rejects the application if the procedure
there is no statutory condition for initiating proceedings, and this law is different
has no legal effect.
The Ákr. Section 47 (1) (a) states that the authority shall terminate the proceedings if a
would have been the subject of the rejection of the application, but for a reason after the initiation of the proceedings
came to the attention of the authority.
In the course of the procedure, the Authority exceeded the Infotv. One hundred and fifty days according to Section 60 / A (1)
administrative deadline, therefore Ákr. Pursuant to Section 51 b), it pays ten thousand forints to the Applicant.

Budapest, July 16, 2020
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor
18

