 

process No. 9673/2018 1

Authorization No. 7116/2018

University of Minho, NIPC 502011378, notified the National Commission of

Data Protection (CNPD) a processing of personal data for the purpose of

to carry out a Clinical Study without Intervention, called QUALITY OF LIFE IN

ENDOMETRIOSIS: INDIVIDUAL AND MARITAL PREDICTORS, with Protocol no. -

-------.

Research is multicentric, taking place in Portugal at research centers

identified in the notification.

Exists

specific justification for the

processing of behavioral data,

psychological or volitional, which are directly related to inquiry.

The participant is identified by a code specifically created for this study,

constituted in such a way as not to allow the immediate identification of the data subject;

in particular, no codes are used that match the serial numbers.

identification, name initials, date of birth, telephone number, or result

of a simple composition of this type of data. The encryption key is only

known to the investigator(s).

The express consent of the participant or his/her legal representative is collected.

The information is collected directly from the holder.

Any transmission of information is carried out by reference to the code of the

participant and, to that extent, anonymous to the recipient.

The CNPD has already commented in Deliberation No. 1704/2015 on the legal framework,

the grounds of legitimacy, the applicable principles for the correct fulfillment

of Law No. 67/98, of October 26, amended by Law No. 103/2015, of August 24,

hereinafter LPD, as well as on the conditions and limits applicable to the treatment of

data carried out for the purpose of clinical investigation.

In the present case, the treatment that is the subject of the notification falls within the scope of

of that decision and the person in charge expressly declares that he complies with the limits and

conditions applicable under the LPD and Law No. 21/2014, of 16 April, as amended



process No. 9673/2018 2

by Law no. 73/2015, of June 27 – Clinical Research Law –, explained in the

Resolution No. 1704/2015.

The basis of legitimacy is the consent of the holder.

The information processed is collected in a lawful way, for a specific purpose, explicit

and legitimate and not excessive – cf. lines a), b) and c) of no. 1 of article 5 of the LPD.

Thus, under the combined provisions of paragraph 2 of article 7, paragraph a) of the

paragraph 1 of article 28 and article 30 of the LPD, as well as paragraph 3 of article 1 and paragraph 9

of article 16.º both of the Clinical Investigation Law, with the conditions and limits

explained in CNPD Deliberation No. 1704/2015, which are hereby given as

reproduced, the present processing of personal data is authorized in the following

terms:

Responsible – University of Minho

Purpose - Clinical Study without Intervention, called QUALITY OF LIFE IN

ENDOMETRIOSIS: INDIVIDUAL AND MARITAL PREDICTORS, with Protocol no. -

-------

Category of personal data processed – Participant code; age/date of

birth; genre; aggregate composition

familiar without

identification of

members; clinical history data;

relating to sex life; data from

caregivers/companions (only those related to the needs of the

participant); quality of life data/psychological effects; related to the activity

professional in connection with the Investigation; behavioral, psychological or

volitional in connection with the Investigation

Exercise of the right of access – Through the researchers, in person

communications,

interconnections and

flows

cross-border personal data

identifiable in the recipient – There are no

Maximum data retention period – The key that produced the code that

allows the indirect identification of the data subject must be deleted 5 years after the

end of the study.

process No. 9673/ 2018 3

 

 

LPD and the Clinical Investigation Law, under the terms and conditions set forth herein

Authorization and developed in CNPD Deliberation No. 1704/2015, result

obligations that the person responsible has to fulfill. These must be made known to all

those involved in the processing of personal data.

 

Lisbon, 24-05-2018

 
The president

 

Filipa Calvão

