1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00153/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: COMMUNITY OF OWNERS OF ***ADDRESS.1 (*hereinafter, the
claimant) dated October 3, 2019 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against the entity
SALBEGAP, S.L. (*hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons on which the
claim are succinctly the following:

“breach of agreements by one of the owners of different flats
of the Community, in relation to the withdrawal of video-surveillance cameras installed
in different community areas” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (doc. No. 1) that proves the

Installation of cameras in the entrance area to the property.

SECOND: On 11/04/19, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the entity
denounced so that he could allege what he deemed appropriate in law.

THIRD: On 12/12/19 a letter of allegations is received from the entity
ESSENCE HERITAGE, S.L. stating the following:

“It is specified that the company Essence Patrimonios S.L only has
proof of the existence of a single camera on the farm owned by the company
tenant of the main floor 1st.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, we would appreciate any request for
formulate clarifications or provide any information, be notified directly to the
tenant of the apartment in question (SalbeGap S.L), as Essence holds ownership of the
floor, but being completely unrelated to the activity carried out by the tenants
(SalbeGap S.L)”.

FOURTH. On June 23, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH. The database of this Agency consulted on 10/20/20 does not contain
any allegation in relation to the facts reported by this body.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 10/03/19 a claim is received at this Agency motivated by the following-
following:

“breach of agreements by one of the owners of different flats
of the Community, in relation to the withdrawal of video-surveillance cameras installed
in different community areas” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (doc. No. 1) that proves the
Installation of cameras in the entrance area to the property.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible for the installation of the system
of video-surveillance cameras—SalbeGalp S.L--.

Third. There is no evidence that the reported entity has the authorization
of the Board of Owners for the installation of cameras in common areas.

Fourth. There is evidence of the existence of various video-surveillance cameras that
process data of third parties, installed in common areas, devoid of informative signs
tive about it.

Complainant Evidence Document (Annex I) the cameras are installed in

the wall, controlling access to the property without just cause.

Fifth. The entity denounced has not made any allegation in this regard,
the Start Agreement of PS/00153/2020 as notified in the database of this
Agency.

Sixth. There is no accredited evidence that the mandatory information poster is available, indicating
where appropriate, the data controller and other requirements required by the regulations.
active in force.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 10/03/19 is examined by me-
of which the following facts are brought to the attention of this agency:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

“breach of agreements by one of the owners of different flats
of the Community, in relation to the withdrawal of video-surveillance cameras installed
in different community areas” (folio nº 1).

The facts are specified in the installation of various video-surveillance cameras
presence by the accused in common areas of the property, without the autho-
Certification of the Board of Owners, obtaining images of neighbors of the property.

After the allegations made by the denounced entity, indicated initially
mind by the complainant, it is concluded that the person responsible for installing the system
is the entity (lessee) of the property—SalbeGap S.L--.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
must be oriented towards private space, since it is considered that this type of
devices can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimidated by the
herself in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

So that a community of owners can install surveillance cameras in their
common areas, it is necessary that said installation be agreed by the Board of
owners, taking into account, for this, what is established in article 17 of the Law of
Horizontal property on the votes necessary for the approval of said agreement
(favorable vote of three-fifths of the total owners who, in turn, re-
present three-fifths of the participation quotas).

With this type of device it is possible to control the access of the property
ble, controlling entrances/exits of neighbors, who are affected in their privacy

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

personal / family to be subject to permanent control with them, aspects that
may be subject to reproach in other branches of law for affecting the right to
privacy (art. 18 EC).

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant (a) has a system of
maras, installed without the authorization of the board of owners, obtaining
images of common area without just cause.

The images provided allow verifying the presence of various cameras
video-surveillance systems installed in the common areas of the building, with the clear purpose
quality of access control, affecting the data of third parties that are observed
two permanently for the same.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.

mado, for violation of the content of article 5.1 c) RGPD.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the fiscal year
previous financial statement, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction to be imposed, the following is taken into account:

a)

a)

the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question as well
such as the number of affected parties and the level of damages
that they have suffered;

the intentionality or negligence in the infringement; when affecting transit area
of the group of neighbors of the community of owners without just cause
each.

All this means imposing a sanction encrypted in the amount of €2,000 (Two Thousand

Euros), sanction located on the lower scale for this type of offending behavior.

The denounced party must prove that they have the consent of the Board of
owners for the installation in a common area of this type of system, contribute in its
case screen print of what is observed with the camera in question, as well as
claim what it deems appropriate, proceeding to the immediate regularization of the following
situation described.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity SALBEGAP, S.L., for an infraction of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine encrypted in the amount
aunt of €2,000 (Two Thousand Euros).

SECOND: TO REQUEST the reported entity SALBEGAP S.L to regularize
the situation, granting for this purpose a period of ONE MONTH to be counted from the next day.
following the notification of this resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the denounced entity SALBEGAP,
SL and REPORT the result of the proceedings to the denouncing party
COMMUNITY OF OWNERS OF STREET ***ADDRESS.1.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the term of payment
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
Department of Data Protection at the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case of
Otherwise, it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

