
The Agency for Personal Data Protection in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce invites you to a free online interactive workshop How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which will be held on Tuesday, December 1, at 9 am.
If you process personal data, you are required to apply the GDPR.
The GDPR is mandatory for all companies operating in the European Union and for all companies that have data from European citizens.
You may feel that you do not process personal data, but the storage of personal data of clients / employees, for example. in a file on a computer is considered the processing of personal data.
During the workshop, which will also consist of practical exercises, you will have the opportunity to ask questions and clarify your concerns regarding the legal framework for personal data protection and gain the necessary knowledge to adequately implement the provisions of the GDPR.
Upon completion of the workshop, you will receive a Certificate of Completion issued by the Personal Data Protection Agency as the national supervisory authority responsible for monitoring the implementation of the GDPR in the Republic of Croatia.
The workshop is intended for micro, medium and small entrepreneurs from the Karlovac and Lika-Senj counties.
The GDPR does not have to be an administrative burden or an obstacle, but, on the contrary, an opportunity to regulate your business and increase operational efficiency!
Participation in the workshop is free, the number of participants is limited to 200, and you can apply via the form at the link https://www.hgk.hr/gdpr-besplatna-online-radionica-o-uskladivanju-poslovanja-s-opcom-uredbom -about-data-protection-1-december-announcement
This workshop is one of the activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency in the implementation of the EU project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs), aimed at supporting micro, small and medium enterprises in aligning business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (aka acronym GDPR ).
