1/9

863-240719

Procedure No.: PS/00091/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00406/2019

In procedure PS/00091/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to the entity EDITORIAL DE PERIODISTES, S.L., given the
complaint filed by Mr. A.A.A., and by virtue of the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 16, 2019, entry is registered in this Agency
claim filed by Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), at the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, stating the following:

“I have been receiving a newsletter from ***URL.1 for a long time, to which I
I have never subscribed. On several occasions I have tried to unsubscribe, both through
of the link in the messages (which directs me to a contact form on your
web, which I have filled out and sent, showing me a confirmation message of
sending the communication) such as sending an email directly. Never
I have received a response, and I continue to receive the newsletter.”

The claimant attaches the following documentation:

- Copy of a newsletter from the digital weekly “Últimes notícies d,El Triangle”
(in Spanish, “Latest news from El Triángulo), sent on January 16, 2019
from the email address ***EMAIL.1 to the email address
***EMAIL.2.

- Printing of the Internet headers of the aforementioned shipment.

- Screenshot showing the cancellation request sent on January 16
of 2019 by the claimant to the aforementioned digital newspaper so as not to continue receiving more
bulletins, and in which he pointed out that he had already sent that message in several
occasions. Said request was sent through the contact form included in
the web page ***URL.1, whose reception was confirmed that same date with the
following message: “Thank you for completing the form! T, write aviat.” (in Spanish,
Thank you for filling out the form. We'll get back to you right away). In said request the
complainant indicates that he had already sent the same message on several occasions.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim, on the 12th of
February 2019, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed,
in accordance with article 65 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights and for the purposes
provided for in its article 64.2, admit for processing the claim presented by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

claimant.

THIRD: On February 19, 2019, it is verified, as a result of the consultation
made to the application of the AEPD that manages records of sanctions and
previous warnings regarding data protection, which the EDITORIAL
DE PERIODISTES, S.L., with CIF B57194862, does not have any prior records for
breach of data protection.

FOURTH: On March 7, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against EDITORIAL DE
PERIODISTES, S.L., for the infringement of the provisions of article 6.1.a) of the
REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL, of
April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to
to the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data and for which
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) is repealed, (as regards
successive RGPD), typified in article 83.5.a) of the same legal text, and qualified as
very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.b) of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), giving a deadline for allegations.

The notification of the start agreement to the company EDITORIAL DE
PERIODISTES, S.L., was made through the Electronic Notifications Service and
Electronic Address Enabled, stating March 8, 2019, as the date of
made available to the aforementioned act and March 19, 2019 as the date of rejection
automatic, Expired, of said notification.

The notification to the claimed one was tried to practice through the State Company
Post and Telegraph, S.A. on Avenida Joan March, in Palma de Mallorca, address
in which the claimed party was unknown, as stated in the Certificate issued by
said Society.

 

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On January 16, 2019, the claim is received at this Agency
filed by the claimant, for receiving a newsletter sent from
www.***URL.1, which I have never subscribed to. On several occasions he tried to
unsubscribe, both through the link in the as well as by sending an email directly
electronic. He never received a response, and he continues to receive the newsletter

SECOND: The claimant attaches a copy of a weekly news bulletin
digital “Últimes notícies d,El Triangle” (in Spanish, “Latest news from El Triángulo),
sent on January 16, 2019 from the email address ***EMAIL.1 to
email address***EMAIL.2 ; the internet headers of that submission; Y,
screenshot showing the request for withdrawal sent on January 16,
2019 by the claimant to the aforementioned digital newspaper so as not to continue receiving more
bulletins, and in which he pointed out that he had already sent that message in several
occasions. Said request was sent through the contact form included in
the web page ***URL.1, whose reception was confirmed that same date with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

following message: “Thank you for completing the form! T, write aviat.” (in Spanish,
Thank you for filling out the form. We'll get back to you right away). In said request the
complainant indicates that he had already sent the same message on several occasions.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to
each control authority, and as established in art. 47 of LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 43 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure

Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, provides:

“Article 43. Practice of notifications through electronic means.

1. Notifications by electronic means will be made through
appearance at the electronic headquarters of the Administration or Acting Body,
through the single enabled electronic address or through both systems, depending on
provided by each Administration or Agency.

For the purposes provided in this article, it is understood by appearance at the headquarters
electronically, access by the interested party or his duly identified representative to the
notification content.

2. Notifications by electronic means shall be understood to have been made in the

moment in which access to its content occurs.

When notification by electronic means is mandatory, or
has been expressly chosen by the interested party, it will be understood as rejected when
Ten calendar days have elapsed since the notification was made available
without accessing its content.

3. The obligation referred to in article 40.4 shall be deemed fulfilled with the
made available for notification in the electronic headquarters of the Administration or
Acting body or at the unique authorized electronic address.

4. Interested parties may access the notifications from the Point of
General electronic access of the Administration, which will function as a portal of
access." (The underlining is from the AEPD)

Article 41.5 of the same rule, states in relation to the "Conditions

guidelines for the practice of notifications” that:

"5. When the interested party or his representative rejects the notification of a
administrative action, it will be recorded in the file, specifying the
circumstances of the notification attempt and the means, considering the procedure completed and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

following procedure."

In view of what is stated in articles 43.2 and 41.5 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015,
the practice of notification of the agreement to initiate this
process.

III

Since May 25, 2018, the Regulation (EU) is applicable

2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, RGPD.

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that
concern you;”

In accordance with these definitions, the treatment of the address of
e-mail address of the claimant to send him a newsletter constitutes a
automated processing of that personal data of the interested party. In this case the
e-mail address used for the referral of the aforementioned shipment contains and
provides information about an identified natural person, since it is made up of
the first name, part of the compound first surname and second surname of the claimant.

III

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the specific assumptions under which
considers the processing of the personal data of the interested parties to be lawful,
establishing in section a) the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

“Article 6. Legality of the treatment

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

for one or more specific purposes. “

Said precept is complemented by the provisions of article 7 of the same

legal text, which provides the following:

“Article 7. Conditions for consent

1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the
responsible must be able to demonstrate that he consented to the treatment of his
personal information.

2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a declaration
writing that also refers to other matters, the request for consent will be
presented in such a way as to be clearly distinguishable from other matters, in a manner
intelligible and easily accessible and using clear and simple language. It will not be binding
any part of the declaration that constitutes an infringement of these Regulations.

3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any
moment. The withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment
based on consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving your consent, the
Interested party will be informed of this. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

4. In assessing whether consent has been freely given, account will be taken
to the greatest extent possible whether, among other things, the execution of a
contract, including the provision of a service, is subject to the consent of the
processing of personal data that is not necessary for the execution of said
contract."

For its part, article 17.1 b) of the RGPD establishes:

“Article 17. Right of deletion (“the right to be forgotten”)

1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain, without undue delay, from the controller
of the treatment the deletion of the personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete personal data without undue delay when any
of the following circumstances: (...)

b) the interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment of
in accordance with Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a) and
it is not based on another legal basis;”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)

“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case”

In the present case, it is taken into account that on January 16, 2019, the
claimant received in his email account a newsletter from the
digital weekly "El Triangle" without evidence that said treatment, carried out
carried out by EDITORIAL DE PERIODISTES, S.L., complies with the principle of legality by having
denied by the interested party the existence of consent on his part for the
treatment of your email address for this purpose.

This conduct constitutes, on the part of EDITORIAL DE PERIODISTES, S.L.,

infringement of the provisions of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD.

Article 83 section 5 of the RGPD provides that: “The infringements of the
following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with fines
administrative fees of EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, of
an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount: a) the
basic principles for processing, including conditions for consent
under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9.

The LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, typifies in its article 72: "Infringements

considered very serious:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations. About
when it is appropriate to opt for one or the other route, the application of article 83 of the RGPD
or the corrective measure of warning of article 58.2.b), the rule itself in its
Recital 148 of Regulation 2016/679, which establishes the following:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

This infraction is sanctioned with a warning, in accordance with article
58.2.b) of the RGPD, as it is a small company and considers that the fine
administrative that could fall in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the
RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for it, in addition to the fact that at the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

said company is not aware of the commission of any previous infraction in
matter of data protection.

Considering the aforementioned precepts and others of general application,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE EDITORIAL DE PERIODISTES, S.L, for an infringement of the
article 6 of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the
cited RGPD and, qualified as very serious in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD to the
effects of its prescription, a sanction of WARNING in accordance with the
provided for in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

SECOND: ORDER the entity EDITORIAL DE PERIODISTES, S.L., as
responsible for the treatment, the deletion of the personal data of the claimant in order to
of not continuing to receive the newsletter, as well as the contribution to it of
means of evidence accrediting compliance with the requirements.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity EDITORIAL DE
PERIODISTES, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

