THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 August 25, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 Event tip Tuesday, September 28, 2021, 9 a.m.:

"GDPR on the test bench"

 

exchange of experiences and support

For companies

 
At the

Tuesday,

28

September,

to discuss

the

State representative

for

the data protection

and

the

Freedom of information Stefan Brink and representatives from the

economy and the chambers of industry and commerce from 9 a.m

online and on site at the IHK in Stuttgart about the effect

the General Data Protection Regulation - how it is implemented,

what works well, where improvements would make sense.

In addition to the exchange of experiences and fundamental

provide considerations of the General Data Protection Regulation

Experts of the state representative in short presentations concrete

Information on the application of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Interested parties can get answers to the question of how

company with

technical and organizational

Measures to avoid fines and what to do when

Creation of a concept for the deletion of personal data

- 2 -

data is to be observed. Visitors can also find out how

small companies with the help of the LfDI tool "DS-GVO.clever"

relatively easy to design their own data protection notices

can and what when using social media,

Microsoft Office products and video conferencing systems

is important from a data protection point of view. From the

perspective of

Freedom of information is reported as

Business enterprises have access to the for their activities

Data treasures of public authorities

in Baden-Wurttemberg

can get.

The event is organized by the LfDI in cooperation with the

IHK Region Stuttgart.

meeting

"GDPR on the test bench"

When? Tuesday, September 28, 2021, 9:00 a.m. - 2:30 p.m

Where? Online via live stream and on site at the IHK,

Jägerstrasse 30, 70174 Stuttgart. The number of participants is

limited.

Further information and program: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ds-gvo-und-wirtschaft-

exchange-and-short-presentations/

 

