1/9

Notice No. 35/2019 of February 6, 2019

Subject: Draft Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree of May 22, 2017 determining the contact data referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1, 17° of the Law of August 8, 1983 organizing a National Register of Natural Persons as well as the modalities for their communication and registration (CO-A-2018-203)

The Data Protection Authority (hereinafter "the Authority");

Considering the Law of December 3, 2017 regarding the establishment of the Data Protection Authority, particularly Articles 23 and 26 (hereinafter "LCA");

Considering Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter "GDPR");

Considering the Law of July 30, 2018 regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "LTD");

Considering the request for opinion from Jan Jambon, Minister of Security and the Interior received on December 7, 2018;

Considering the additional information received on December 12 and 19, 2018;

Considering the report of Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere;

Issues, on February 6, 2019, the following opinion:

Opinion 35/2019 - 2/9

I. Subject and context of the request

1. The Federal Minister of Security and the Interior (hereinafter "the requester") seeks the opinion of the Authority on his draft Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree of May 22, 2017 determining the contact data referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1, 17° of the Law of August 8, 1983 organizing a National Register of Natural Persons (hereinafter, the LRN) as well as the modalities for their communication and registration (hereinafter, the draft RD).

2. Only the provisions in the draft that call for a comment from the Authority regarding the usual criteria of quality of laws regulating the processing of personal data within the meaning of the GDPR will be examined below.

3. Article 3, paragraph 1, 17° of the LRN provides that any citizen may, on a voluntary basis, communicate their contact data to the National Register services for them to be recorded in the National Register. The RD of May 22, 2017 implemented this provision of the LRN by determining the types of contact details that can be recorded for this purpose (landline phone number, mobile phone number, fax number, and email address) as well as the modalities for the communication and modification of these data. The Privacy Protection Commission, the predecessor of the APD, expressed its opinion on this draft RD in its Opinion 04/2017.

4. According to the report to the King of the current draft RD submitted for opinion, the modifications currently contemplated for this aforementioned RD of May 22, 2017 aim, on the one hand, to encourage citizens to register their contact data in the National Register (as they are not yet sufficiently inclined to communicate their email address or phone number) and, on the other hand, to respond to one of the remarks made by the APD in its Opinion 04/2017 regarding the lack of reliability and quality over time of the contact data and the risks this may pose for citizens.

II. Preliminary Remark

5. The APD considers that the choice to insert contact data into a database such as the National Register is not appropriate in terms of efficiency and risks leading to uses of this data in a manner that is not compliant with the GDPR, whether in terms of proportionality, legality, or data quality.
Notice 35/2019 - 3/9  
6. It notes that the present project must be coordinated with the federal government's E-box project and refers to the notice it issued on May 23 regarding the draft law on the electronic exchange of messages with public authorities (notice no. 47/2018).  

7. Finally, the APD considers that it is also appropriate to avoid any redundancy with existing models such as the "user management" service of the Federal Authentication Service (FAS) of the DG Digital Transformation of the SPF Strategy and Support; this type of service offers better guarantees in terms of efficiency.  

III.  
Review  

8. The remarks regarding the present draft AR concern:  

a. The verification of the security guarantees that will be offered by the IT applications that may feed the National Register at the level of citizens' contact data;  
b. The consequences of the voluntary nature of the mention of contact data in the National Register and their subsequent use;  
c. The general authorization for the use of this contact data integrated into the project;  
d. The compatibility of the project with the principle of unique data collection as stated in the LRN;  
e. The issue of the reliability of contact data over time.  

III. a. Security of contact data communications to the National Register  

9. Article 1 of the draft AR provides that for each contact data communicated or modified, the IT application through which this communication was made must be mentioned. In order to increase the number of contact data recorded in the National Register, Article 2, 1° of the draft AR provides that contact data may now be communicated "through an internet application made available to the public by another public authority," whereas currently the sources feeding the National Register regarding this data are limited to the web applications of the National Register services or municipalities.  

1 https://dt.bosa.be/fr/identification_et_securisation/federal_authentication_service  

Notice 35/2019 - 4/9  
10. First of all, the Authority notes the broad nature of the wording referred to in Article 1 of the draft AR. According to this provision as currently formulated, any IT application of any public authority may serve as a means of communication of contact data to the National Register.  

11. According to the information in the report to the King, these are web applications (tax on web, websites of social security authorities, etc.). The APD recommends using the term "web application" instead of IT application.  

12. Furthermore, in order to ensure both the predictability of contact data communications to the National Register and the prior verification of the implementation by the data controller of the web application of the required security conditions, the Authority recommends that the draft AR exhaustively determine the public authorities that will be authorized to make these communications and that it be provided that their web applications that will feed the National Register be certified by the services of the National Register after a favorable opinion from the "digital administration" service of the SPF Strategy and Support or the information security committee established under the law of September 5, 2018, establishing the information security committee.  

III. b. Voluntary nature of the mention in the RN and its use – nature of consent under the GDPR  

13. Article 3, paragraph 1, 17° of the LRN provides that the communication of contact data to the National Register can only take place on a voluntary basis. This implies that both the processing of data consisting of communicating contact data obtained directly from the data subject to the National Register and the processing of consulting the contact data within the National Register are personal data processing operations that can only have as a legal basis under the GDPR the consent (Article 6.1.a GDPR); this consent must meet the required conditions set out in the legal definition of consent and in Article 7 of the GDPR.  

14. In execution of Article 25 of the GDPR, the guarantees and organizational measures regarding the informed nature of this consent deserve to be improved. It does not matter the source (the data subject or a third public administration) that will feed the National Register.  

2 "Any manifestation of free, specific, informed, and unambiguous will by which the data subject agrees, by a declaration or by a clear affirmative action, to the processing of personal data concerning them" (Article 4, 11. GDPR)
Notice 35/2019 - 5/9  
with the contact data, the only information that the aforementioned AR of 2017 and the present draft AR require to be communicated to the concerned individuals is as follows: “the fact that the contact data that the citizen intends to communicate will be accessible and may be used by a number of bodies that have been authorized to access it” (art. 2, para. 2 AR 22/05/2017) and “the list of bodies authorized to consult the legal information related to the contact data” (art. 2, 4° of the draft AR), in addition to the reminder of the voluntary nature of the communication of this data and the possibility to modify or delete it at any time (art. 2, para. 2 AR 22/05/2017). However, without specifying the concrete purpose for which the contact data will be used or the specific authorities that will use it for these concrete purposes, the informed and specific nature of the expression of will cannot be established. Furthermore, the specific nature of consent implies that the concerned individual must be able to consent to their contact data being used by a public authority X but prefer that a public authority Y contact them by regular mail. The draft AR must be improved on this point. One option would be to provide for the collection of two consents: the first, for the mention in the RN and the second, for its use by a specific public authority and for a specific purpose. This latter consent must, by its nature, be collected by the very authority that will, on this occasion, provide the concerned individual with all the information required under Article 13 of the GDPR and in the forms required by Article 12 of the GDPR.

15. The authentication of the concerned individual during the collection of their consent for the mention of the contact data in the National Register is addressed in Article 2 of the draft AR. For electronic communications of the contact data, it is required that the authentication of the concerned individual be carried out through their electronic identity card or “one of the electronic identification means that are offered (equivalent – addition by the author due to the omission by the author of the draft AR) at least at a substantial level within the authentication service referred to in Article 9 of the Law of 18/07/2017 on electronic identification.”

16. The determination of the required level of assurance must be improved to meet determined and clear criteria. According to the additional information obtained, the substantial level of assurance referred to in the draft is that referred to in Article 8 of the European Regulation (EU) 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 23, 2014, on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and its implementing regulation (EU) 2015/1502 of September 8, 2015, establishing the technical specifications and minimum procedures relating to the levels of assurance of the electronic identification means referred to in Article 8, §3 of the aforementioned Regulation 910/2014. It is therefore appropriate to specify this explicitly in the draft AR.
Notice 35/2019 - 6/9

17. Furthermore, the DPA questions the choice of the required level of assurance for identification/authentication means other than the identity card. Given that, according to the additional information obtained, the Belgian identity card meets the high level of assurance referred to in the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 910/2014, why not stipulate that other means of identification/authentication that citizens would use when electronically communicating their contact data must ensure a level of assurance similar to that of the identity card, namely a high level of assurance? This is all the more important since Article 7.1 of the GDPR requires the data controller to be able to demonstrate that it is indeed the data subject who has given consent to the processing of their data.

18. Finally, public authorities that transfer contact details to the National Register that they have collected from their users may only do so after clearly informing these users about this transfer and obtaining their explicit and specific consent in this regard. The DPA emphasizes the importance of complying with the formal and substantive conditions applicable to consent and the transparency requirements set out in Articles 7 and 12 of the GDPR, to which it refers all concerned public authorities.

19. The DPA also draws the attention of the concerned public authorities to the fact that the requirement for this specific consent prevents any authority that already possesses such contact data from communicating it to the National Register on its own initiative.

III. c. General authorization for access to citizens' contact data included in the National Register

20. Article 2 of the draft Royal Decree recalls the principle of prior authorization for access to the data of the National Register by integrating it into Article 2, paragraph 2 of the aforementioned Royal Decree of 22/05/2017, but at the same time provides for a new paragraph 4 in Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 22/05/2017 that contains a general authorization for access to the contact data of citizens included in the National Register for all Belgian public authorities authorized to access data from the National Register "when this information is necessary for the performance of the missions and tasks of general interest entrusted to them by or under a law, decree, or ordinance." This proposed provision should be removed from the draft Royal Decree for the following reasons:
a. Since the entry into force of the law of November 25, 2018, containing various provisions concerning the National Register and population registers, only the Minister of the Interior has the competence to grant access authorizations to the National Register. The King does not have this competence.
b. The wording of the proposed general authorization is too broad and leaves authorized public authorities with a margin of maneuver that is not compatible with the principle of prior authorization provided in the LRN and the requirement for prior consent for the use of contact data also provided in the LRN. The quality criteria of the regulations governing the processing of personal data imply a clear determination of the categories of public authorities that are authorized to consult the contact data of citizens from the National Register and the operational purposes for which they will use them, the duration of data retention, as well as measures aimed at ensuring fair processing of this data.
c. Furthermore, by providing that any public authority that already has access to the data of the National Register will have access to the data, the draft assumes that public authorities authorized to consult the data of the RN referred to in Article 3 of the LRN are authorized to contact their users; which is not necessarily the case.
d. Finally, given the legal requirement for the processing of this contact data based on the consent of the data subjects as provided in Article 3, paragraph 1, 17° of the LRN, this contact data may only be consulted after prior authorization from the Minister and obtaining the consent of the data subject in the sense of the GDPR (cf. point 11).

III. d. Issues regarding the quality of contact data over time

21. To address the comments made by the CPVP in its opinion 03/2017 regarding the unreliability of the contact data that will be recorded in the National Register, the draft Royal Decree submitted for opinion adds a paragraph 5 to Article 2 of the Royal Decree of 22/05/2017 prohibiting the use of this data "for official notifications or for taking legal actions against the holder of the contact data" unless "a law, decree, or ordinance stipulates otherwise or after the express and prior consent of the holder of the contact data." The author of the draft Royal Decree should clarify that this refers to consent in the sense of Article 4, 11° of the GDPR. Furthermore, the DPA notes that:
a. The categories of users of the RN data are exhaustively determined in Article 3 of the LRN. It is not within the King's competence to review them. The terms "by an authority, a competent body, or a third party" should be removed.
b. The DPA considers that the prohibition on the use of contact data for official notifications or for taking legal actions against individuals...
Notice 35/2019 - 8/9  
concerned constitutes an adequate guarantee for the individuals concerned to ensure the fair nature of the processing of this data and limits the risks that would arise from the use of outdated contact data. It is recommended to define the notion of "official notification."  
c. That being said, since the legal basis for this data can only be the consent of the individual concerned (cf. above), the 2 exceptions to the prohibition on processing the proposed contact data must be cumulative and not optional. The "or" in paragraph 5 of the draft article 2 of the AR of 22/05/2017 must therefore be replaced by an "and."  

22. To ensure the quality of the email address registered as contact data in the National Register, the Authority recommends that it be imposed on the services of the National Register to send citizens, at least every 2 years, an email or preferably ordinary mail to inquire about the current status of their address. In case of no response from them, a specific mention regarding this matter must be indicated in the National Register at the level of this data.  

III. e. Compatibility of the draft with the principle of unique data collection set forth in the LRN  

23. The APD also notes the incongruity of the situation that will be created by the application of Article 6, §1 of the LRN to public authorities authorized to consult citizens' contact data in the National Register. Under this provision, they will no longer be able to directly ask their users for their phone number or email address. This situation will represent a total break from the current constant practice of many administrations. The Authority questions whether this situation has been adequately understood by the author of the draft AR and recommends that this issue be addressed if necessary.  

III. f. Compatibility of the draft with Article 4 of the LRN  

24. The authority finally notes that opening the feeding of the National Register to third authorities outside the municipalities and the services of the National Register makes the modification of Article 4 of the LRN necessary, given that according to this provision, only the authorities responsible for maintaining waiting lists, population registers, and consular records transmit ex officio to the National Register the information mentioned in Article 3, paragraph 1 (including contact data) and that they are responsible for the compliance of the information transmitted with the acts and documents they hold.  

For these reasons,  
In addition to its preliminary observations, the Authority,  

Considers that the draft AR must be adapted in accordance with the following remarks:  
1. Adaptation of Article 1 of the draft AR in accordance with recitals 9 and 10;  
2. Implementation of guarantees ensuring the specific and informed nature of the consent of the individuals concerned regarding the mention of their contact details in the National Register and their subsequent uses (recital 12);  
3. Clearer determination of the level of guarantee required for the identification/authentication means of citizens who communicate their contact data electronically and justification or rectification of the choice made not to require in all cases the same level of guarantee as that of the identity card in light of the requirements of the GDPR regarding the security of personal data (recital 15);  
4. Deletion of the proposed paragraph 4 of Article 2 of the aforementioned AR of 22/05/2017 (recital 18);  
5. Corrections to the proposed paragraph 5 of the aforementioned AR of 22/05/2017 in accordance with recital 20;  
6. Insertion into the draft AR of measures aimed at ensuring the timely updating of contact data (recital 20);  
7. Alignment of the draft AR with the principle of unique data collection provided for in the LRN (as applying to all data in the National Register) and adaptation of Article 4 of the LRN (recitals 21 and 22).  

(signed) An Machtens  
(signed) Willem Debeuckelaere  
Acting Administrator  
President,  

Director of the Knowledge Center