1/12

 File No.: PS/00473/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated 08/19/2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the MINISTRY OF HEALTH of the C.C.A.A. of
MADRID, with CIF S7800001E (hereinafter, the claimed party). The reasons in which
the claim is based on are as follows: the claimant states that a third party has
used his identity to change his affiliation to another Health Center and that
After filing police complaints, a new appointment has been given to the person who usurped his
identity.
And it provides:

- "List of pending appointments" document dated 08/05/2020 where
contains the name and surname of the claimant, in "date of birth" it contains
“11/26/1988” and there are two appointments in the month of August 2020.
- "List of health problems" document dated 08/05/2020 where
contains the name and surname of the claimant, in "date of birth" it contains
“11/26/1988”.
- "List of pending appointments" document dated 08/18/2020 where
There is an appointment for 08/10/2020 at the Health Center ***CENTRO.1.
- Police report.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred, within the scope of the
E/10590/2020, to the respondent on 10/08/2020, to proceed with its analysis and
inform this Agency within a month of the actions carried out to
comply with the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.
The entity has not responded to the transfer of the claim.

THIRD: On 12/21/2020 the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts,
having knowledge of the following extremes:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

On 05/26/2021, a request for information is sent to the claimant. The
notification is made electronically through notific@. The notice consists
delivered on 05/27/2021. No response received.

FIFTH: On October 6, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD and Article 5.1.d) of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On 10/06/2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of articles 5.1.d) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and
83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.
SEVENTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the person claimed by means of a written
10/14/2021 I request the correction of the initial agreement; correction that was
notified by agreement of 10/26/2021.
On 11/15/2021, the respondent submitted a brief of allegations stating in summary:
that there had been problems in the registry of the internet office, reason why
which at the time could not have knowledge of the information requirement of the
AEPD; that upon receipt of the initiation agreement, its correction was requested and that
subsequently, he proceeded to respond immediately to the requests for information
confirming that there had been no identity theft in
the person of the claimant but a human error in the identification of two citizens
with the same name and surname.
EIGHTH: On 11/18/2021 a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following;

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/10590/2020.
Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
PS/00473/2021 presented by the respondent and the documentation that they
accompanies.

NINTH: On 02/14/2022 the requested Resolution Proposal was notified in the
sense that the Director of the AEPD sanctioned the defendant for infraction
of articles 5.1.d) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the
GDPR, with warning.
After the period established by the claimant, at the time of this Resolution,
He had not submitted any brief of allegation.
TENTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 06/11/2020 it has entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the affected person stating that at the beginning of 2020 he requested for the first
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

turn your health card to the health center ***CENTRO.2, ; that dated 08/05/2020 to
request an appointment online with your doctor, you could only request an appointment for the health center
***CENTRO.1, C/ ***ADDRESS.1, Madrid; than calling the health center
***CENTER.2 checks that your DNI is correct but they also tell you that your
address is at C/ ***DIRIMIENTO.2 (Vallecas) and the telephone number is not the
yours; that someone has changed your data, although to carry it out you must comply
with a protocol: identify yourself and provide the registration certificate
updated, management that the health center ***CENTRO.1 seems to have omitted and has
caused another person to impersonate your identity; Although he has never used the
public health, there are reserved appointments and a medical history that does not correspond to him;
that has filed police complaints, although they have not taken any action or
have communicated with him.
SECOND. The claimant has provided a document List of pending appointments of the
Madrid Primary Health Care Service dated 08/05/2020, document
List of health problems dated 08/05/2020 and document List of appointments
pending dated 08/18/2020 (where there is an appointment for 08/10/2020 in the
Health Center ***CENTRO.1), relating to the third party whose name, surnames, coincide
with the claimant.
THIRD. There is evidence provided Complaint before the National Police, dependencies of
Madrid-Retreat on 08/06/2020.
FOURTH. The defendant in writing of 08/10/2021 has indicated that "the incidence
produced has its origin in the fact that there is another citizen who coincides in name and
surnames with the complainant, that is, there has been no impersonation of
identity as such of the citizen, but because of a human error in the
identification, by not following the established protocols, gave rise to confusion
produced.
In this way, once the pertinent investigations have been carried out, it has been possible to
conclude that, on the administrative record of the claimant, a change was made in the
domicile of the same to have served the citizen with the same name and
surnames, without having verified the applicant's DNI or passport.
FIFTH. The respondent has provided a report issued on 09/15/2021 by Management
Primary Care Assistance in which the events that occurred and
indicate the existing security measures and those adopted to prevent
similar incidents occur.
SIXTH. There is a communication addressed to the citizen of 10/05/2021, where
reported that, once the pertinent investigations had been carried out, in the month of
September 2020 they proceeded to rectify ex officio those data of their history
clinical and population information that were recorded by mistake.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

4/12

The facts denounced are motivated by identity theft
of the claimant by a third party on the occasion of the change of their affiliation to another Center
of Health without a response to your claim.

In the first place, the RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that have
of governing the processing of personal data and mentions among them that of accuracy,
pointing out:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the personal data to be erased or rectified without delay
that are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed
("accuracy");
(…)”
The foregoing must be put in relation to article 5, Accuracy of the
data, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), which
states in section 1:

"1. In accordance with article 5.1.d) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the data will be

accurate and, if necessary, updated

(…)”
And Recital 71 of the RGPD provides that, "(...) in order to guarantee a
fair and transparent treatment with respect to the interested party, taking into account the
specific circumstances and context in which personal data is processed, the
data controller must use mathematical or statistical procedures
suitable for profiling, applying technical and organizational measures
measures to ensure, in particular, that factors that introduce
inaccuracies in personal data and the risk of error is minimized,
secure personal data in a way that takes into account possible risks
for the interests and rights of the interested party and prevent, among other things, effects
discrimination against natural persons for reasons of race or ethnic origin, opinions
politics, religion or belief, union membership, genetic condition, or health status
or sexual orientation, or treatment that gives rise to measures that produce such an effect".

III

The infraction that is attributed to the claimed one is typified in the
article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:
“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”.

IV

From the documentation in the file, it is evident that the person claimed
has violated article 5.1.d), principle of accuracy, in relation to article 5 of the
LOPGDD, Accuracy of the data, by confusing character data in its identification
of the claimant with those of a third party with the same name and surname without
have verified the DNI or passport as established by the protocol.

In relation to the aforementioned article and its updating (which would be the
of the principle of accuracy that could be understood as breached), requires that
“reasonable measures to eliminate or rectify without delay the data
data that are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed”.

In other words, article 5.1.d) does not impose the adoption of disproportionate measures to
update the data, but the reasonable ones, taking into account the available means and the purpose
for which the data is used. This is also expressed in recital 39 of the RGPD.

In relation to this principle, in recital 39 of the GDPR, among other
issues indicates that "(...) to ensure that personal data is not kept
longer than necessary, the data controller must set deadlines for
its suppression or periodic review. All reasonable steps must be taken to
ensure that inaccurate personal data is rectified or deleted.

The claimant considers that a third person has used his identity to
change their affiliation to another Health Center and that a police report was filed
has given a new appointment to the person who usurped his identity, violating the principle of
accuracy that must govern the personal data, contemplated in the article
5.1.d) of the RGPD, as well as article 5.1 of LO 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of personal data and guarantee of digital rights.

Principle of accuracy, which is one of the essential manifestations
of the fundamental right of protection of personal data (article 18.4 CE), and that
in the present case, it has been violated as manifested by the defendant himself
when he points out that "It was found out that there is another patient who coincides in name and
surnames with the claimant…In this way, once the inquiries have been made
pertinent, it has been possible to conclude that, on the administrative file of the claimant,
made a change in the address of the same to have served the citizen with the
same name and surnames, without having verified the applicant's DNI or passport.

However, in its letter dated 10/08/2021, it states that “In turn, we must
reference that in compliance with the principle of accuracy contained in article 5 of the
GDPR, according to which the data processed must be accurate and, if necessary,
updated; by the person responsible for the treatment, all the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

reasonable measures to promptly erase or rectify the data
that are inaccurate, and proactively, we have proceeded ex officio to
cancel from the claimant's medical record the records that did not correspond to his or her
person".

And that therefore "it is confirmed that there has been no impersonation
identity of the interested party, if not that the incident occurred is due to human error
in the identification of two citizens who have the same name and surname,
having detected the same, in a proactive way, the different
consequences that could have materialized.

Second, it should be noted that the security of personal data

It is regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD.

v

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:
"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.
2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies

of “Infringements considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance
to what is required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
(…)”

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as “all
those breaches of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

SAW

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications of
that the claimed party has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when an incident of
security as a result of the breach of the measures established to
avoid errors in the identification of users.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that are subject
of treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate.
to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the technical and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:
“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the provisions
in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the risks
inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption. These
measures must ensure an adequate level of security, including the
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this case, as evidenced by the facts and in the case file
of investigation E/10590/2020 the AEPD transferred the claimed on 10/08/2020 the
claim submitted for analysis and reporting to this Agency
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the
data protection regulations.

The respondent has alleged in relation to what is indicated in the second antecedent of
that no response had been given to the transfer of the claim presented, that everything has
been due to problems in the registration of the internet office, which caused it to not
could have earlier access to the requests sent by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, which has meant that some notifications received are not
have been able to respond in a timely manner.

However, the responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the bankruptcy of
security revealed by the claimant, since it is responsible for taking
decisions aimed at effectively implementing technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
to ensure the confidentiality of the data and prevent access to them in
case of physical or technical incident.

It seems evident that in the present case the measures established
to avoid errors in the identification of users as credited in the report
issued on 09/15/2021 by the Primary Care Assistance Management in which
describe the events that occurred, indicating that: “By sharing a name and surnames,
we understand that there has been a problem of unique identification of
citizens by managing both appointments and changes in the database
population dated 04/08/2020 and must be reinforced with the Health Centers
security actions involved in the processing of appointments for the
unique identification of citizens with the use of magnetic stripe readers
summons by means of the DNI or passport" and that "After the analysis carried out, it was concluded
that a change of address was made on the claimant's administrative file
from the CS ***CENTRO.1 when the “transient” citizen was attended to, to the
match your name and surname data, without having verified the unequivocal data of
ID card or passport".
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

Likewise, the respondent indicated in his letter of 10/08/2021: “Thus, it has been
produced a problem in the identification of the citizen to have managed so much
citations as the change in the population base without having applied the indications
prior to unequivocal identification...”.

Therefore, it is estimated that the defendant is responsible for the violation of article

32 of the RGPD, infringement typified in its article 83.4.a).

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories

responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

7th

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the present case, the defendant has violated the regulations regarding
protection of personal data both from the principle of data accuracy
as well as their safety principle.

According to the available evidence, said conduct
constitutes by the claimed party an infringement of the provisions of articles 5.1.d) and 32.1
of the GDPR.

It should be noted that the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 77 the sanction of
warning in relation to the processing of personal data that is not
match your forecasts. In this regard, article 83.7 of the RGPD contemplates that
“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

Likewise, it is contemplated that the resolution issued may establish
measures to be taken to stop the behavior, correct the effects of the
infraction that had been committed and its adequacy to the requirements contemplated in
Articles 5.1.d) and 32 of the RGPD, as well as the provision of supporting means of the
compliance with what is required.

However, the respondent has acknowledged the mistake made, pointing out that
on the claimant's administrative record, a change was made in the address to
have served a citizen with the same name and surnames without having
checked the DNI or passport, which caused the violation of the principle of
accuracy and the breach of the security measures implemented for the
identification of users in domicile exchange operations, as well as for the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

request for appointments, system provided by the respondent in the report issued on
09/15/2021 by the Primary Care Assistance Management.

Finally, it is indicated that although the measures indicated for the personnel that
performs these functions, they were already aware of them, since
Every fortnight the Espacio AP Madrid (regular information space
for Primary Care professionals), the next update will include
new review in the form of "Did you know that...", emphasizing the need for
observance of the established protocol. Also in the next training courses
will expressly affect the section on data protection and identification of
users.

Therefore, in light of the foregoing, it is considered that the response of the
claimed has been reasonable, correcting the incidence not proceeding to urge the
adoption of additional measures, having adopted measures of a technical and
organizations in accordance with the regulations on data protection for
prevent situations like the one that gave rise to this from happening again
claim, which is the main purpose of the procedures with respect to those
entities listed in article 77 of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE HEALTH MINISTRY of the COMMUNITY OF
MADRID. with CIF S7800001E, for an infraction of articles 32.1 and 5.1.d) of the
RGPD, typified in articles 83.4.a) and 83.5.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of
warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF HEALTH of the
MADRID'S COMMUNITY.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

through the

if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

