 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  16/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  the  Czech  Republic  regarding  the 
approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

Adopted 

Adopted on 25 May 2020 

 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ............................................................................................................... 4 

ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ................................ 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

PREFIX .............................................................................................................................. 6 

2.2.2 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 6 

2.2.3 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ............................................................ 7 

2.2.4 

RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................. 8 

2.2.5 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS................................................................................................ 8 

2.2.6  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.................................................................................................10 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS.........................................................................................10 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................11 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The  main  role  of  the  Board  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  Regulation  2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by  encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

 (3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism,  this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority,  the  supervisory  authority  should  establish  accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 

 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted 

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should  be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision  of  the  Chair,  this  period  may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

The  Czech  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “CZ  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 17 February 2020. 
The CZ national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify 
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the CZ SA, once they are approved by the CZ SA, following an opinion from the 
Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies. 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

3. 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the CZ SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 

 

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

Adopted 

4 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation.  

This assessment of CZ SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore it  will not make reference to the text of  the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the  CZ 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the CZ SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the CZ SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

5 

Adopted 

 
Taking into account that: 

10. 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board  shall  issue  an  opinion  where  a  supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX  

11. 

12. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship  between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

2.2.2  GENERAL REMARKS 

The Board notes that the draft accreditation requirements do not completely follow the structure set 
out in Annex 1 to the Guidelines. For example, the sections on “scope” and “terms and definitions” 
are  missing.  In  this  regard,  for  the  sake  of  clarity  and  to  allow  for  an  easier  assessment  of  the 
requirements,  the  Board  considers  that  the  numbering  and  the  overall  structure  of  the  document 
could be improved. Therefore, with the aim to facilitate the assessment, the Board encourages the CZ 
SA to follow the structure of the Annex in the draft accreditation requirements and add the missing 
sections,  being  of  special  relevance  the  definition  of  the  terms  used  throughout  the  document. 
Moreover, the Board notes that the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements refer several times to 
the  respective  ISO  17065  section  or  to  the  respective  sections  of  the  Annex,  without  specifying 
however such reference. Thus, the Board encourages the CZ SA to make clear the references to the 
sections of the ISO 17065 and of the Annex. 

Adopted 

6 

13. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  refer  several  times  to  the 
“evaluated  object”  (e.g.  sections  3.2.1.2.1.2.10;  3.2.1.2.6.3.1;  3.2.1.2.8.1.6.3;  3.2.1.2.10.4.1; 
3.1.2.10.7.3.1; 3.1.2.10.7.3.2 and 3.2.1.2.10.10.2). The Board understands that this term is used as a 
synonym for the “target of evaluation”. However, in order to ensure clarity, the Board encourages the 
CZ SA to use the term “target of evaluation” consistently.  

14. 

The Board notes that several requirements are not formulated as an obligation of the certification 
body (e.g. 3.2.1.2.2 and 3.2.1.2.3). The Board  encourages the CZ SA to redraft the requirements to 
make clear that they are mandatory -I.e. start the requirement with ‘the certification body shall [...]”. 

2.2.3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

15.  Concerning  the  certification  agreement  (section  3.2.1.2.1.2  of  the  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements),  the  Board  notes  that  subsection  3.2.1.2.1.2.2  does  not  make  any  reference  to  the 
“contractually  confidential  matters”,  to  which  the  SA  shall  also  have  access.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends the CZ SA to amend the draft, by including the obligation to provide access to the SA to 
contractually confidential matters as well.  

16.  With  regard  to  subsection  3.2.1.2.1.2.8  of  the  CZ  SA’s draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board 
notes that it is unclear as to whom the information shall be disclosed. Therefore, the Board encourages 
the CZ SA to clarify who will be the recipient of the information. Moreover, the information referred 
shall be “necessary for granting certification”, as set out in section 4.1.2 point 7 of the Annex.  The 
Board recommends the CZ SA to replace “information about granting certification” by “information 
necessary for granting certification”.   

17.  Regarding subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.9 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it is unclear what 
type of information should be communicated directly to the Board. Article 42(8) GDPR sets out an 
obligation for the Board to collate, inter alia, all certification mechanisms. In this context, it is assumed 
that the competent SAs will provide the relevant information to the Board, who will then publish it on 
the public register. Therefore, the Board recommends the CZ SA to clarify subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.9 of 
the draft requirements in line with Article 42(8) GDPR.    

18.  Concerning subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.12 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes 
note of the fact that the CZ SA created a reworded version of part of the requirement foreseen in the 
Annex.  The  CZ  SA,  however,  omitted  a  reference  to  [where  applicable]  “the  consequences  for  the 
customer should also be addressed”. The Board therefore recommends the CZ SA to add the missing 
part of the requirement mentioned above.  

19.  Additionally, subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.13 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements establishes the 
obligation  to  “contain  a  commitment  of  the  applicant  to  inform  the  certification  body  about  all 
changes that may affect compliance of the certificated object with the certification criteria”. The Board 
considers this formulation too generic, and recommends the CZ SA to amend the draft requirements 
in  order  to  include  “all  changes  in  its  actual  or  legal  situation  and  in  its  products,  processed  and 
services concerned by the certification”.  

20.  Concerning  the  use  of  data  protection  seals  and  marks  (section  3.2.1.2.1.3  of  the  CZ  SA’s  draft 
accreditation requirements), the Board notes that the CZ SA’s draft requirements establish that the 
certification agreement shall contain “rules of using certificates, seals and marks if provided by the 
certification scheme owner”. The same formulation is found in subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.14. The Board 
considers that this obligation is already covered by item 4.1.2.2. letter I) of ISO 17065 and, therefore, 

7 

Adopted 

it should be contained in any certification scheme (see also item 4.1.3 of ISO 17065). Thus, for the sake 
of clarity, the Board recommends the CZ SA to delete the aforementioned sections.  

21.  With regard to the requirements on  the management of impartiality, according to the information 
provided by the CZ SA in the template, section 4.2.1.b) and 4.2.2 of the Annex are sufficiently covered 
by item 4.2 of ISO 17065. However, the Board considers that these requirements shall be explicitly 
included  in  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  developed  by  the  SAs  in  line  with  the  Annex. 
Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  CZ  SA  to  include  the  missing  requirements  regarding  the 
management of impartiality foreseen in the Annex.  

22.  With  regard  to  the  requirement  on  liability  and  financing  (section  3.2.1.2.3.1  of  the  CZ  SA’s  draft 
requirements), the Board encourages the CZ SA to specify that it has to be ensured on a regular basis.  

2.2.4  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

23.  Concerning  certification  body  personnel  (section  3.2.1.2.8.1.6  of  the  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements),  the  Board  notes  that  the  requirements  for  personnel  responsible  for  evaluations 
(subsection  3.2.1.2.8.1.6.3)  include  “5-year  practice  with  at  least  10  performed  audits  carried  out 
within certification activity in the same or similar field [...] or 5-year practice within certification of the 
objects  of  certification  body  focus)”.  Similarly,  the  requirements  for  personnel  responsible  for 
decision-making  (subsection  3.2.1.2.8.1.6.4)  include  “at  least  5-year  practice  with  at  least  10 
performed  audits  carried  out  within  certification  activity  in  the  same  or  similar  field”.  The  Board 
considers  that  the  expertise  requirements  for  evaluators  and  decision-makers  should  be  tailored 
taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In this regard, the Board is of the opinion 
that  evaluators  should  have  a  more  specialist  expertise  and  professional  experience  in  technical 
procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), whereas decision-makers should have a more general and 
comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data protection. Considering this, the Board 
encourages  the  CZ  SA  to  redraft  this  subsection  taking  into  account  the  different  substantive 
knowledge and/or experience requirements for evaluators and decision-makers.  

24. 

Furthermore,  the  Board  takes  note  that  point  3.2.1.2.9.1  of  the  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements states that outsourcing is not allowed for certification activities. However, the following 
point  allows  the  use  of  external  auditors  and  external  experts  for  evaluation,  unless  it  constitutes 
certification activities. The Board considers that the draft accreditation requirements should specify 
when  “it  constitutes  certification  activities”  or  clarify  that  the  certification  body  will  retain  the 
responsibility  for  the  decision-making,  even  when  it  uses  external  experts.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends the CZ SA to amend the draft accordingly.  

2.2.5  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

25. 

The Board notes that section 3.2.1.2.10.1.1 of the CZ SA’s draft additional requirements refer to “all 
the additional  requirements concerning a conflict of interests (7.1 point 1)”.  However, the CZ SA’s 
draft additional requirements do not contain additional requirements concerning conflict of interest. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the CZ SA to amend the draft in order to avoid confusion.  

26.  With regard to the application requirements, the Board notes that subsection 3.2.1.2.10.2.3 of the CZ 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements seems to imply that information on the transferred data shall 
only  be  provided  in  the  application  when  the  transfer  is  to  a  third  country  or  international 

8 

Adopted 

organisation. However, the Board underlines that the applicant shall always contain a description of 
the data transferred to other  systems or organisations, regardless of their  location. Therefore, the 
Board encourages the CZ SA to amend the wording in order to avoid confusion.   

27. 

The Board notes that the obligation to lay down in the certification agreement the binding evaluation 
methods (section  3.2.1.2.1.2.6  of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements) does not contain  a 
reference to the Target of Evaluation, as per item 1 section 7.3 of the Annex to the Guidelines.  For 
clarity purposes, the Board encourages the CZ SA to include such reference.  

28.  Moreover,  the  Board  notes  that  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  foresee  the  situation  in 
which  processors  are  used  to  carry  out  data  processing  operations,  in  line  with  the  Annex  to  the 
Guidelines  (section  3.2.1.2.10.2  of  the  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements).  The  Board 
encourages  the  CZ  SA  to  consider  whether  a  reference  to  joint  controllers  and  their  specific 
arrangements should also be mentioned in this case. 

29.  Regarding the evaluation requirements (section 3.2.1.2.10.4 of the CZ SA’s draft requirements), the 
Board  notes  that  the  CZ  SA’s  accreditation  requirements  do  not  contain  the  obligation  of  the 
certification body to set out in detail in its certification mechanism how the information required in 
item 7.4.6 ISO 17065 shall be provided to the applicant about non conformities from a certification 
mechanism. As set out in the Annex (subsection 7.4), at least the nature and timing of such information 
shall be defined. Therefore, the Board recommends the CZ SA to add the aforementioned obligation.  

30.  Moreover, subsection 3.2.1.2.10.4.2 of the CZ SA’s draft requirements seems to limit the evaluation 
methods to testing, auditing or inspections. The Board considers that other evaluation methods could 
also be used and, therefore, it encourages the CZ SA to amend the draft in order to make clear that 
the enumeration is not exhaustive.  

31.  Concerning subsection 3.2.1.2.10.4.4.1.4 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board 
considers that the requirements should clearly state that the certification body is obliged to check the 
compliance with the criteria, and encourages the CZ SA to amend the draft accordingly.  

32.  With regard to the review requirements (subsection 3.2.1.2.10.5  of the CZ SA’s  draft accreditation 
requirements),  the  Board  observes  that  the CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  do  not  make 
reference to the obligation to set out procedures for the granting and revocation of certifications. The 
Board recommends the CZ SA to amend the draft accordingly.  

33.  Concerning  the  requirements  on  certification  documentation,  the  Board  notes  that  section 
3.1.2.10.7.2 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements states that the certification body shall 
specify  that  monitoring  is  a  condition  of  validity  of  certification  “if  monitoring  required  by  a 
certification scheme [...]”. The Board considers that, in the case of certification under the GDPR, the 
monitoring activities are always mandatory and, therefore,  recommends the CZ SA to include such 
obligation. 

34.  With regard to the requirements related to the directory of certified products (section 3.2.1.2.10.8 of 
the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements and 7.8 of the Annex), and particularly, the obligation to 
inform the competent SA of the reasons for granting or revoking the requested certification, the Board 
notes that the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements refer to section 3.2.1.2.10.4.5. However, such 
section concerns the obligation to make the evaluation documentation accessible to the CZ SA upon 
request, whereas the requirement in section 7.8 of the Annex to the Guidelines contains an obligation 

Adopted 

9 

to proactively inform the SA of the reasons for granting or revoking the certification. Therefore, the 
Board recommends the CZ SA to amend the draft accordingly.  

35.  Regarding  the  changes  affecting  certification,  the  Board  notes  that  the  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements do not mention, among the procedures to be agreed, the approval process with the 
competent SA, referenced in the Annex to the Guidelines (page 19). The Board acknowledges that the 
list provided in section 7.10 of the Annex is not mandatory. However, in order to ensure consistency, 
the Board encourages the CZ SA to add a reference to the approval process with the SA.  

36. 

The  Board  observes  that  the  CZ  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  do  not  clearly  include  the 
obligation of the certification body to accept decisions and orders from the competent SA to withdraw 
or not to issue certification to an applicant if the requirements for certification are no longer met. The 
Board  recommends  the  CZ  SA  to  clearly  include  such  obligation  in  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements. With regard to the termination, reduction, suspension or withdrawal of certification, 
the Board notes that sections 3.2.1.2.10.10.2 and 3.2.1.2.10.10.3 of the draft requirements refer to 
an “instigation”. If the intention is to refer to “decisions and orders” from the SA, as established in 
article 58(2)(h) GDPR, the Board encourages the CZ SA to use the same terminology as the GDPR, and 
refer to “decisions and orders”.  

2.2.6 

 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  

37. 

The Board considers that section 3.2.1.2.11 of the CZ SA’s draft additional requirements do not contain 
the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  “make  public  permanently  and  continuously  which 
certifications  were  carried  out  on  which  basis,  how  long  the  certifications  are  valid  under  which 
framework and conditions”, as stated in section 8 of the Annex. Therefore, the Board  recommends 
the CZ SA to amend the draft requirements by including the abovementioned reference. 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

38. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Czech Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

39.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the CZ SA: 

1)  include the obligation to provide access to the SA to “contractually confidential matters” 

in section 3.2.1.2.1.2. 

2)  replace  “information  about  granting  certification”  with  “information  necessary  for 

granting certification” in subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.8. 

3)  clarify subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.9 in line with Article 42(8) GDPR. 

4)  in subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.12, add a reference to [where applicable] “the consequences for 

the customer should also be addressed”. 

5)  amend subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.13 to include “all changes in its actual or legal situation and 

in its products, processed and services concerned by the certification”. 

6)  delete section 3.2.1.2.1.3 and subsection 3.2.1.2.1.2.14. 

Adopted 

10 

7)  include the missing requirements regarding the management of impartiality foreseen in 

the Annex. 

40.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the CZ SA: 

1)  amend section 3.2.1.2.9.1 to specify when “it constitutes certification activities” or clarify 
that  the  certification  body  will  retain  the  responsibility  for  the  decision-making,  even 
when it uses external experts. 

41.  Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the CZ SA: 

1)  include, in section 3.2.1.2.10.4, the obligation of the certification body to set out in detail 
in its certification mechanism how the information required in item 7.4.6 ISO 17065 shall 
be provided to the applicant about non conformities from a certification mechanism. 

2)  amend section 3.2.1.2.10.5 to make reference to the obligation to set out procedures for 

the granting and revocation of certifications. 

3)  amend section 3.1.2.10.7.2 to reflect that in the case of certification under the GDPR, the 

monitoring activities are always mandatory. 

4)  amend section 3.2.1.2.10.8 to reflect the obligation of the certification body to proactively 

inform the SA of the reasons for granting or revoking the certification. 

5)  include the obligation of the certification body to accept decisions and orders from the 
competent SA to withdraw or not to issue certification to an applicant if the requirements 
for certification are no longer met. 

42.  Regarding ‘management system’, the Board recommends that the CZ SA: 

1)  include  the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  “make  public  permanently  and 
continuously  which  certifications  were  carried  out  on  which  basis,  how  long  the 
certifications are valid under which framework and conditions”, as stated in section 8 of 
the Annex. 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

43. 

This  opinion  is  addressed  to  the  Czech  Supervisory  Authority  and  will  be  made  public  pursuant  to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

44.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the CZ SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the  same  period,  it  shall  provide  the  amended  draft  list  or  where  it  does  not  intend  to  follow  the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

45. 

The CZ SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

Adopted 

11 

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

12 

