

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities of the Police of the Czech Republic - processing of personal data in the Schengen Information System



On the basis of the Office's inspection plan, the Office carried out an inspection of the Czech national part of the Schengen Information System (hereinafter referred to as "SIS"). The administrator of the personal data of this part of the SIS is the Police of the Czech Republic, which was the controlled person. The General Directorate of Customs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and municipal authorities of municipalities with extended powers are in the position of processor. As part of the inspection, the Office also checked two initiatives, the content of which was related to the subject of the inspection.

The scope of personal data processed in the SIS is set out in Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No. 1987/2006 of 20 December 2006 on the establishment, operation and use of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) and in Article 20 of the Council Decision 2007/533/SV of 12 June on the establishment, operation and use of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II). From these legal regulations, the controlled person also has legal obligations in the field of establishment and operation of the national part of the SIS.

The Office controlled the method of entering personal data into the SIS, including their updating and deletion, as well as searching for personal data in the SIS. The activity of the national SIRENE headquarters and ensuring the operation of the SIS were also subject of the inspection.

At the same time, the Office checked the implementation of data subjects' rights to access personal data, to correct inaccurate or delete illegally stored personal data. The inspectors also focused on the measures taken to ensure the security of personal data processed in this part of the SIS, including internal regulations, employee training, securing and recording access and physical security.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector JUDr. Jiřina Rippelová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Police of the Czech Republic - processing of personal data in the Schengen Information SystemView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



