1/23

 File No.: EXP202205820

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 05/18/2022 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The motives
on which the claim is based are the following:

The claimant states that he has been working since 2019 for a company of the
that the claimed party is responsible and that in the place where it provides its services
a video surveillance camera associated with an alarm is installed, which is
uses as a means of labor control of his job, capturing images and
audio, without having been previously informed of the processing of your data linked to
said camera.

He states that he has learned of the audio capture by said video surveillance system
on 03/24/2022, on the occasion of a WhatsApp conversation held with the
requested party, in which the latter states that it is listening through the
camera.

It also states that the work computers have installed a
application for remote computer access by the claimed party (“In
company computers, whose work is in a shared folder
so that we can access both, it has an application installed (...) to be able to
remotely access and take control of the computer that I use, when for said
end could connect to yours.”).

Provides images of the location of the camera, of the remote control program
installed on the company computer (this is an image of the screen of a
computer showing a remote access application message
indicated by the complaining party with the text “iPhone of… -name of the party
claimed- (***PHONE.2) is connected to your computer”) and screenshots
of a mobile device in which you can see the WhatsApp messages sent
by “***GROUP.1”. These messages indicate:

. “***GROUP.1”: “What do you have in the background? Why is there no music?
. You: "And this?"
. "***GROUP.1": "Because I entered the camera and the news was being heard"

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/23

The information that the complaining party provides about the complained party includes,
In addition to the name and ID number, the following data:

. Web page: “***URL.1”.
. Email: “***EMAIL.1”.
. Mailing address: “***ADDRESS.1”.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party,
by writing addressed to "***GROUP.1", to the address "***ADDRESS.1", so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was delivered by the Postal Service on date
05/31/2022, at the indicated address, and it is recorded received by C.C.C., with DNI ***NIF.2,
according to the indications outlined in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

In this procedure, the requested party was required to provide information on the
video surveillance installed in the referred premises, detailing specifically if the
The purpose of this system is labor control, and on the audio training by the
same, plus image; as well as information about the installation in the
computers of the company of an application to access remotely and if this
access is made for the purpose of labor control.

The period of one month granted for the claimed party to respond to the
The claim elapsed without any writing being received by this Agency.

THIRD: On 07/19/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 11/04/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged violation of the
Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation for the Protection of
Data, hereinafter GDPR), typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation; and
classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in article 72.1.b) of the
LOPDGDD.

In the opening agreement it was determined that the sanction that could correspond,
attention to the existing evidence at the time of opening and without prejudice to the
that results from the instruction, would amount to a total of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

Likewise, it was warned that the accused infringement, if confirmed, may lead to the
imposition of measures, according to article 58.2 d) of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/23

the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a brief of allegations in which it requests that
the nullity of the procedure is agreed or, secondarily, that the
actions to the information request process.

As grounds for its petition, the respondent denies that it was given
reliable transfer of the claim that gives rise to the procedure, procedure to be
makes reference in the Second Antecedent, indicating that he has had knowledge of
said claim with the notification of the beginning of the disciplinary procedure.
It understands that this circumstance infringes what is established in the LPACAP, in relation to
the essential procedures that must be substantiated in a procedure with the purpose of
to prevent the interested party from suffering defenselessness; and the requirement to notify the act as
necessary requirement for its effectiveness.

In this regard, it points out that notifications presenting deficiencies must
considered unsuccessful, cause defenselessness and lead to the nullity or voidability of the
act that they contain for violation of fundamental rights and for having
dispensed with the entire procedure.

For this reason, the claimed party requested a complete copy of the file; what do you know
sent the request for information that "allegedly" was notified, of which
the file brings cause; and a copy of the proof of sending and receiving said
notification.

In this statement of allegations, the claimed party indicates as address for the purposes of
notifications the postal address located in "***ADDRESS.1". between the data
personal information provided, in addition to the postal address, the line number is indicated
phone number “***PHONE.1” and the email address “***EMAIL.1”.

SIXTH: By writing dated 12/15/2022, which was notified on 12/19/2022, it is
sent to the claimed party a copy of the actions included in this
procedure, which includes the letter of transfer of the claim addressed to
"***GROUP.1" that is mentioned in the Second Antecedent and the proof of its
delivery.

On the occasion of the remission of the copy of the proceedings, the party was granted
demanded a new period of ten business days so that he could present
allegations at the opening of the procedure, provide as many documents as you deem
timely and formulate test proposal.

In addition, it was warned about the provisions of article 53 "Rights of the interested party in the
administrative procedure" of the LPACAP, which recognizes those interested in the
procedure the right to know, at any time, the status of the processing
and to formulate allegations, use the means of defense admitted by the Law
Legal, and to provide documents at any stage of the procedure prior to the
hearing process, which must be taken into account when drafting the proposal
resolution.

Making use of this new term granted to formulate allegations, dated
12/26/2022 a letter is received from the claimed party requesting that the
resolution agreeing the nullity of the disciplinary procedure or, secondarily, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/23

retroaction of the procedure at the time of the information request.

It reiterates its previous allegations, pointing out that the documentation provided proves
that the request for information in question was addressed to "***GRUPO.1" and not to "B.B.B.".
The claimed party understands that this notification cannot be deemed valid,
given that "***GROUP.1" lacks legal capacity and cannot be interested in the
procedure.

SEVENTH: On 01/05/2023, it was agreed to open the testing period with the practice
of the following:

1. The claim filed by the
complaining party and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated during
the phase of admission to processing of the claim.

2. Likewise, the allegations to the agreement to start the
referenced disciplinary procedure formulated by the claimed party.

3. It was agreed to incorporate the following information and/or documentation into the actions:

a) Result of the search carried out on the Internet with the Google search engine and the criteria
search “B.B.B.”.

The first page of search results includes links, among others, to the
websites “linkedin.com”, “pinterest.es”, “infojobs.net”, “expansión.com” and
“eleconomista.es”.

In the information associated with the link to "linkedin.com" that appears on this page of
results is indicated “(…)”.

It is also verified that the claimed party appears as an individual entrepreneur or
autonomous in the directories of the websites “expansión.com” and “eleconomista.es”.

b) Information (public profile) available on “B.B.B.” on the website “linkedin.com”.

In the "Experience" section it is indicated: "(...)".

c) Information (public profile) available on “B.B.B.” on the website “infojobs.net”.

In this profile (“updated 2018”), the claimed party is presented as “(…)”.

d) Result of the search carried out on the internet with the Google search engine and the criteria
search “***GROUP.1”.

The first page of search results includes links to the website
"***URL.1" and the profiles of "***GRUPO.1" on the social networks "Facebook" and
"Instagram". In the data that is related to "***GROUP.1" appears the address
located in “***ADDRESS.1” and the telephone line number “***PHONE.2”.

e) Information available on the website "***URL.1", section "Contact".

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/23

As contact details of "***URL.1" a postal address is mentioned
("***ADDRESS 1"),
and
“***PHONE.2”) and an email address (“***EMAIL.1”).

("***TELEPHONE 1"

lines of

telephony

  two

f) Information available on “***GROUP.1” on the website “linkedin.com”.

It presents itself as a “(…)” company, and includes information about its website
(“***URL.1”), headquarters (“***PROVINCE.1”), type (“Own company”), main location
(“***ADDRESS.1”) and employees (“B.B.B., (…) in ***GROUP.1”). includes messages
inserted by the person quoted with the text "personal search".

EIGHTH: On 02/06/2023, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense
following:

1. That the claimed party be penalized for a breach of article 6 of the GDPR,
typified in Article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, and classified as very serious for the purposes of
prescription in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine of 5,000 euros
(five thousand euros).

2. That the claimed party be required so that, within the term to be determined,
adopt the necessary measures to adapt its actions to the regulations of
protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Basis of
Law VIII of the proposed resolution.

NINTH: The proposed resolution outlined in the Eighth Antecedent was
notified to the claimed party on 02/07/2023, granting him a term to
make allegations.

On 02/16/2023, a written statement of allegations to the resolution proposal was received
in which the claimed party once again requests that the nullity of the
actions or, in a subsidiary way, the retroaction of actions to the phase is agreed
of admission to processing of the claim, at the time of the transfer of the claim to the
person responsible, or the procedure is archived. In this writing it is put
reveal the following:

1. In relation to the nullity of the proceedings, he almost literally reiterates his
previous allegations in this regard and adds that the motion for a resolution recognizes
that the process for transferring the claim was addressed to "***GRUPO.1" and not to
"B.B.B."

2. The principle of classification is violated, since it is false that the system of
video surveillance collects and stores personal data relating to the voice of employees and
third parties, concluded in the motion for a resolution based on a WhatsApp message
provided by the complaining party, based on which it understands that the principle of
presumption of innocence.

And adds:

"Having said this, it is flatly false that I have any video surveillance system in my premises that
can collect and store data related to the voice of employees and third parties, since in
In relation to listening to audio, the only thing I have contracted are alarms or security systems.
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/23

alerts that incorporate microphones that allow audio to be heard, but not recorded or logged
these audios, all for the purpose of being able to verify any incident...
For all these reasons, if my video surveillance system is the only thing you have contracted in relation to the
audio listening are alarms or alert systems that incorporate microphones that allow
listen to audio, but not record or record these audios, you would not be committing the offense
that is charged to me."

As a document accrediting his statements, he says to provide the signed contract
with a security company. However, it is an unsigned document and in
which does not even contain the data of the party claimed as a client of the company
that is quoted

3. Considering that the facts are not true, the proposed sanction is contrary to the
principle of proportionality, as it is not related to the objective circumstances and
concurrent subjective, nor does it pay attention to the seriousness and transcendence of the fact, the
background of the offender and his status as a repeat offender, or the intent and
damages caused.

4. The principles of presumption of innocence and "indubio pro reo" are violated when
base the sanction on the screenshots provided by the complaining party,
relating to a conversation allegedly held with the claimed party, which
that denies Thus, it considers that it is appropriate to apply the provisions of article 89.1.b) of the
LPACAP, which orders the filing of proceedings when the facts are not
accredited

According to the defendant, in this proceeding they have not been incorporated into the
file the appropriate evidence for the correct and complete
determination of the facts and of the persons responsible for them,
limited to making a generic statement of guilt in relation to some
acts that have not been committed by the accused in the form and extent that
they presume, without adequate evidence, made by the taxpayer of the file. AND
warns that the burden of proof corresponds to the acting Administration.

He ends by pointing out that in the event that in the evaluation of the evidence
the slightest shadow of reasonable doubt existed as to the guilt imputed by
divergence between them, as in the present case, would be fully applicable
the general principle "in dubio pro reo", which -as a rule of interpretation of
procedural nature - determines that in case of doubt the file is resolved
sanctioning in the most favorable sense for the presumed offender.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1. The claimed party carries out its economic activity as an individual entrepreneur,
under the trademark "***GRUPO.1", with professional domicile at
"***ADDRESS 1".
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/23

2. The business premises located at "***ADDRESS.1" have a system of
video surveillance, for which the claimed party is responsible.

3. The claimant has stated that he provides services as an employee of the
claimed party in the place located at the postal address indicated in the Facts
Tested First and Second.

4. The complaining party stated that the video surveillance system described in the
Fact Tested Second has sound pickup, in addition to voice pickup
image.

In this regard, the complainant contributed to the proceedings with screenshots of
a mobile device in which you can see WhatsApp messages that were sent to you
sent by the claimed party (“***GROUP.1”). These messages indicate:

. “***GROUP.1”: “What do you have in the background? Why is there no music?
. You: "And this?"
. "***GROUP.1": "Because I entered the camera and the news was being heard"

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures”.

II

formal issues

In advance, it is deemed appropriate to analyze the formal issues raised
by the party claimed in their pleadings, both at the opening of the
procedure and in relation to the motion for a resolution.

It considers that the procedure is null and void since it was not notified
evidence of the claim in which it originates, of which he became aware with the
notification of the initiation agreement, violating what is established in the LPACAP, in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/23

relation to the essential procedures that must be substantiated in a procedure for
prevent the interested party from suffering defenselessness; and the requirement to notify the act as
necessary requirement for its effectiveness.
 
The claimed party refers, specifically, to the procedure for forwarding the claim that
It is reported in the Second Antecedent, which was not addressed to "B.B.B.", but to
"***GROUP.1", which lacks legal capacity and cannot be interested in the
procedure.

In this regard, this Agency understands that the claimed party has been respected
all the guarantees of the interested party that the procedural regulations provide and it cannot be said
that the incidence indicated in relation to the process of transferring the claim
supposes no reduction of said guarantees causing defenselessness.

The indicated notification of transfer of the claim to the person in charge to whom
refers to the party claimed in its allegations has to do with the process of
admission to processing of the claims received, prior to the agreement of admission of
such claims.

In accordance with the provisions of article 55 of the GDPR, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to perform the functions assigned to it
in its article 57, among them, that of enforcing the Regulation and promoting the
sensitization of controllers and processors about the
obligations incumbent upon them, as well as dealing with claims filed by a
interested and investigate the reason for them.

Correlatively, article 31 of the GDPR establishes the obligation of those responsible
and those in charge of the treatment to cooperate with the control authority that requests it in
the performance of their functions. In the event that they have designated a
data protection delegate, article 39 of the GDPR attributes to him the function of
cooperate with said authority.

In the same way, the internal legal system, in article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD,
has provided for a mechanism prior to the admission for processing of the claims that are
formulated before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, which consists of giving
transfer of the same to the data protection delegates designated by the
responsible or in charge of the treatment, for the purposes provided in article 37 of
the aforementioned norm, or to them when they have not designated them, so that they proceed to the
analysis of said claims and to respond to them within a month. In this
Article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, which regulates the "Admission for processing of
claims”, establishes the following:

"4. Before deciding on the admission for processing of the claim, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection may send it to the data protection delegate that there is, in
appropriate, designated the person in charge or in charge of the treatment or the supervisory body
established for the application of the codes of conduct for the purposes set forth in the
articles 37 and 38.2 of this organic law.

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection may also send the claim to the
responsible or in charge of the treatment when a delegate of
data protection nor adhered to extrajudicial dispute resolution mechanisms.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/23

conflicts, in which case the person responsible or in charge must respond to the claim in
within one month."

According to this regulation, prior to the admission for processing of the claim
that gives rise to this procedure, it was transferred to the person in charge (the
claimed party) to proceed with its analysis, respond to this Agency in
within one month and certify having provided the complaining party with the response
due.

The result of said transfer was not satisfactory, therefore, for the purposes foreseen
in its article 64.2 of the LOPDGDD, it was agreed to admit the claim for processing
presented by means of an agreement that was duly notified to the complaining party,
and not to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.5 of the
LOPDGDD.

This procedure prior to the admission of the claim, according to article 65.4 of the
LOPDGDD previously transcribed, it is an optional procedure, so that
formalized only if this Agency deems it so, without any
legal consequence of the fact that this procedure is not carried out or in case of
that, once attempted, could not have been carried out effectively; nor does it prevent
the claim can be admitted for processing and given the appropriate course. neither are you
circumstances have any bearing on the validity of the possible proceeding
disciplinary action that could be initiated later.

In this case, in addition, the notification of the transfer process, as detailed in the
antecedents of this act, it occurred in a valid and reliable manner at the address in
the one in which the claimed party carries out its activity, the same indicated by said party
as address for notification purposes. The document in question was delivered in that
address by the Postal Service on 05/31/2022.

It is true, as has been pointed out, that the notification was addressed to "***GROUP.1" and not to
"B.B.B." However, in the proceedings it has been proven that the party
claimed operates under the trademark "***GRUPO.1". The claimed party itself
is presented in their public profiles accessible on the websites "linkedin.com" and
"infojobs.net" as "(...) ***GROUP.1" since September 2016.

Also, in his pleadings brief at the opening of the proceeding, he points out the party
claimed as contact information, in addition to the postal address to which the
transfer process, the email address "***EMAIL.1". Both
addresses, postal and electronic, also appear as contact information on the site
website “***URL.1”.

Despite this, the period of one month granted to the claimed party to inform
on the issues raised by the claim and addressing it took place without
that this Agency received any response.

The defendant, in its allegations to the proposed resolution, reproduces its
previous allegations on the nullity of actions for the sending of the notification
of the transfer of the claim to "***GROUP.1", without considering the arguments
above, about which it does not mention.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/23

The image and voice are personal data

II

The physical image and voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, are a
Personal data and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In the article
4.2 of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.

The images and voice captured by a system of cameras or video cameras are data
of a personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the regulations of
Data Protection.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image and voice
of the complaining party, who serves as an employee in the company of the party
claimed, and of the natural persons who come as clients to the establishment of
said company, open to the public) carried out through the system of
denounced video surveillance is in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

IV.

Infringement

The complaining party bases its claim on two grounds. First of all,
questions that the complained party can access the computer he uses at work,
using an application that allows remote access to the device. Without
However, it is a company computer accessed by the party claimed in
his status as head of the organization. Furthermore, the complaining party
It only refers to access to a shared folder in which they are hosted
company jobs. Thus, from what was provided and stated by the claimant
no indications of infringement are deduced.

The second reason for the claim has to do with the audio capture by the
video surveillance system installed in the workplace of the complaining party and the
legality of the processing of personal data that it entails.

Article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow the use of
processing of personal data:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data for one or
various specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is a party
or for the application at his request of pre-contractual measures;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;
d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another person
physical;
e) the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a task carried out in the public interest
or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the user.
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/23

responsible for the treatment or by a third party, provided that such interests are not
the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject prevail
require the protection of personal data, in particular when the data subject is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment carried out by
public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

The permanent implantation of a system of video cameras for reasons of
security has a legitimate basis in the LOPDGDD, the explanatory statement of which indicates:

“Together with these assumptions, others are included, such as video surveillance… in which the legality of the
treatment comes from the existence of a public interest, in the terms established in the
Article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
 
Regarding treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

On the legitimacy for the implementation of video surveillance systems in the field
labor, this same article 22, in its section 8, provides that "The treatment by the
Employer data obtained through camera or video camera systems will be
submits to the provisions of article 89 of this organic law”.

Royal Legislative Decree 1/1995, of 03/24, is taken into account, which approves the text
Consolidated Law of the Workers' Statute (LET), whose article 20.3 states:

"3. The employer may adopt the measures he deems most appropriate for surveillance and control
to verify compliance by the worker with his labor obligations and duties,
keeping in their adoption and application due consideration to their dignity and taking into account
account, where appropriate, the real capacity of workers with disabilities.

The permitted surveillance and control measures include the installation of
security cameras, although these systems should always respond at first
of proportionality, that is, the use of video cameras must be proportional to the purpose
pursued, this is to guarantee the security and the fulfillment of the obligations and
job duties.

Article 89 of the LOPDPGDD, referring specifically to the "right to privacy
against the use of video surveillance and sound recording devices in the place
work" and the processing of personal data obtained with camera systems or
video cameras for the exercise of control functions of the workers, allows
that employers can process the images obtained through security systems
cameras or camcorders for the exercise of the functions of control of the
workers or public employees provided for, respectively, in article 20.3
of the Workers' Statute and in the civil service legislation, provided that
These functions are exercised within its legal framework and with the limits inherent to the
same.

In relation to sound recording, the aforementioned article 89 of the LOPDGDD
sets the following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/23

"2. In no case will the installation of sound recording systems or
video surveillance in places intended for the rest or recreation of workers or
public employees, such as locker rooms, toilets, dining rooms and the like.
3. The use of systems similar to those referred to in the previous sections for the
sound recording in the workplace will be allowed only when relevant
risks to the safety of facilities, goods and people derived from the activity
that it takes place in the workplace and always respecting the principle of proportionality,
the minimum intervention and the guarantees provided for in the previous sections. the deletion
of the sounds preserved by these recording systems will be made according to the
provided in section 3 of article 22 of this law”.

On the other hand, it is interesting to note that, according to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the
recording conversations between workers or between them and customers is not justified
for the verification of compliance by the worker with his obligations or duties.
In a Judgment dated 04/10/2000 (2000/98), issued in rec. num. 4015/1996, it
declares the following:

In this sense, it must be taken into account that the managerial power of the employer,
essential for the smooth running of the productive organization and expressly recognized
in the art. 20 LET, attributes to the employer, among other powers, that of adopting the measures that
deems more appropriate surveillance and control to verify the worker's compliance with
their labor obligations (art. 20.3 LET). But this faculty must be produced in any case,
As is logical, within due respect for the dignity of the worker, as we expressly
It is reminded by the labor regulations (arts. 4.2.e and 20.3 LET)...

... it should be remembered that the jurisprudence of this Court has repeatedly insisted on the
full effectiveness of the fundamental rights of the worker in the framework of the relationship
labor, since this cannot imply in any way the deprivation of such rights for
those who serve in productive organizations... Consequently, and as
This Court has also affirmed, the exercise of such rights only admits
limitations or sacrifices to the extent that it develops within an organization
which reflects other constitutionally recognized rights in arts. 38 and 33 CE and that
It imposes, according to the assumptions, the necessary adaptability for the exercise of all of them...

For this reason, the premise from which the Judgment under appeal starts, consisting of
affirm that the workplace is not by definition a space in which the
workers' right to privacy, in such a way that the conversations that
maintain workers with each other and with customers in the performance of their work activity
They are not covered by art. 18.1 EC and there is no reason why the company cannot
know the content of those, since the aforementioned right is exercised in the field of
private sphere of the worker, that in the workplace it must be understood limited to the
places of rest or recreation, changing rooms, toilets or the like, but not to those
places where work is carried out...

…Such a statement is rejectable, since it cannot be ruled out that also in those
places of the company where the work activity is carried out may produce
illegitimate interference by the employer in the right to privacy of the
workers, such as the recording of conversations between a worker and a
client, or between the workers themselves, in which issues unrelated to the relationship are addressed
that are integrated into what we have called the sphere of development of the
individual (SSTC 231/1988, of December 2, FJ 4 and 197/1991, of October 17, FJ 3, by
all). In short, it will be necessary to attend not only to the place in the workplace where they are installed
by the company audiovisual control systems, but also to other elements of judgment (if
the installation is done or not indiscriminately and massively, if the systems are visible or have
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/23

been surreptitiously installed, the real purpose pursued with the installation of such
systems, if there are security reasons, by the type of activity that takes place in the
workplace in question, which justifies the implementation of such means of control, etc.)
to elucidate in each specific case whether these means of surveillance and control respect the right
to the privacy of workers. Certainly, the installation of such means in places of
rest or recreation, changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and the like is, a fortiori, harmful
in any case, the right to privacy of workers, without further consideration, for
obvious reasons... But this does not mean that this injury cannot occur in those places
where the work activity is carried out, if any of the circumstances set out that
allows classifying business action as an illegitimate intrusion into the right to privacy
from the workers. It will be necessary, then, to attend to the concurrent circumstances in the supposed
concrete to determine whether or not there is a violation of art. 18.1 EC.

…its limitation [of the fundamental rights of the worker] by the powers
business can only derive well from the fact that the very nature of work
contracted involves the restriction of the right (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, and 106/1996, FJ 4), either
an accredited business need or interest, without its mere invocation being sufficient to
sacrifice the fundamental right of the worker (SSTC 99/1994, FJ 7, 6/1995, FJ 3 and 136/1996,
FJ 7)…

These limitations or modulations must be the indispensable and strictly
necessary to satisfy a business interest deserving of guardianship and protection, in a manner
that if there are other possibilities of satisfying said interest that are less aggressive and affect the
right in question, it will be necessary to use the latter and not those more aggressive and
affective. It is, ultimately, the application of the principle of proportionality...

The question to be resolved is, therefore, whether the installation of microphones that allow the recording of
conversations of workers and customers in certain areas... fits in the assumption
that occupies us with the essential requirements of respect for the right to privacy. To the
In this regard, we must begin by pointing out that it is indisputable that the installation of devices
for capturing and recording sound in two specific areas... it is not without utility for the
business organization, especially if one takes into account that these are two areas in which
economic transactions of some importance take place. Now, the mere utility
or convenience for the company does not simply legitimize the installation of hearing aids and
recording, given that the company already had other security systems than the
Hearing system is intended to complement…

In short, the implementation of the listening and recording system has not been in this case
in accordance with the principles of proportionality and minimum intervention that govern modulation
of fundamental rights due to the requirements of the interest of the organization
business, since the purpose pursued (to provide extra security, especially in the face of
eventual customer claims) is disproportionate to the sacrifice that
implies the right to privacy of workers (and even customers...). This system
allows you to capture private comments, both from customers and workers...,
comments completely unrelated to business interest and therefore irrelevant from the
perspective of control of labor obligations, being able, however, to have
negative consequences for workers who, in any case, will feel constrained
to make any type of personal comment given the conviction that they are going to be
heard and recorded by the company. It is, in short, an illegitimate interference in the
right to privacy enshrined in art. 18.1 CE, since there is no definitive argument that
authorize the company to listen and record the private conversations that the workers…
keep with each other or with customers.”

In any case, employers must inform in advance, and in a
express, clear and concise, to workers or public employees and, where appropriate, to
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/23

their representatives, about this measure (article 89.1 of the LOPDGDD).

Video surveillance obligations

V

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
video surveillance, to comply with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other means, recital 39 of the GDPR.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a subsequent purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles
12 and 13 of the GDPR, and 22 of the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, article 22 of the LOPDGDD provides in relation to video surveillance
a “layered information” system.

The first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the treatment
(video surveillance), the identity of the person responsible, the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more information about the
processing of personal data.

This information will be contained in a device placed in a sufficiently
visible and must be provided in advance.

Second layer information should be easily available in one place
accessible to the affected person, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc…,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
other elements of article 13 of the GDPR.

4.- Images of the public thoroughfare cannot be captured, since the treatment of
images in public places, unless there is government authorization, only
It can be carried out by the Security Forces and Bodies.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
cameras installed on facades or inside, may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public thoroughfare.

That is, cameras and camcorders installed for security purposes may not be

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/23

obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for said purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in such a case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surroundings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those that access the space
guarded.

Images cannot be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties without the
consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them
find.

It is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
changing rooms, lockers or rest areas for workers.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, property or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent authority within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.

6.- The controller must keep a record of processing activities
carried out under his responsibility in which the information to which he makes
reference article 30.1 of the GDPR.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt security measures.
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood to be the destruction, loss or accidental alteration or
unlawful transfer of personal data, stored or otherwise processed, or the
communication or unauthorized access to said data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/23

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a qualified private security company
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:

. the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the GDPR
and the LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"),
. the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
. the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available at the
section "Guides and tools").

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

Administrative offense. Classification and qualification of the infraction.

SAW

The claim is based on the alleged illegality of the installed video surveillance system
by the claimed party in the premises where it carries out its business activity, in
relation to sound capture.

The claimed party is the owner and responsible for the video surveillance system
denounced and, therefore, the person responsible for the data processing involved in the
use of said system. The data processing carried out includes
the collection of personal data related to the voice of employees and third parties that
can access the premises, which appears to be an establishment open to the public,
in view of the image provided by the claimant.

In relation to said system, the complaining party has stated that the system is
was installed when he began to serve as an employee of the part
claimed, in 2019, "supposedly as a security measure for the premises"; and?
has never been informed about the capture of sound or its use for purposes
of labor control, which constitutes, in the opinion of the complaining party, a use
"for a purpose other than that which is stated to have been installed."

Therefore, the legality of the video surveillance system installed by the party is questioned.
claimed in the premises where it carries out its business activity, in relation to the
sound capture, which has been duly accredited by the complaining party with
the contribution of a WhatsApp conversation in which the claimed party makes
reference to their access to the video surveillance system and the sound captured by it.

The claimed party has not provided any justification in relation to the issues

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/23

raised by the complaining party, despite the fact that it was expressly required with
occasion of the process of transfer of the claim, which was not answered by that one.

It has limited itself to denying having received that request for information, according to
been exposed in the Fundamentals of Law II.

It has indicated that if it had received that communication it would have provided the
required information. However, he has had occasion, twice, to formulate
allegations at the opening of this disciplinary proceeding, and also in
response to the motion for a resolution, and has not provided information and/or
any documentation relating to the system installed in the establishment in question.

It is interesting to note in this regard that the defendant was asked to prove that they had
informed the workers that the video surveillance system is used for control
and to provide a technical report on said system.

In arranging for sound pickup, the defendant disregards the limits
provided for in article 20.3 of the Workers' Statute Law (LET); it
established in article 89.3 of the LOPDGDD, which admits the collection and recording of
sounds only when the risks are relevant and respecting the principles
proportionality and minimal intervention; nor the doctrine of the Constitutional Court,
already expressed, according to which the "implementation of listening and recording systems" does not
is legitimized, without further ado, by the "mere utility or convenience of the company", which the
"gathering private comments, both from customers and workers" is
outside the business interest and is not justified by the verification of compliance by the
worker from his obligations or duties.

Consequently, it is understood disproportionate the capture of the voice of both the
workers and clients of the claimed party for the video surveillance function
intended. It is taken into account that the capture of voice supposes a greater intrusion
in privacy.

The defendant, in its allegations to the proposed resolution, has stated
that it is false that the video surveillance system collects and stores personal data
related to the voice of employees and customers, and considers that the screenshot
provided by the claimed party does not prove the facts, thus invoking the
principles of presumption of innocence and “indubio pro reo”.

However, this Agency considers that the capture of sounds by the indicated
security system is accredited by the content of the message sent by the
claimed party to the claiming party through Whatsapp, which is outlined in
the Fourth Proven Fact. In this message, the claimed party declares to have
entered “into the camera” and accessed the sound captured by it (“they heard
news").

Moreover, in the same allegations it expressly acknowledges that the system "that has
contracted" incorporates microphones "that allow listening to audios".

By not recording or recording audios, the claimed party considers that he is not committing
the infraction that is imputed, without considering that the mere capture of audios, even without

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/23

to proceed with its recording and conservation, constitutes data processing
personal information that requires a legitimate basis to be able to carry it out,
in accordance with the provisions of article 6 of the GDPR.

Article 4 of the same GDPR defines "processing" in the following terms:

"2) "processing": any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or
destruction".

Therefore, it is considered that the claimed party performs data processing without
have a legitimate basis, violating the provisions of article 6 of the GDPR, which
supposes the commission of an infraction typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which
provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with section
2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for consent to
tenor of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the legal conditions of the
treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

VII

Sanction

Article 58.2 of the GDPR establishes:

"Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:
(...)
d) order the person in charge or person in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;
(...)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this paragraph, according to the circumstances of each
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/23

particular case".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in article
58.2.d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

Regarding the infringement of article 6 of the GDPR, based on the facts
exposed, it is considered that the sanction that would correspond to be imposed is a fine
administrative.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR. Thus
considers, in advance, the microenterprise status of the claimed party,
who develops economic activity as a natural person under the condition of
autonomous entrepreneur.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, which states the following:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case.
individually, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount
in each individual case due account shall be taken of:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number of
affected stakeholders and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to alleviate the
damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account
of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular if the
Controller or processor notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the same
matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or certification mechanisms
approved under article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
the offence”.

For its part, article 76 "Sanctions and corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD,
Regarding section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 GDPR, it provides:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of said article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 also

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/23

may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) Linking the offender's activity with data processing
personal.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of the
infringement.
e) The existence of a merger process by absorption subsequent to the commission of the infraction,
that cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which there are
disputes between those and any interested party”.

In this case, the graduation criteria are considered concurrent as aggravating factors.
following:

. Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR: "a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the
infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the operation
treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the
level of damages they have suffered”.

. The nature and seriousness of the infringement, taking into account that the party
claimant and the rest of those affected (third parties who access the establishment
of the claimed party) are unaware of the data processing that is being
being carried out (sound capture by the video surveillance system) and the
use that will be made of personal data, which affects the ability to
data subjects to exercise real control over their personal data.

. Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR: "b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement".

The negligence appreciated in the installation of video surveillance cameras that
allow the collection of audio in a work environment, without even informing
employees and others affected, and even though these systems have a
special and express regulation that imposes special care on those responsible
in its use.

. Article 83.2.d) of the GDPR: "d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or the
processor, taking into account technical or organizational measures
that they have applied by virtue of articles 25 and 32”.

The claimed party does not have adequate action procedures in place
in the collection and processing of personal data, as regards
to the collection and processing of personal data related to the voice of the person
employee in your company, so that the infringement is not the result of a
anomaly in the operation of said procedures but rather a defect in the
personal data management system designed by the controller.

. Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR: "the categories of personal data
affected by the infringement”;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/23

Although "Special categories of personal data" have not been affected,
as defined by the GDPR in article 9, the personal data to which they refer
actions (voice of stakeholders) has a particularly
sensitive and increases the risks to your privacy.

Considering the exposed factors, the valuation reached by the fine for the
violation of article 6 of the GDPR is 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

In view of what is stated in this Legal Basis, it is not true what
indicated by the party claimed in its allegations, according to which the sanction
imposed is not related to the objective and subjective circumstances
concurrent, nor does it attend to the seriousness and transcendence of the fact.

It also refers to the absence of antecedents of the offender and the absence of
damages, but without providing any reasoning that justifies the consideration of
these grading factors.

None of the grading factors considered is mitigated by the fact that
that the claimed entity has not been subject to a disciplinary procedure with
above, this circumstance is alleged by the claimed party to be
considered as a mitigation.

In this regard, the Judgment of the AN, of 05/05/2021, rec. 1437/2020, indicates:

"It considers, on the other hand, that the non-commission of a
previous violation. Well, article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that it must be taken into account
for the imposition of the administrative fine, among others, the circumstance "e) any infraction
committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment". It is a
aggravating circumstance, the fact that the budget for its application does not exist
entails that it cannot be taken into consideration, but it does not imply or allow, as it claims
the plaintiff, its application as mitigation”.

According to the aforementioned article 83.2 of the GDPR, when deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount must take into account "any previous infraction committed
by the person responsible." It is a normative provision that does not include the inexistence of
previous infractions as a factor for grading the fine, which must be
be understood as a criterion close to recidivism, although broader.

VIII

possible measures

It is appropriate to impose on the controller the obligation to adopt appropriate measures to
adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each authority of
control may “order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period…”.

The text of this resolution establishes which have been the infractions
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/23

allegedly committed and the facts that give rise to the violation of the regulations
of data protection, from which it is clearly inferred what are the measures to
adopt, without prejudice to the type of procedures, mechanisms or instruments
specific measures to implement them correspond to the sanctioned party, since it is the
controller who fully knows his organization and has to decide,
based on proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the
GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

However, in this case, regardless of the foregoing, this Agency estimates
proceeding to require the person in charge so that within the period determined in the part
device suppresses the capture of sounds by the video surveillance system object of
the performances.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article 6 of the
GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the same Regulation, and qualified as very
for the purposes of prescription in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of
5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

SECOND: REQUIRE B.B.B. so that, within a month, counted from the
notification of this resolution, adapt its action to the regulations of
protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Basis of
Law VIII, and justify before this Spanish Data Protection Agency the
attention to this requirement.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
XXXXXXXXXXXX), opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/23

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

