Information in NAIH / 2020/842 the content of its decision in this case
(Disclosure of the original content of the decision in its unaltered form - even the identification data
may be detrimental to the Applicant)
A former reality show starring the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority
(Authority) requested the initiation of an official data protection procedure, alleging that
one of the major Internet news portals is a one published in 2014 containing his personal information
does not remove the article from its site despite its request (the article states that the Applicant
featured the worst of the actors among themselves in a scheduled sympathy
The petitioner stated that the article had a negative impact on his life, specifically
adversely affects his professional career, which has led to his rejection of several job offers.
The Authority found that the article complained of on the RTL Klub television channel in 2014
an informative news release about one of the events of the 6th series of the Real World Reality Show, which
complies with the CIV of 2010 on freedom of the press and basic rules on media content.
(Smtv.) on press activities ensuring the fulfillment of information rights
standards. The photo displayed next to the press content is the Hungarian RTL operating the channel
The official press photo published by Televízió Zrt
and provided to all press products that it is related to the program
serve as a suitable pictorial illustration in news.
The Authority also found that the article contained the complainant's name, not just the RTL Club
contains the “nickname” (VV6 XY) used in his reality show, which, however, is direct
cannot be linked to the complainant's current professional career or labor market situation. THE
the relevant internet news portal does not return any search results on behalf of the complainant. With this
in contrast, Google’s search engine for various ways to enter the term VV6 XY
indicates tens of thousands of hits.
In his request to the Authority, the complainant requested that the article be removed. The affected
the enforceability of the right to delete personal data is subject to the exceptions to the general data protection
regulated by Article 17 (3) of the Regulation. Expression of opinion within the meaning of point (a)
freedom of access and the right of access to personal data
may be a legitimate means of refusing access, ie further retention of personal data
it is considered lawful if, inter alia, it is an expression of opinion and information
necessary for the exercise of the right to liberty. So the general data protection regulation
Article 17 (3) (a) is intended to strike a balance between the right of the data subject to cancel, a
between the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and the exercise of the right to information
- inter alia, freedom of the press and freedom of the internet.
In view of the above, the Authority also rejected the complainant's request in which the article
initiated the deletion of the personal data contained in
The Authority considers that it would undermine freedom of expression and access to information.
the right to
Finally, in the Authority's view, the publication of the nickname and photograph is the case for all
did not infringe the purpose of the general data protection regulation
provisions on data processing.
Budapest, March 30, 2020

