 

 

 

 
 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

02/10/2021

 Regional groups of Transparency International and

Mehr Demokratie e.V. draw up a draft for a transparency

border law for Baden-Württemberg

 

At the end of February, LfDI Brink presents an evaluation of the state information

Freedom of Information Act

 

The regional group of "Transparency International German

land e.V.", together with the state association of "More

Democracy e.V.” drafted a transparency law in

submitted to Baden-Württemberg. The draft was

worked out last year with students from Kehl University,

the State Commissioner for Freedom of Information Stefan Brink

accompanied this process on site.

 

The LfDI supports the idea of a transparency law for

Baden-Württemberg emphatically. Still in February Ste-

fan Brink a critical evaluation of the current state information

Information Freedom Act (LIFG) and for a clear

 

- 2 -

advancement occur. According to the LIFG, citizens have

the right of access to all official information in the

Country. This law has existed in Baden-Württemberg since 2016

and was originally scheduled to be approved by the state government in 2020

be evaluated. Now the LfDI has its own instead

evaluation created.

 
LfDI Stefan Brink: "We will carry out our evaluation in the coming

coming weeks. The State Freedom of Information

law was very important for the citizens because it has that

Official secrecy abolished in principle. It was the door opener

for the treasures of knowledge of our authorities. But the LIFG has

unfortunately also limitations and weaknesses. So we need one

comprehensive transparency law for our country – a good one

Draft for this now have “Transparency International

Germany" and "More Democracy". This will be the in

different parties already existing plans for a

Continue to fuel the Transparency Act in Baden-Württemberg. With

We can create more trust with a transparency law

– our authorities will no longer only provide their knowledge on request

share with everyone, but also of their own accord as many official

information as possible to its citizens on Internet

provide platforms. This will be a real win

for the citizens. That is why we are working hard for

a transparency law in Baden-Württemberg.”

 

Further information

 

The idea for the draft of the Transparency Act, which

"Transparency International Germany e.V." and "More De-

mokratie e.V.” was created in February 2019

with the support of the LfDI, which was held as part of the meeting of the

 

- 3 -

Regional group gave a lecture and the actors at the 1.

IFG-Days Baden Württemberg in June 2019 invited a

Workshop on the topic "The LIFG as the basis of democratic

tical decision-making and control”. the

The draft law in question was created independently by "Trans-

parency International Deutschland e.V.” and “More Democracy

tie e.V.”, which together with students from the university

Kehl spent over a year writing the draft.

 

