06.08.2021
Annual report to the ANSPDCP - 2020

The activity report for 2020 is publicly available on the website of the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing in the section “General information / Information of public interest / Annual reports”.
The annual report shall contain a summary of the Authority's work, being structured in accordance with the main competencies, in the following chapters: Chapter I - Overview, Chapter II - Regulatory activity, approval, consultation and public information, Chapter III - Monitoring and control , Chapter IV - Activities in the field of international relations and Chapter V - Economic management of the Authority.
This Report contains statistical benchmarks highlighted in each chapter, including graphs compared to previous years, such as the number of total or differentiated investigations (ex officio or on the basis of complaints), the number of complaints received, the number of corrective actions. applied (including fines), number of views issued, number of pending litigation, number of press releases, number of corporate / IMI rules.
The 2020 annual report also contains case files / cases related to the investigation activity, as well as the most relevant points of view issued, which reflect the complexity of the activity carried out, in relation to the attributions of our institution.
Thus, during 2020, a number of 1151 requests to the National Supervisory Authority for various views on the interpretation and application of Regulation (EU) 679/2016 by operators and their proxies were addressed to the National Supervisory Authority from public and private domain, by other entities as well as by individuals.
Also, our institution issued opinions on a number of 65 draft normative acts developed by public institutions and authorities that involved complex aspects regarding the processing of personal data, pursuant to art. 57 para. (1) lit. c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
During this period, 60 press releases were issued on the Authority's website.
Regarding the monitoring and control activity, in 2020 the Authority received a total of 5480 complaints, notifications and notifications regarding security incidents, on the basis of which 694 investigations were opened.
As a result of the investigations, 29 fines were applied in a total amount of 892,115.95 lei. At the same time, 64 more warnings were applied and 65 corrective measures were ordered.
In the context of cooperation with other supervisory authorities in the European Union to ensure mutual assistance, 56 requests concerning the application and compliance with Regulation (EU) 679/2016 were handled during 2020.
The activity report for 2020 was sent to the competent institutions, in accordance with the provisions of art. 5 para. (2) of Law no. 102/2005 on the establishment, organization and functioning of the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing.

Legal and Communication Directorate
A.N.S.P.D.C.P