 

Confidential/Registered
Foundation Support Provincial
Fraction Overijssel Party for Freedom
[CONFIDENTIAL]
Steenmeijerstraat 57
7555 NV HENGELO

   

 

Date
June 16, 2020
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 

 
Subject
Decision to impose an administrative fine
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authoritypersonal data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear [CONFIDENTIAL],
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (hereinafter: AP) has decided to support the Provincial Support Foundation
Overijssel Party for Freedom (PVV) (hereinafter: PVV Overijssel) an administrative fine of
€ 7,500 to be imposed. The AP is of the opinion that the PVV Overijssel in the period from January 14, 2019 to
has today failed to commit a personal data breach without undue delay and
no later than 72 hours after the PVV Overijssel became aware of the infringement on January 11, 2019, in
report to the AP. The PVV Overijssel thus has Article 33, first paragraph, of the General Regulation
Data protection (hereinafter: AVG) violated.
 
The decision is explained below. Chapter 1 contains the relevant facts and the course of the proceedings. In
Chapter 2 describes the legal framework. In chapter 3 follows the assessment of the AP, after which
in chapter 4 the amount of the administrative fine is motivated. Finally, chapter 5 contains it
operative part and the remedies clause.
 
1. Facts and procedure
 
Foundation Support Provincial Party Overijssel Party for Freedom (PVV) has its registered office
at Steenmeijerstraat 57, 7555 NV in Hengelo. The foundation has, among other things, the granting of
managerial and administrative assistance to the Group (as referred to in Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure of
order for the meeting and other activities of the Provincial Council of Overijssel or a

  

 

1



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
regulation that replaces it) has the purpose.1 The foundation also acts under the name
'PVV Overijssel'.2
 
On January 11, 2019, the AP received a complaint about a possible violation of the GDPR by the
PVV Overijssel.3 The complaint means, in short, that on 10 January 2019 the PVV Overijssel received an e-
e-mail message with “Invitation of the supporters evening January 28, 2018” as subject to a
group of 101 recipients. In doing so, all recipients of the e-mail message, including the complainant,
the list of recipients visible in the mailing list of the e-mail program.
 
In response to this complaint, the AP has launched an investigation to determine whether the rules contained in the
GDPR are set around reporting a personal data breach are complied with
by the PVV Overijssel.
 
In a letter dated 15 May 2019, the AP requested information from the PVV Overijssel.4 The PVV Overijssel has
responded in writing to this request on 24 May 2019.5
 
The findings of the investigation are set out in the report 'Investigation not reporting infringement in
connection with personal data to the AP by the PVV Overijssel', research report of the department
Primary Care Examination (EL), dated November 18, 2019.
 
In a letter dated December 11, 2019, the AP has an intention to enforce the PVV Overijssel
sent together with the aforementioned research report and the underlying documentation, whereby
the PVV was also given the opportunity to express its views. The PVV Overijssel has
letter dated 28 January 2020 expressed its view in writing.
 
Based on the report with findings, the underlying documentation and the opinion of the PVV
Overijssel, the AP has established the following relevant facts.
 
A fraction employee of the PVV Overijssel sends an e-mail message on Thursday, January 10, 2019 with
the subject "Invitation of the Constituent Evening on January 28, 2018" to 101 addressees. Were here
for all recipients of the e-mail message, including the complainant, the e-mail addresses of all addressees
visible in the mailing list of the e-mail program.6
 
The text of the email reads:
 
 

“Dear friends of the PVV,

                                                                        
1 Extract Chamber of Commerce 14 March 2019, no. 52322017, appendix 7 to the research report.
2 See e.g. print screen website, appendix 6 to the research report.
3 Notification form, appendix 2 to the investigation report.
4 Information request from AP dated 15 May 2019, Appendix 4 to the investigation report.
5 Response from PVV Overijssel of 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the research report.
6 E-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.

 

 

2/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 

 
 

 

On Monday, January 28, 2019, the PVV Overijssel organizes a grassroots evening.
On this evening, the candidates for the Provincial Council elections of 20 March will be announced
2019 presented.
Members of Parliament of the PVV will also be present on this evening.
During this evening, all candidates will introduce themselves and there will be a number of speakers.
After the formal part, we would all like to talk to you and make it a pleasant one
night of!
The evening starts at 7.30 pm and the grassroots evening will take place in Hotel van der Valk
Hengelo.
The address: Bornsestraat 400, 7556 BN Hengelo.
Because we want to know how many people we can expect, we request that you contact us by e-mail.
e-mail to let us know if you are coming and with how many people.
Please send to secretariaat@pvvoverijssel.nl stating your name and the number
persons.
We look forward to seeing you! See you on the 28th!
Yours sincerely,
PVV Overijssel.”

 
In response to this invitation, the complainant sent the PVV Overijssel the following day a request for him
from the mailing list and to confirm it as such. In addition, the complainant gives - in summary
displayed – indicates that making available all e-mail addresses of serious carelessness
testifies in view of the privacy rules. In an email dated January 11, 2019, the employee of the PVV
Overijssel responded with an apology and confirmed that the complainant's data had been removed from the list. On 15
In January 2019, the complainant again received a message from the PVV Overijssel with the same invitation
for the event on January 28, 2019, this time without revealing invitee email addresses
goods. Once again, the complainant requests that his contact details be deleted.7
 
The AP has not yet received a report from the PVV Overijssel, so the violation is still pending
continues.
 
2. Legal framework
 
Pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to the whole or in part
automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data contained in a file
included or intended to be included therein.
 
Pursuant to Article 4 of the GDPR:
1. “Personal Data”: any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person
(“the data subject”); is considered identifiable a natural person who can directly or indirectly
be identified, in particular by an identifier such as a name, a
identification number, location data, […].

                                                                        
7 E-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.

 

 

3/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
2. “Processing”: an operation or set of operations relating to personal data or
a set of personal data, whether or not carried out by automated processes […].
7. “Controller”: a […] legal entity that, alone or jointly with others, achieves the purpose of
and determines the means of processing personal data; […].
12. “Personal Data Breach” means a security breach that occurs accidentally or on
unlawfully leads to the destruction, loss, alteration or unauthorized disclosure of
or the unauthorized access to data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.
 
Pursuant to Article 33, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, the controller will file a breach
connection with personal data has taken place, without unreasonable delay and, if
possible, no later than 72 hours after he has become aware of it, to the corresponding Article
55 competent supervisory authority unless it is unlikely that the breach related to
personal data poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. If the
notification to the supervisory authority is not made within 72 hours, it shall be accompanied by a
justification for the delay.
 
Recitals 75 and 76 of the GDPR state, inter alia, the following. The risk to the rights and
freedoms of persons can result from personal processing that results in material and
immaterial damage. This risk is particularly felt if the processing can lead to discrimination, among other things
and reputational damage. This risk can also be felt if personal data is processed from which
shows what someone's political opinion is. Risk assessment must take into account
with both the likelihood and the severity of the risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
The risk must be determined on the basis of an objective assessment. In addition, should be
determined whether the processing involves a risk or a high risk.
 
For example, it follows from the above considerations that appropriate protective measures
must be taken, which belong to the processing of personal data with such a load as
a political opinion.
 
3. Review
 
3.1 Processing of personal data and material scope GDPR
 
The aforementioned e-mail message dated 10 January 2019 concerns an invitation to a
grassroots evening on January 28, 20198 and is addressed to a group of 101 addressees, indicated therein
as “friends of the PVV”. The e-mail addresses are visible to all invitees in the address line of the email
e-mail.9 These e-mail addresses contain combinations of a first and last name, initial(s) and
last name, first and/or last name with a number, letters and/or numbers that cannot be used as a (personal) name
indicate, as well as info addresses, et cetera.
 

                                                                        
8 The subject line of the e-mail states '2018'. This is an apparent clerical error.
9 E-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.

 

 

4/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
(Part of) the recipients of the aforementioned e-mail can be recognized or can be recognized immediately
be reduced by a single search function.
 
Now on the basis of this data a natural person, including the complainant, can become directly or indirectly
identified, they qualify as personal data within the meaning of Article 4, opening words, and under 1,
of the GDPR.
 
As noted above, data on political views qualifies as
so-called 'special categories of personal data' as described in Article 9, first paragraph, of the
AVG.
 
The AP has established that with the sending of the email of January 10, 2019, there has been
processing of personal data revealing political views as referred to in Article 9, paragraph 1,
of the GDPR. As indicated by the PVV Overijssel in a letter of 24 May 2019, the recipients of
the invitation for the grassroots evening was previously reported to the PVV Overijssel and indicated
to be interested in receiving invitations.10 The view of the PVV Overijssel that the
reasons for interest in receiving e-mail messages such as invitations to
activities, can be diverse, the AP does not share. Being interested in a meeting of the PVV
Overijssel does not rule out the possibility that there are also interested parties who, from their political point of view, are interested in this
want to attend a meeting. The AP takes into account that this refers to the "constituency". Until
Finally, the AP points out that the PVV Overijssel does not exclude interested parties below
who want to attend this evening because of their political views.
 
Based on the above, the AP concludes that personal data of
persons who express a political opinion.
  
3.2 Controller
 
In the context of the question of whether Article 33(1) of the GDPR is being complied with, it is important to determine
who can be regarded as the controller as referred to in Article 4, opening words, and under 7 of the
AVG. For this, it is decisive who has the purpose of and the means for the processing of personal data
determines.
 
The PVV Overijssel is a foundation that aims to provide administrative and administrative assistance to the
fraction of the PVV in the Provincial Council of Overijssel.11 The PVV Overijssel has no
group relationship with another legal entity, such as the Party for Freedom association. Exclusively
the board represents the foundation.12
 

                                                                        
10 Letter PVV Overijssel of 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the investigation report.
11 Extract Chamber of Commerce 14 March 2019, no. 52322017, appendix 7 to the research report.
12 See deed of establishment of the Foundation Support Provincial Party Overijssel Party for Freedom (PVV), deed date 15
March 2011, consulted on 29 August 2019, Annex 8 to the research report.

 

 

5/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Every contribution posted on the website https://www.pvvoverijssel.nl/ relates exclusively to
the provincial politics of the province of Overijssel. All contributions are posted on behalf of 'Partij voor de
Freedom Overijssel'. Various image fragments from Youtube are shown on the website
public appearances of the PVV Overijssel shared. All this published media is by the account 'PVV
Overijssel' posted on Youtube. Only the PVV Overijssel can also be contacted via the website
become. The AP concludes from this finding that website management is in the hands of the PVV Overijssel.
 
The supporters of the PVV Overijssel are formed by donors, volunteers and sympathizers. To
to be able to unite and mobilize the PVV Overijssel recruits volunteers. In addition, the PVV
Overijssel gave substance to the active electability of the PVV in the province of Overijssel by,
among other things, to recruit candidates in three municipalities of the province for the electoral list of the PVV for
the municipal elections of 2018. The PVV Overijssel has the participation of the PVV in this
municipal elections in Overijssel in the municipalities of Almelo, Enschede and Twenterand
coordinated.13
 
The aim of recruiting volunteers and candidates for the 2018 municipal elections has led the
PVV Overijssel designed by placing a web form on its website in which, among other things
Name and address details, e-mail address, the availability for the City Council and/or volunteer, and the upload of
a CV must be processed by the PVV Overijssel.14
 
In its letter of 24 May 201915, the PVV Overijssel stated in response to the request for information from the AP16
indicated that she organizes various activities and worked with various mailing lists. The
she has sent an invitation for the grassroots evening to people who have previously reported to her
and have expressed an interest in receiving invitations. By a human
error of a group employee, the e-mail addresses were visible to everyone who used the relevant
received invitation. The PVV Overijssel says it has learned from this and internally appropriate
to have taken measures.
 
From the foregoing, the AP concludes that the PVV Overijssel independently determines which resources it uses
deems necessary to reach and activate its supporters in Overijssel. One of these resources
is sending email. The PVV Overijssel has control over the way in which the
personal data are processed and sets the purpose and means of the data processing in it
framework of this activity.
 
Based on the above, the AP designates the PVV Overijssel as the controller as
referred to in Article 4, preamble, and under 7, of the GDPR.
 
                                                                        
13 Print screen, appendix 6 to the research report.
14 Print screen, appendix 6 to the research report.
15 Letter PVV Overijssel dated 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the research report.
16 Information request from AP dated 15 May 2019, Appendix 4 to the investigation report.

 

 

6/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

3.3 Obligation to report personal data breaches to the AP
 
3.3.1 Personal Data Breach
 
Pursuant to Article 33(1) of the GDPR, the controller reports the breach
connection with personal data without unreasonable delay and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after it
has taken note of it, to the supervisory authority competent in accordance with Article 55,
unless the personal data breach is not likely to pose a risk to the
rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
For the question of whether there has been a violation of the duty to report within the meaning of Article 33(1) of the GDPR,
is first of all important to determine whether the sending of the e-mail of 10 January 2019 constitutes
of a so-called breach of security within the meaning of Article 4, preamble and under 12, of the
AVG.
 
What should be clear is that a breach is some kind of security incident. As indicated
Article 4, preamble and under 12, of the GDPR, however, only applies if there is a
personal data breach. The consequence of such a breach is that the
controller will not be able to guarantee that the principles relating to the
processing of personal data as described in Article 5 of the GDPR are complied with. This
highlights the difference between a security incident and a personal data breach –
it essentially means that all personal data breaches are security incidents
but that not all security incidents are necessarily breaches related to
are personal data. It is noted that a security incident is not limited to
threat models where an organization is attacked from the outside, but also includes incidents
resulting from internal processing.17
 
On January 10, 2019, a party employee of the PVV Overijssel sends an e-mail message with a
invitation for a grassroots evening to a group of 101 recipients. This was for all
recipients of the e-mail message, including the complainant, the e-mail address of addressees visible in the
mailing list of the e-mail program. The PVV Overijssel acknowledges in its response of 24 May 2019 to the
AP that this was highly undesirable and should never have happened.
 
In view of the above, the sending of the e-mail with the subject “Invitation of the Supporters
evening January 28, 2018” to a group of 101 addressees on January 10, 2019 by the PVV Overijssel
as a breach of security, which inadvertently resulted in an unauthorized
provision of personal data to all recipients of the e-mail. In the opinion of the AP
this constitutes a personal data breach as referred to in Article 4, part 12,
of the GDPR.18

                                                                        
17 Guidance on personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, p. 8.
18 Cf. sample direct marketing email, Guidance on Personal Data Breach Notification pursuant to
Regulation 2016/679, p. 39.

 

 

7/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
3.3.2 Notification obligation to the AP
 
The notification obligation as laid down in Article 33(1) of the GDPR is mainly aimed at this
encouraging controllers to take immediate action in the event of a breach, the breach
to limit, restore the compromised personal data if possible and the
supervisory authority for advice. Due to the breach within the first 72 hours of the
supervisory authority, the controller can satisfy itself that
decisions about whether or not to notify individuals are correct.19
 
3.3.2.1 The moment at which the PVV Overijssel became aware of the infringement
Following the sending of the e-mail from the PVV Overijssel on 10 January 2019, the complainant has
January 11, 2019 responded and the PVV Overijssel requested to remove his e-mail address from its address file
to delete. The complainant also informs the PVV Overijssel that making all e-mails available
e-mail addresses and thereby traceable personal data shows serious carelessness. On this
the PVV Overijssel responded with an email on January 11, 2019 with apologies. Therefore, the PVV
Overijssel took note of the infringement in any event on 11 January 2019.20
 
3.3.2.2 Personal data breach risk assessment
The GDPR imposes a notification obligation on all controllers, unless it is unlikely
that an infringement poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. This must per
be assessed on a case-by-case basis.21
 
According to the PVV Overijssel, the AP refers in part 3.4.222 of its investigation report
to the “Guidelines for Personal Data Breach Notifications under
Regulation 2016/679', wrongly starts from the concept 'that the personal data breach
poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.” In the Guidelines (page 26)
however, the term is used: 'that the infringement poses a high risk to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons.’ According to the Guidelines, therefore, a normal risk is not
sufficient, it must be a high risk, according to the PVV Overijssel.
 
The AP believes that the PVV Overijssel assumes an incorrect reading of the Guidelines. In there
a distinction is made between the report to the AP and the report to the person(s) involved:
 
“IV. Assessment of the risk and high risk
 

A. Risk as a reason for reports/announcements

 

                                                                        
19 Guidance on personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, p. 18.
20 See e-mail correspondence in the period from 10 to 15 January 2019, appendix 3 to the research report.
21 Guidance on personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, p. 9.
22 This means 3.5.2 Risk assessment.

 

 

8/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Although the GDPR introduces the obligation to report a breach, this is not the case in all circumstances
obliged:

 A breach must be reported to the competent supervisory authority unless it
unlikely to pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
means.

 A breach is only communicated to the person if it is likely that they will have a high

poses a risk to rights and freedoms.”23

 
In the investigation report, the AP found that the PVV Overijssel was obliged to report the infringement
report to the AP. In that context, it must therefore be assessed whether it is unlikely that the
infringement poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
 
In its opinion, the PVV Overijssel also disputes that there is such a risk. To that end
it argues, among other things, that the processing is only a processing of ordinary, not being special
personal data is concerned. The PVV Overijssel states that it is unlikely that physical,
material or immaterial damage arises and that it has rightly established with regard to the infringement
that the infringement is not likely to pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons
persons. According to the PVV Overijssel, it was not obliged to report the infringement to the AP.
 
The AP considers the following in this regard. In the Guidelines, with reference to the
recitals 75 and 76 of the GDPR, identified factors that are important in the assessment of risks,
namely: nature of the infringement; nature, sensitivity and extent of the personal data; ease with which
persons can be identified; seriousness of consequences for persons; special features of
the person; special characteristics of the controller; the number of people affected;
and general points. The nature and sensitivity of the personal data affected by the breach
compromised are an important factor in this. Usually, the more sensitive the data, the larger
the risk of harm to those involved.24 When the breach relates to personal data
which shows a political opinion, material or immaterial damage (such as discrimination and
reputational damage) for the persons whose data is the subject of the breach as likely
be considered.25
 
The email sent on January 10, 2019 to 101 recipients contains email addresses with
personal data of the data subjects. For this, the AP has considered that there is processing
of personal data revealing political views. Considering the subject and the target group of
the e-mail, an invitation to a constituency meeting of a political party, as well as the contents of
that meeting, it is most likely that the addressees will include persons of interest
have in the ideas of the PVV. Such information could have consequences for a
current or future social position. Furthermore, the Guidelines regarding the

                                                                        
23 Guidance on personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, p. 26.
24 Guidance on personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, p. 28 ff.
25 Guidance on personal data breach notification under Regulation 2016/679, p. 26 and 27.

 

 

9/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
factor 'special characteristics of the controller' indicated that the nature and role of the
controller and its activities may affect the risk of a breach
means for individuals. For example, a political organization processes special categories of personal data,
meaning there is a greater threat to individuals if their personal data has been breached.
This implies a greater responsibility on the part of the political organization for a high
level of protection. Finally, it is noted in this context that the infringement is a
affects a relatively large number of people, namely (part of) those involved behind the mailing list of
interested in invitations to activities of the PVV Overijssel.
 
Given these circumstances, there is no question that the breach is not likely to pose a risk
means for the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. The PVV Overijssel was therefore held to the
to report a violation to the AP.
 
3.3.2.3 Latest date on which PVV Overijssel should have reported the infringement to the AP
Now that the PVV Overijssel has become aware of the infringement in connection with
with the personal data, she had a report without unreasonable delay and at the latest within 72 hours
have to do to the AP as the competent supervisory authority. The PVV Overijssel therefore had an appearance
had to report to the AP on January 14, 2019, but has failed to do so to date.
 
In view of the foregoing, the AP is of the opinion that PVV Overijssel has violated Article 33, first paragraph, of the AVG
violated by failure to make the personal data breach without unreasonable
delay and at the latest within 72 hours after PVV Overijssel became aware of the
infringement, to be reported to the AP.
 
4. Fine
 
4.1 Introduction

 

If a controller fails to notify a personal data breach
from the supervisory authority, despite meeting the requirements of Article 33 of the
GDPR is met, the supervisory authority is offered a choice in which all is at its disposal
standing corrective action should be considered, as well as the imposition of a fine.
 
In its opinion, the PVV Overijssel has explained and substantiated why it is of the opinion that it is not
was obliged to report to the AP. She is therefore of the opinion that there is no basis
for the imposition of a measure or administrative fine. Insofar as the AP shares the views of the PVV
Overijssel would not follow, it makes an explicit and motivated appeal to Article 7 'Relevant
factors” of the Fining Policy Rules.26
  

                                                                        
26 Policy rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority of 19 February 2019 with regard to determining the amount of
administrative fines (Fine Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019), Government Gazette no. 14586, March 14, 2019.

 

 

10/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP notes the following in this regard. By sending an invitation to a constituency evening
in which for all recipients of the e-mail message, the list of recipients is visible in the
mailing list of the e-mail program, the PVV Overijssel has provided unauthorized insight into all e-mail
e-mail addresses and in all names of the recipients, being persons with an interest in the ideas of
the PVV. By sending the e-mail are therefore personal data revealing political views
appear shared with all recipients of the e-mail and has violated the right of respect
privacy and the right to the protection of personal data of a large number
data subjects who have lost control of their personal data as a result. It
failure to report this personal data breach to the AP in a timely manner
is, in the opinion of the AP, a serious violation. That the PVV Overijssel has no report of this
made because it concerned people who indicated that they would like to receive mail periodically,27 makes
that's no different.
 
The AP sees reason to make use of its power to impose a fine under Article 58,
second paragraph, preamble and under i and Article 83, fourth paragraph, of the GDPR, read in conjunction with Article 14,
third paragraph, of the UAVG, on the PVV Overijssel.
 
Pursuant to article 83, paragraph 4, under a, of the AVG, violations of article 33 of the AVG are
subject to administrative fines of up to €10,000,000 in accordance with paragraph 2 or, for a
company, up to 2% of the total worldwide annual turnover in the previous financial year, if this figure
is higher.

 

4.2 Fining Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019 (Fining Policy Rules 2019)

 

The AP has established Fining Policy Rules 2019 regarding the implementation of the aforementioned power to
imposing an administrative fine, including determining the amount thereof.
 
Pursuant to Article 2, under 2.1, of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the provisions regarding violation
of which the AP can impose an administrative fine not exceeding the amount of € 10,000,000 […] in
annex 1 classified in category I, category II or category III. In Annex 1, the violation of Article 33,
first paragraph, of the AVG classified in category III.

 

Pursuant to Article 2.3 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP sets the basic fine for violations
for which a statutory maximum fine of € 10,000,000 applies [...] fixed within the period stipulated in that article
penalty bandwidths. The following applies to violations in category III of Appendix 1 of the 2019 Fining Policy Rules
a fine bandwidth between €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €525,000.
 
Pursuant to Article 6 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP determines the amount of the fine by the amount
from the basic fine upwards (up to a maximum of the bandwidth of the
offense linked penalty category) or down (to at least the minimum of that

                                                                        
27 Letter PVV Overijssel dated 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the research report.

 

 

11/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
bandwidth). The basic fine is increased or decreased depending on the extent to which the
factors referred to in Article 7 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019 give cause to do so.

 

Pursuant to Article 7 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP, without prejudice to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of
the General Administrative Law Act (Awb) takes into account the following factors derived from Article 83,
second paragraph, of the AVG, in the Policy Rules referred to under a to k:
a. the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the
processing in question as well as the number of data subjects affected and the extent of the harm suffered by them
injury;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the breach;
c. the measures taken by the controller […] to mitigate the losses suffered by data subjects
limit damage;
d. the extent to which the controller […] is responsible in view of the technical and
organizational measures he has implemented in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR;
e. previous relevant breaches by the controller […];
f. the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and
limit the possible negative consequences thereof;
g. the categories of personal data affected by the breach;
h. the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the breach, in particular whether, and
if so, to what extent, the controller […] has notified the breach;
i. compliance with the measures referred to in Article 58, second paragraph, of the GDPR, insofar as they are earlier
in respect of the controller […] in question in relation to the same
matter have been taken;
j. adherence to approved codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or of
approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR; and
k. any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial gains made, or losses avoided, which may or may not result directly from the breach
result.
 
Pursuant to Article 8.1 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP may, if the
fine category does not allow for an appropriate punishment in the concrete case, when determining the amount of
the fine the fine bandwidth of the next higher category or the fine bandwidth of the
apply next to lower category.
 
Pursuant to Article 9 of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP, when setting the fine,
taking into account the financial circumstances of the offender. In case of reduced or
insufficient capacity of the offender, the AP can further moderate the fine to be imposed, if,
after application of article 8.1 of the policy rules, determination of a fine within the fine range
of the next lower category would, in its opinion, nevertheless lead to a disproportionately high fine.

 

 

 

12/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
4.3 Fine amount
 
According to the AP, the following factors mentioned in Article 7 are particularly relevant in this case
determining the fine amount:
a. the nature, seriousness and duration of the breach;
b. the intentional or negligent nature of the breach (culpability);
c. the measures taken by the controller or processor to
mitigate the damage suffered by those involved.
 
4.3.1 Nature, seriousness and duration of the breach
 
Pursuant to Article 7, preamble and under a, of the Fining Policy Rules 2019, the AP takes into account the nature,
the seriousness and duration of the infringement.
 
The protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right.
Pursuant to Article 8(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 16,
Everyone has the right to, paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
protection of his personal data. The principles and rules regarding the protection of
natural persons when processing their personal data must comply with
their fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular their right to protection
personal data. The GDPR aims to contribute to the creation of an area of freedom,
security and justice and of an economic union, as well as to economic and social progress, the
strengthening and convergence of economies within the internal market and the well-being of natural
persons. The processing of personal data must serve people. The right to
protection of personal data is not absolute, but must be considered in relation
to its function in society and must, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, against others
fundamental rights are considered. Any processing of personal data must be fair and lawful
to happen. The personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to
what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. Personal data must be
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security and confidentiality of that data,
also to prevent unauthorized access to or the unauthorized use of personal data and
the equipment used for processing. With the AVG is an effective protection of
personal data is intended.
 
Reporting breaches should be seen as a means of ensuring compliance with related rules
improve the protection of personal data. If a breach related to
personal data takes place or has taken place, this may result in physical, material or
immaterial damage to natural persons or any other economic or social disadvantage
the person in question. Therefore, the controller should, as soon as he becomes aware of
a personal data breach to the supervisory authority without delay and if possible within 72 hours
notify you of the personal data breach. The supervisor is involved in this
to properly perform its tasks and powers, as laid down in the GDPR.

 

 

13/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
The PVV Overijssel believes that the nature and scope of the infringement is limited, now that it is a single e-mail
e-mail message with a general indication without any information regarding the data subject
is processed differently than the e-mail address.
 
The AP does not follow the PVV Overijssel in this. It should be stated that the PVV Overijssel van
January 14, 2019 to date has not made the legally required notification of this infringement to the AP. Bee
in its assessment, the DPA assumes that the infringement concerns 101 persons, which is also mentioned
of a special category of personal data, namely those revealing political opinions. The
AP considers the violation serious in view of this, but sees no reason to increase the basic fine
increase or decrease.
 
4.3.2 Intentional or negligent nature of the infringement (culpability)
 
Pursuant to Section 5:46(2) of the Awb, when imposing an administrative fine, the AP
take into account the extent to which this can be attributed to the offender. Now that this is one
violation, it is not required for the imposition of an administrative fine in accordance with established case law28
it is demonstrated that there is intent and the AP may assume culpability if the
perpetrator is established.29
 
The PVV Overijssel believes that there is no intentional or negligent nature of the infringement. She
has immediately made the assessment that it should make in accordance with Article 33 of the GDPR upon detection
and has ruled on legitimate grounds that there is no obligation to report the infringement to the AP.
 
The AP notes that insofar as such a consideration would have already taken place, the PVV Overijssel
not performed it correctly. She has as grounds for not reporting the infringement to the AP
indicated: “It concerns an invitation that has been sent to people who have previously reported to
us and have expressed interest in receiving our invitations.” And we
did not report this, because it concerned people who indicated periodic
want to receive our mail.” In addition, the PVV Overijssel has indicated in that context that it is “not about
an involuntary group of people goes”.30 However, this is not a criterion on the basis of which it would be possible
be concluded that this would be a non-notifiable infringement. At the time
that the PVV Overijssel had knowledge of the incident, she had wrongly based on the nature of the
provided personal data must make a risk assessment and then report the breach
at the AP. PVV Overijssel has nevertheless failed to notify the AP.
 

                                                                        
28 Cf. CBb 29 October 2014, ECLI:NL:CBB:2014:395, r.o. 3.5.4, CBb 2 September 2015, ECLI:NL:CBB:2015:312, r.o. 3.7 and CBb 7 March 2016,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:54, r.o. 8.3, ABRvS 29 August 2018, ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:2879, r.o. 3.2 and ABRvS December 5, 2018,
ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:3969, r.o. 5.1.
29 Parliamentary Papers II 2003/04, 29702, no. 3, p. 134.
30 Letter PVV Overijssel dated 24 May 2019, appendix 5 to the research report.

 

 

14/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
In view of the foregoing, the AP considers it culpable that the PVV Overijssel did not report to
the AP, but sees no reason to do so on the basis of this established culpability
increase or decrease the basic fine amount.
 
4.3.3 Measures taken to limit the damage suffered by those involved

 

The PVV Overijssel has indicated that it has its working method and processes immediately after detection
adjusted to prevent such an error from being made again and that this
measures have proven to be effective.
 
The AP considers that no measures have been taken to mitigate the (possible) damage suffered by those involved
to limit. A political organization such as the PVV Overijssel can be expected to act properly
is aware of the sensitivity of the personal data it processes and an appropriate one
level of protection is guaranteed. It was not until after the incident that she indicated that someone internally would be involved
proficient in the AVG.
 
In the circumstances put forward, the AP therefore sees no reason to increase the basic amount of the fine
pursuant to Article 7, under c of the 2019 Policy Rules.
 
4.3.4 Proportionality
 
Finally, the AP assesses whether the
application of its policy for determining the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome. Applying the principle of proportionality
means, according to the Fining Policy Rules 2019, that the AP, if necessary, when setting the fine
takes into account the financial circumstances of the offender.
 
The PVV Overijssel has indicated that as a non-profit political foundation it has very limited
has financial resources.
 
The AP considers as follows in this regard. Pursuant to Article 3 of the Foundation's Articles of Association
Support Provincial Group Overijssel Party for Freedom, it will be realized
purpose of the foundation earmarked capital formed by the financial contribution of the province
Overijssel, and what is obtained in another way. According to the Civil Service Assistance Regulation and
party support province of Overijssel, the factions receive an annual financial contribution as
contribution towards the costs for the functioning of the group. This allowance amounts to
maximum € 3,570.00 for each Member of Parliament belonging to that faction plus € 26,460.00 per faction (per 1
January 2019).31
 

                                                                        
31 Ordinance on civil service assistance and party support province of Overijssel 2016, Provincial Gazette no. 33, 2 January 2017 and no. 2734,
April 11, 2019.

 

 

15/16



 

Date
June 16, 2020

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
In view of this, the AP considers the capacity of the PVV Overijssel limited and comes to the conclusion that the PVV
Overijssel cannot financially bear the fine of € 525,000. On this basis, the AP sees
reason to reduce the fine. In this case, the AP considers a fine of € 7,500 appropriate and
commanded. In this context, the AP considers that it has not been shown that the PVV Overijssel would not pay this fine
can wear.
 
4.3.5 Conclusion

 

The AP sets the total fine amount at € 7,500.

5. Operative part

fine
 
The AP submits to the PVV Overijssel, due to violation of Article 33, first paragraph, of the AVG in the period
from 14 January 2019 to the present, imposed an administrative fine in the amount of € 7,500 (in words: seven thousand
five hundred euros).32
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority for Personal Data,
 
 
 
Mr. A. Wolfsen
Chair
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can within six weeks from the date of sending it
decides to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Submit it
of a notice of objection suspends the operation of this decision. For submitting a digital objection, see
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objecting to a decision, at the bottom of the
page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The address for submission on paper
is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
Mention 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'bezwaarschrift' in the title of your letter.
Write in your notice of objection at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your objection;
- the reference referred to in this letter (case number); or enclose a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you disagree with this decision;
- your signature.
                                                                        
32 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).
 

 

 

16/16

