Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 0037/2021  

The inquiry raises how to materialize the right to information provided for in Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data (GDPR), in relation to the processing of personal data derived from Ministerial Order TEC/544/2019, of April 25, which establishes and regulates the unified registry on certificates and training centers for fluorinated gases, based on the premise that the information held by the autonomous communities (CCAA) must be communicated to this state registry in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree 115/2017, of February 17, which regulates the marketing and handling of fluorinated gases and equipment based on them, as well as the certification of the professionals who use them.  

For this, certain aspects must be taken into account, according to the inquirer or the CAM hereinafter:  
a) The information held by the CCAA is a consequence of their certification activity for professionals who market and handle fluorinated gases and equipment based on them (under the repealed Royal Decree 795/2010, of June 16, and the aforementioned Royal Decree 115/2017 of February), so they handle two types of data: those provided with the certification application, and therefore provided by the interested parties, and those "generated" as a consequence of the certification, and therefore not directly provided by the affected parties. The inquirer considers that the exception provided for in Article 14.5 b) of the GDPR could apply to these latter data.  
b) The obligation to communicate the information held by the CCAA to the unified state registry created by the aforementioned Ministerial Order TEC/544/2019, and assigned to the Spanish Office for Climate Change (OECC) is subsequent to the collection of the personal data held by the CCAA, that is, it is a subsequent circumstance that was not initially contemplated in the initial processing and therefore this possibility was not communicated.  
c) The purpose of the unified state registry is, among others, that any citizen can consult it, and therefore, the personal data of certified professionals are accessible to third parties through the following link on the website of the Ministry for Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge: https://www.miteco.gob.es/app/gasfluorweb/  
d) The volume of data to be transferred and the obligation to inform the interested parties. There is a large number of potential interested parties certified by the Community since 2010, until in 2019 the indication was included in the application form for authorization to use fluorinated gases that their data could be consulted by any citizen. It is a group to be informed of around 18,000 people, which, given the age of the data, due to the time elapsed since 2010, could make the intended individual communication unfeasible, as there may have been changes of residence, or only have the address of the workplace, as well as lacking data such as mobile phone numbers (mainly they are landlines), which may also have changed over time, and email addresses, among other obstructive circumstances.  

Taking the above into account, it is raised whether it is possible to apply to the inquirer what is indicated in Article 14.5 b) of the GDPR and establish as an alternative measure for informing, the publication of this "new processing" on the website of the aforementioned regional public administration, since the inquirer considers that publication through official bulletins may not have the desired effectiveness.  

I  
From the inquiry, a general question is extracted regarding how the right to information provided for in Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR is affected by the circumstance that a data processing initially planned with specific characteristics and purposes is affected by the entry into force of a regulation that modifies the initial conditions of the processing.  

Indeed, the data processing that derived from the repealed Royal Decree 795/2010, of June 16, and from its successor, Royal Decree 115/2017 of February, provided for the registration in the Registry owned by the competent body designated by the Autonomous Community, of those certifications of professionals who use fluorinated gases and equipment based on them.  

Thus, Article 4 regulates the certification activity and determines that the CCAA for this activity will designate a competent body, and in Article 7.1 assigns to the CCAA the power to assign to a competent body the management of, among others, the registry of certificates.  

Article 4. Personal Certifications.  
1. The personal certifications listed in Annex I are the documents through which the Administration recognizes the holder's capacity to perform the activities designated therein in accordance with the previous article.  
2. The personal certifications will be valid throughout the Kingdom of Spain and in the European Union as established in Regulation (EU) No. 517/2014.
Legal Office
of the European Parliament and the Council, of April 16, 2014, on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No. 842/2006.
3. The autonomous communities shall designate the competent authority, which must be impartial, for the issuance, suspension, and withdrawal of personal certifications.
4. The various personal certifications shall be granted by said competent authority, individually, to all individuals who apply and demonstrate, in accordance with Article 5, compliance with the corresponding conditions set out in Annex I.
5. Each personal certification shall be issued in accordance with the format established in Annex III and registered in accordance with Article 7.
Article 7. Registration and single access
1. The autonomous communities shall designate an impartial competent authority in the performance of its activities for the maintenance of the following registers:
a) Register of issued certificates along with the cases related in Articles 6.2 and 6.3.
With the entry into force of Ministerial Order TEC/544/2019, of April 25, which establishes and regulates the unified register on certificates and training centers for fluorinated gases, the obligation of a new treatment of the data included in the aforementioned autonomous register is established, consisting of the communication of such information to the unified state register. Specifically, it is indicated in its Explanatory Memorandum that:
This order aims, consequently, at the establishment and administrative regulation of the Unified Register on certificates and training centers for fluorinated gases, based in the Ministry for Ecological Transition, in which the autonomous communities will collaborate by sending the information that constitutes its content.
And it establishes in its Article 2 under the designation Unified Register on certificates and training centers for fluorinated gases. Legal nature, scope of application, and content, in its section 4 the following:
4. This register will be periodically updated and through computer means from the updated registers of the autonomous communities that contain the information mentioned in the previous section, established under the provisions of Article 7.1 of Royal Decree 115/2017, of February 17. Under the terms established in its sole transitional provision, the certificates issued under Royal Decree 795/2010, of June 16, which regulates the marketing and handling of fluorinated gases and equipment based on them, as well as the certification of the professionals who use them, will also be incorporated.
The autonomous communities will inform certified professionals in advance that the essential personal data relating to them may be consulted by any citizen in this Unified Register.
To which must be added what is indicated in its Sole Transitional Provision regarding existing Certifications, according to which,
The certificates of professionals and companies, as well as the authorizations for training and evaluation centers, that have been issued in accordance with the provisions of Royal Decree 795/2010, of June 16, and Royal Decree 115/2017, of February 17, prior to the date of entry into force of this order, will be integrated into the Unified Register on certificates and training centers for fluorinated gases.
It is obvious that, materially, we are facing a new treatment that did not exist before, that is, previously the data used -and generated- related to professional qualification remained in the register of the granting autonomous community itself, and now, after Order TEC/544/2019, of April 25, it turns out that this data is communicated to a third party, to the OECC, and registered in a new register -Unified Register- and can be consulted via the internet by any citizen or company (this circumstance already occurred prior to the aforementioned Order.) Therefore, there will be a new assignee, the responsible party of the unified register, and although this situation was already anticipated, the third party that intends to consult this register will remain as a possible assignee.
II
Having laid out the terms of the inquiry, it is necessary to clarify beforehand that the responsible party of the autonomous register is not subject to the provisions indicated in Article 14 of the GDPR, since this provision refers to those cases in which the data is not provided by the data subject, but rather reaches the data controller through a third party.
Article 14, titled “Information to be provided when personal data have not been obtained from the data subject,” indicates:
1. When personal data have not been obtained from the data subject, the data controller shall provide the following information.
It should also be noted that this provision will not apply when the responsible party generates the data as a result of its activity. Consequently, its application will occur when a third party -unrelated to the data subject and the responsible party- communicates the data to the responsible party for processing.
Legal Office
It is important to clarify this point since the CAM, as inferred from the inquiry, seems to understand that to the extent that the data communicated to the unified registry is not purely, solely that provided by the interested party, but rather includes those resulting from its certifying activity (registration number, key number, date of granting, classification), Article 14 of the GDPR would apply. 
In the present case, the "information generated" after certification, in comparative terms with the "information provided by the interested party," is solely the Key, the certification number, and the date of granting. These will be the data that the interested party has not provided to the controller, but which, however, do not come to the controller through a third party unrelated to it; rather, it is the controller that has created them.
Indeed, the fact that some data is not provided directly by the interested party does not always mean that it has been provided by a third party unrelated to the data controller (which implies the application of Article 14 of the GDPR), but rather what happens in the present case is that the new information is created by the data controller, considering the specific purpose for which the personal data has been collected and for which it is legitimized to process, and of which the interested party must have been duly informed in accordance with Article 13.
Therefore, regarding the data processing carried out by the General Directorate of Industry, Energy and Mines (DIGEM hereinafter), it should be indicated that it is subject to the information regime provided for in Article 13 of the GDPR and not Article 14.
III
From Article 13 of the GDPR titled “Information to be provided when personal data is obtained from the data subject,” the following should be highlighted:
1. When personal data relating to the data subject is obtained from the data subject, the data controller, at the time the data is obtained, shall provide the data subject with all the information indicated below:
a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of its representative; (…)
c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended and the legal basis for the processing; (…)
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, where applicable; (…)
3. When the data controller intends to process personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected, it shall provide the data subject, prior to that further processing, with information on that other purpose and any other relevant information in accordance with paragraph 2.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                                     www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5
Legal Office
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent that the interested party already has the information. 
In this case, the communication of data to the unified registry is a subsequent processing, that is, not initially foreseen and not expressly informed to the interested parties at the time of data collection. 
However, it must be taken into account that it is a new processing carried out under the entry into force of a general legal provision that, at the time of data collection under the repealed Royal Decree 795/2010, of June 16, was impossible to foresee its existence. 
However, already in Royal Decree 115/2017 of February, which replaced it, the obligation to establish the unified registry was set forth in its article 7.2, the origin of which can be found in the Regulation (EU) 517/2014 of the Parliament and of the Council of April 16, 2014, on fluorinated greenhouse gases, which in its article 17, provides for the creation - no later than January 1, 2015 - of an electronic registry for these purposes. 
Therefore, the legal analysis must focus on how to satisfy the right to information of those individuals who registered under the Royal Decree of 2010 that did not foresee inclusion in the unified registry, since from the entry into force of Order TEC/544/2019, of April 25, the consulting Autonomous Community already expressly included the new processing in the informative clause established for this purpose. 
To provide a legal response, it is important to take into account the following: 
First, the literal wording of article 13.1 of the GDPR establishes “when” the information must be provided, “at the time it is obtained,” so that if at that moment the processing is not foreseen, obviously it cannot be informed; however, when a new processing is to be carried out, in addition to having an adequate legal basis, the duty to inform must be fulfilled, unless one of the causes that exempt from compliance with this duty occurs. 
In this case, it is appropriate to bring to mind the provisions of article 13.4 of the GDPR, which exempts from the duty of information in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, when and to the extent that the affected party has the information. 
This provision must be interpreted in connection with another element to be taken into account, the principle of publicity of the norms and the purpose pursued with their application, for we must not forget that the new processing is provided for in a general provision that is part of the legal system and, therefore, subject to the general principles of law, among which is the aforementioned principle. 
The publicity of the norms constitutes one of the pillars of the Rule of Law. Indeed, the Spanish Constitution, in its article 9, encompasses the principles in which it is based.
Legal Office
specifies the definition of the Rule of Law proclaimed in Article 1, and guarantees, in addition to legal certainty, the publicity of the norms. 
The Constitutional Court in its Judgment 179/1989, of November 2, has referred to this principle in the following terms: "The Constitution, in its Article 9.3, guarantees the principle of the publicity of the norms. This guarantee appears as an inescapable consequence of the proclamation of Spain as a Rule of Law, and is closely related to the principle of legal certainty enshrined in the same Article 9.3 C.E., since the legal positions of citizens, their ability to exercise and defend their rights, and the effective subjection of citizens and public authorities to the legal system can only be ensured if the recipients of the norms have an effective opportunity to know them as such norms, through a general dissemination instrument that certifies their existence and content, which is why those norms that are impossible or very difficult to know will evidently be contrary to the principle of publicity." 
This principle has a special relationship with the principle of legal certainty, which among other aspects serves to provide certainty to citizens regarding the legal consequences of their actions and the predictability of the response from the State and other subjects bound by the norm, under the protection of the legal system. 
Therefore, in the case of the consultation, the data subjects who registered under the indicated royal decrees are provided with instruments to know that the registration they made in the regional registry will be communicated to the unified state registry, since precisely the norm that has an impact on what is indicated in those royal decrees and, above all, that applies to their professional activity, provides for the existence of this new processing. Indeed, the data subjects who will be subject to processing are direct recipients of the norm that provides for such processing, and therefore, it is presumed that they are in a position to know how the new norm affects their personal data. 
Therefore, those personal data processing activities that are modified by the application of a general legal provision and that have guarantees of publicity, the data subjects will find in that publicity at least information about the existence of the new processing, and, if applicable, other aspects that were not disclosed since they were obviously not known even by the data controller. 
From that publicity, knowing the existence of a new processing, the affected party may address the controller or controllers to exercise their rights, particularly the right of access provided for in Article 15 of the GDPR. 
Another solution would impose a disproportionate effort on the data controller. Consider, for example, a large volume data processing carried out by a public administration under its competencies, or a private entity that handles millions of data from its clients and that after the entry into force of a new norm that applies to it, it is foreseen that the data it manages will be processed for another purpose or communicated to a third party, not initially provided for. It would be unreasonable to require the disproportionate effort of informing each data subject. In practice, as an adequate and complementary solution, privacy policies should be updated both in digital media and in data collection forms - as is the case with the consultation - and it should be taken into account that the existence of that new processing is recorded in a norm entitled to the corresponding publicity. 
In conclusion, in those cases where there is personal data processing and after the entry into force of a general provision, certain aspects of it are modified concerning the data processed previously, the principle of publicity of the norms serves, among other purposes, to provide information about the existence of the new processing, and from there, the affected party may exercise, as appropriate, the rights they deem necessary, such as the right of access. 
IV
What is resolved in this report should not be interpreted to mean that any processing based on a general legal provision does not need to be informed in accordance with Article 13 of the GDPR, -since its validity and application remain intact-, but rather that the specific circumstances referred to have been taken into account, on the one hand, that the data controller did not provide certain information, simply because the circumstances did not exist or could not be foreseen when the data was obtained -it is a subsequent processing-, and on the other hand, considering that the processing occurs as a result of the entry into force of a norm subject to the principle of publicity provided for in Article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution and whose direct recipients are the data subjects whose personal data will be subject to processing.