1/10

 File No.: EXP202105262

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated October 16,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

As stated, from the web www.mascotagadget.com, an online store where
sell pet products, your personal data would be transferred to
third parties without the user's consent and without informing them.
Ensures that the items they sell are items made in China for which the
Responsible for the web provides customer data directly to the provider
Chinese without informing it and without obtaining the informed consent of the clients.

Next to the notification, an image of the label of the package of your order is provided
in which the address of a third party appears as sender in which it appears as
contact "(...)" and not the address of the person in charge that is provided on the web.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP) by certified postal mail, was returned by
"a stranger";

No response has been received to this letter of transfer.

THIRD: On January 16, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

INVESTIGATED ENTITIES

During these proceedings, the following entities have been investigated:

B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 with address at ***ADDRESS.1

RESULT OF INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

On 07/29/2022, it is verified, regarding the petogadget.com website, that:

It has a web page for the sale of pet supplies. which includes a

1.
shopping cart and a way for users to create their account.

2.

That the privacy policy states:

“[…]

SECTION 4 – SHOPIFY

Our store is hosted on Shopify Inc.

[…]

SECTION 5 - THIRD PARTY SERVICES

In general, the third-party providers used by us only
will collect, use and disclose your information as necessary
to allow them to perform the services they provide to us.

However, some third-party service providers, such as
payment gateways and other payment transaction processors, have their
own privacy policies with respect to the information we are
obliged to provide them for transactions related to the
shopping.

For these providers, we recommend that you read the privacy policies
so that you can understand how your personal information will be
handled.

In particular, remember that some providers may be located or
have facilities that are located in a different jurisdiction than you or
us. So, if you want to proceed with a transaction that involves the
services of a provider to third parties, your information may be subject to the
laws of the jurisdiction (Spanish and China) in which the provider is located
of services or its facilities.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

As an example, if you are in Canada and your transaction is processed
through a US-based payment gateway, then your
personal information used to complete the transaction may be subject
disclosure under United States law, including the Law
Patriot.

[…]”

3.

That in the terms of service it consists:

“[…]

SECTION 8 - THIRD PARTY LINKS

Certain content, products and services available via our Service may
include third party material. Third party links on this site
may direct you to third-party websites that are not affiliated with
us. We are not responsible for examining or evaluating the content or
accuracy and we do not warrant and shall not have any obligation or liability
by any materials from third parties or websites, or from any material,
third party products or services.

We are not responsible for any damages or damages related to the
acquisition or use of goods, services, resources, content, or any
other transaction made in connection with third party websites.

Please carefully review the policies and practices of third parties and
make sure you understand them before engaging in any transaction. complaints,
complaints, concerns, or questions regarding third-party products should be
be directed to the third party.

[…]”

That, after consulting three specific products, there is no indication that
4.
are products supplied by third parties, neither in the product file nor in the cart
of the purchase.

As a consequence of the request for information made by the inspection, with
date 09/01/2022 is downloaded from the web portal enabled for this purpose by SHOPIFY
INTERNATIONAL LIMITED, the response to said information requirement
sent to SHOPIFY INTERNATIONAL LIMITED through its Legal Portal located
at https://legal.shopify.com/Shopify-lawEnfForm/en/. That in said answer it consists
as owner of the www.mascotagadget.com store to the following:

B.B.B.

***ADDRESS.2

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Email: ***EMAIL.1

On 09/01/2022, the Tax Agency Planning and Relations Service
Institutional sends to this Agency identity data and fiscal address of B.B.B..

On 09/01/2022, a request for information is sent to B.B.B. by mail
Postcard. No response has been received to date.

In the privacy policy and in the terms of service it is mentioned that certain
products may be from third parties and that the data may be processed by the
themselves.

FOURTH: On December 27, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged violation of Article 13 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the period granted
for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision of which the claimed party was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
arguments within the established term on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infringement of the GDPR attributed to the defendant and the sanction that could
impose. Therefore, taking into consideration that the claimed party has not
made allegations to the agreement to start the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initiation agreement is
considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is accredited that the owner of the store to which the page corresponds
web: www.mascotagadget.com is the claimed party.

SECOND: It is proven that the privacy policy of the website does not
complies with all the requirements established in article 13 of the GDPR, since it is not
informs of the period during which the personal data will be kept, or of the
Possibility of filing a claim with the supervisory authority.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

breached obligation

Pursuant to article 5.1 of the GDPR, the processing of personal data must be governed by
by the following principles:

"1. Personal data will be:

to)

treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner with the interested party (...)

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ”

One of the manifestations of the principle of transparency is the right that the GDPR
grants the owners of the data to receive information and the correlative obligation that
requires the data controller to provide the data subject with the information
detail articles 12, 13 and 14 of the GDPR.

These last two provisions contemplate two different assumptions: That the data is
obtained directly from the interested party (article 13), as happens on the website
www.mascotagadget.com, or that the data is not obtained from the interested party (article
14).

Article 13 of the GDPR establishes:

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time they are obtained, will provide you with
all the information listed below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection officer, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended and the legal basis
of the treatment;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, in their
case; f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision of
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second subparagraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been lent.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party, at the time the data is obtained
personal data, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of their treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a control authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
significant about the applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person responsible for the treatment plans the subsequent processing of data
personal information for a purpose other than that for which it was collected, will provide the
data subject, prior to said further processing, information about that other purpose
and any additional information pertinent under section 2. 4. The
provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
that the interested party already has the information.”

Recitals 39 and 60 of the GDPR help to specify the scope of the right
of information that is given to the interested parties.

Recital 39 establishes: "All processing of personal data must be lawful and
loyal. It must be completely clear to natural persons that they are being collected,
using, consulting or otherwise processing personal data that
concerned, as well as the extent to which said data is or will be processed. The beginning
of transparency requires that all information and communication related to the treatment of
said data is easily accessible and easy to understand, and that language is used

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

simple and clear. This principle refers in particular to the information of the
interested parties on the identity of the person responsible for the treatment and the purposes of the treatment and
to the information added to guarantee a fair and transparent treatment with
regarding the natural persons affected and their right to obtain confirmation and
communication of personal data concerning them that are subject to
treatment. Natural persons must be aware of the risks,
rules, safeguards and rights relating to the processing of personal data,
as well as how to assert your rights in relation to the treatment. In
In particular, the specific purposes of the processing of personal data must be
explicit and legitimate, and must be determined at the time of collection. [...].”

Recital 60 clarifies that "The principles of fair and transparent treatment
require that the data subject be informed of the existence of the processing operation and
their ends. The data controller must provide the interested party with all
additional information is necessary to guarantee fair treatment and
transparent, taking into account the specific circumstances and context in which
process personal data. The interested party must also be informed of the existence
profiling and the consequences of profiling. if the data
data are obtained from data subjects, they must also be informed whether they are
obliged to provide them and of the consequences in case they did not do so.”

In the present case, there is no evidence that data transfers are made for which
requires the consent of the interested party.

Likewise, it is observed that the privacy policy does not meet all the requirements
established in article 13 of the GDPR, since the period during which the
personal data will be kept, or the possibility of filing a claim
before the supervisory authority.

Classification and classification of the offense

II

Article 83.5 of the GDPR, under the heading "General conditions for the taxation
of administrative fines” provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22;
(…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 74 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

The remaining infractions of a nature are considered minor and will prescribe after one year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in sections 4 and 5 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the
right to information of the affected party for not providing all the information required
by articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

IV.

Sanction proposal

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount
considers that it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to the criteria that
establishes article 83.2 of the GDPR.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
criteria established in section 2 of article 76 "Sanctions and corrective measures"
of the LOPDGDD.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR and the
Article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed by violating the
established in article 13 of the GDPR, allows setting a penalty of €500 (five hundred
euro).

V

Measures

In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each
The supervisory authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
processing operations comply with the provisions of this
Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a time limit
specified…"
It is indicated that, within 30 days from the receipt of this resolution, the
The claimed party must proceed to complete the privacy policy on its page
web, since personal data is collected

The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administration, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article 13
of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of 500 euros
(Five hundred euros)..

SECOND: ORDER a, B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, according to article 58.2.d) of the
GDPR, for a violation of article 13 of the GDPR typified in article 83.5.b) of the
aforementioned Regulation, which, within a period of 30 days computed from the present
resolution is enforceable, proceed to complete the privacy policy on your page
web, and that personal data is collected and to notify the AEPD of its compliance.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
 IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-00000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
restricted no.
CAIXESBBXXX), opened on behalf of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

