REPORT
ANNUAL
    2021
2021 ANNUAL REPORT
CONTENTS
5 Controls provided for by provisions
1 INTRODUCTION P4
                                                        specific legal P80

2 FOREWORD P10 6 European cooperation P80

3 A YEAR IN NUMBERS P16 THE PROTECTION OF PRIVACY IN
                                                         THE COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021 P26 ELECTRONICS P83
   ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK
   OF THE GENERAL REGULATION ON 1 Data breaches in the sector
   DATA PROTECTION P29 electronic communications P83

1 Raise public awareness P29 2 Retention of traffic data
                                                        and location P84
2 Respond to requests for information
  individuals and professionals P36 INTERNATIONAL WORK
                                                         IN THE FIELD OF PROTECTION
                                                         P87 DATA
3 Intervene in the legislative process P38
                                                      1 European Data Protection Board (EDPB) P88
4 Guiding private and public actors P44
                                                      2 International Conference
5 Appointment of delegates
                                                        of the Global Privacy Assembly (GPA) P93
  data protection P46
                                                      3 Spring Conference of Authorities
6 Support P50 compliance
                                                        data protection regulations P95

7 Dealing with complaints from citizens P59
                                                      4 The “European Case” seminar
                                                        Handling Workshop » P95
8 Analyze data breaches P64

9 Control and Adopt
                                                      5 RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
  corrective measures P69 AND OPERATION P96
                                                      1 Human Resources P98
   CONTROL OF THE PROCESSING OF
   DATA FROM LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES 2 Organization of the CNPD P103
   OR NATIONAL SECURITY P77
                                                      3 Relative management report
1 Requests for information P77
                                                        to the financial statements for the 2021 financial year P104
2 Reviews P78
                                                      6 APPENDICES P110
3 Complaints P79 Appendices can be downloaded
                                                      on the CNPD website at
4 Notification of data breaches P79 https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/publications/rapports/index.html




                                                  3
INTRODUCTION
The National Data Protection Commission
(CNPD) is an independent public institution with
of legal personality. She enjoys independence
financial and administrative.

It is responsible for verifying the legality of files and
of all collections, uses and transmissions of
information about identifiable individuals
and must ensure in this context respect for the freedoms
and fundamental rights of natural persons,
especially their private lives.
1 INTRODUCTION




E
      In particular, it must control and verify whether the data subject to processing are processed
      in accordance with the provisions:

• the General Data Protection Regulation;
• the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
  data and the general data protection regime;
• the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
  personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security;
• the amended law of 30 May 2005 on the protection of privacy in the sector of
  electronic communications;
• legal texts providing for specific data protection provisions
  of a personal nature.

It is not competent to control the processing operations of personal data.
personnel carried out by the courts of the judiciary, including the public prosecutor, and
administrative order in the exercise of their judicial functions. This mission falls to
the judicial data protection supervisory authority.




                                                 6
Tasks
The CNPD aims to protect life SUPERVISE AND ENSURE
of citizens and to ensure respect for TRANSPARENCY THROUGH:
legislation on the protection of • on-site visits relating to the protection
data which entrusts it with the following missions: data following complaints or
                                                     its own initiative;
INFORM AND GUIDE WITH: • audits relating to the protection of
• public awareness and understanding following complaints or their
  management of risks, rules, guarantees and own initiative;
  rights relating to processing; • intervention following violations of
• raising the awareness of data processing managers;
  ment and subcontractors with regard to • the maintenance of internal records of
  the obligations incumbent on them. GDPR violations;
                                                   • establishment and maintenance of a list
ADVISE THROUGH: in connection with the obligation to carry out an
• opinions relating to bills and impact assessments relating to the protection of
  given regulatory or administrative measures;
  concerning the processing of data • the approval of the corporate rules constraining
  personal; troublesome;
• suggestions and recommendations for • review of certifications and monitoring
  information to government, especially about certifiers;
  relevant developments, to the extent • the adoption of corrective measures (e.g.
  where they have an impact on the protection warning, prohibition of processing or
  personal data, in particular administrative fine).
  ment in the field of technologies of
  information and communication and COOPERATE THROUGH:
  business practices; • exchanges with other regulatory authorities
• the promotion of best practices and national or foreign public control;
  cation of thematic guidelines; • contribution to the activities of the Committee
• the approval of codes of conduct, European data protection.
  certification schemes and the approval of
  certification bodies;
• recommendations to the head of the
  treatment in accordance with the procedure of
  prior consultation.




                                                           7
1 INTRODUCTION



    Values
    The CNPD independently exercises the missions assigned to it. She
    determines its own priorities within the limits of its legal framework. She chooses her
    priorities, in particular on the basis of criteria such as the seriousness and scope of potential
    violations of the law and the extent of the individuals affected.


    Expertise is very important for the CNPD, support for its work and invites dialogue.
    who is dedicated to quality work. At this The CNPD is open, honest and visible. She pro-
    end, the CNPD strives to work in a positive and respectful atmosphere.
    interdisciplinary teams and invests in
    the continuous development of its agents The CNPD is proud to work for the protection
    to improve their knowledge and knowledge of a fundamental right. She bears witness to
    SKILLS. his commitment to his work and his
                                                        personal and constitutes a separate player
    The CNPD ensures transparency with regard to the entire socio-economic environment
    its results and its choices, which generates a Luxembourger.




                                           8
MIDDLE SCHOOL :
ALAIN HERRMANN, THIERRY LALLEMANG,
   TINE A. LARSEN AND MARC LEMMER.




                9
HEADQUARTERS
    OF THE CNPD
     IN BELVAL




FOREWORD
2 FOREWORD




                                      TINE A. LARSEN
                                            President
   The CNPD, like its European counterparts within
      of the EDPB, monitor new technologies and
emerging, as well as their potential impact on the rights
       fundamentals and the daily lives of citizens.




                              12
MADAME LARSEN, THIS IS THE TIME according to the records). We also took a
TO ASSESS 2021. WHAT DECISION HAVE BEEN DEVELOPED IN THE FRAMEWORK OF EU COOPERATION?
WERE THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE EUROPEAN YEAR against Amazon, with a
FOR THE CNPD? administrative fine of 746 million euros.

Tine A. Larsen: Several things are to be put IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THESE INVESTIGATIONS,
highlighted. First, in the context of WHAT WERE THE ISSUES
Covid-19 pandemic, we assured ANALYZED BY THE CNPD?
continuity of day-to-day business in the
compliance with the health protocols in force: The majority of decisions (25 in total) were
requests for information, complaints received as part of the investigation campaign
national or European positions… Despite the themes on the function of delegate to
difficulties linked to the pandemic, the CNPD has data protection. 20 decisions
continued its missions. We also concerned the data processing carried out
welcomed a new commissioner in the via a remote monitoring system and/or a
person of Mr. Alain Hermann, geolocation device. Finally, 4 decisions
in charge of certification. In addition, they covered various themes:
their, CNPD officers prosecuted personal data breaches,
their involvement in the various sub-groups illicit use of the database
of the European Committee for the Protection of JU-CHA in the framework of a procedure of
data (EDPB). But above all, we were able to recruit a state employee within
blied our first decisions following the judicial administration…
investigations that we have opened since
the entry into force of the GDPR in 2018. COVID-19 ALSO MARKED THE YEAR
                                                  2021 AND THE WORK OF THE CNPD.
YOU MENTION INVESTIGATIONS AND WHAT EXACTLY ABOUT IT?
DECISION-MAKING. CAN YOU
TELL US MORE? The CNPD and all of its employees
                                                  continued their work throughout 2021,
Our investigations have mainly started in compliance with the protocols and measures
in the course of 2020 and toilet outlets. In particular, we were brought
decisions were made in 2021. In total, this means providing answers to citizens on their
are no less than 49 files that have been straight with respect to the terms of use
closed, with or without corrective measures of their personal data, in particular
and/or fines. In detail, 12 surveys have health. We have published recommendations
were closed in the absence of breaches of information to guide professionals in
retained, but 37 investigations resulted in me- the continuation of their activities; We have
corrective measures, including 25 with fines. compiled a list of FAQs relating to the use
In total, 48 decisions related to the CovidCheck.lu application... On the other hand,
national affairs, with an overall amount as in 2020, we advised the
319,500 euros in administrative fines Government for Covid-19 bills
(i.e. between 1,000 and 150,000 euros in successive fines.




                                                         13
2 FOREWORD


    COVID-19 HAS NOT MONOPOLYIZED THE EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD
    THROUGHOUT 2021. ON WHICH (EDPB) IS MADE UP OF REPRESENTATIVES
    OTHER MAJOR SUBJECTS THE CNPD NATIONAL AUTHORITIES RESPONSIBLE FOR
    HAS IT BEEN SOLICITATED? DATA PROTECTION. THE CNPD
                                                           PART OF IT OF COURSE. HOW
    2021 was also marked by a return of DOES THIS CONTRIBUTE TO THE EDPB?
    "classic" themes, especially in connection
    with video surveillance and surveillance of the At this level too, 2021 was a year
    workplace. The people concerned charged. The CNPD participated in 200 meetings
    mainly solicited information on plenaries and other working groups.
    the exercise of their rights, especially the right of access Sometimes, as rapporteur or co-rapporteur,
    and the right to erasure. This type of request the CNPD got involved in the drafting of
    remains fairly stable from one year to the next: several draft guidelines and a
    about 600 per year, for 3 years. ensured regular follow-up of the files processed
                                                           at committee and group level. We
    YOU HAVE REVIEWED 33 also followed up on news
    DRAFT LAW OR REGULATIONS legislative proposals by the Commission
    GRAND-DUCAUX, 9 MORE THAN ONE European. We still encouraged
    YEAR BEFORE. WHAT WERE THE AND EASE OF USING ALL THE TOOLS
    MAIN THEMES ADDRESSED? of cooperation and coherence provided for by the
                                                           GDPR for coordinated actions and
    The themes for which the opinion of the implementation of a collaboration
    the CNPD has been approached have been very diverse. uniform and efficient cross-border. But
    This ranges from the fight against the Co- pandemic above all, having contributed to the establishment
    vid-19 up to the procedures parking cards for the adoption of the criteria
    for people with disabilities through the approval of certification bodies,
    VISUPOL (video surveillance for the purposes of certification criteria and a label
    certification), control of acquisition and certification, the CNPD was the
    possession of weapons, knowledge of one’s origins- first authority to submit criteria for
    gines in the context of an adoption or certification to the EDPB for opinion.
    medically assisted procreation with
    third-party donors… Other very THE CNPD WILL SOON CELEBRATE
    varied were also discussed, for ITS 20TH ANNIVERSARY. CHALLENGES
    which the CNPD has issued opinions: WHICH ARE ANNOUNCED DURING THE
    open data and reuse FOR YEARS TO COME LOOK MANY
    public sector information, control AND DIVERSIFIED. FOR THE CNPD, WHAT
    good repute, the communications code ARE THE MAIN CHALLENGES WHICH ARE
    on a European scale, the PROFILE file FOR THE PERIODS TO COME?
    headquarters of the Grand Ducal police, the organization
    tion of taxi services, the census One of the major challenges is the appearance and
    population, housing and the rapid development of new technologies
    buildings, or the internal regimes of the centers logies such as intelligence techniques
    prisons. artificial intelligence and algorithms. The problem is




                                             14
that the legislation does not evolve as quickly as precisely the human being who is at the heart of
technology. Fortunately, the GDPR has been this veritable tsunami of data and
designed to be technologically neutral: it regulates the processing of this data.
does not impede ac- For this, we do not need more rules, but
current and future, and it does not preclude the use of better rules. The EU has understood that we
of a specific technology. Another big one can more minimize the data more,
challenge consists in the elaboration of many but that it is essential to have rules and
new European initiatives such as supervising the major players. We will see
the Artificial Intelligence Act, the Data Governance how the future takes shape, we will see
Act (passed in May 2022), the Digital Services Act also if the new rules are user-friendly and
(adopted in July 2022), the Data Act or Digital easily applicable or too cumbersome. But
Markets Act (also passed in July 2022). we already know that the European Commission
The whole point is to integrate these new will acquire more powers compared to
initiatives in existing legislation while heterogeneous monitoring at national level
maintaining the same level of protection by the Member States. And it is also already
Datas. This is a major challenge! It must be very clear that the new digital policy of
however, to emphasize that all EU texts constitute an opportunity for a better
cited will be applicable without prejudice to the protection of personal data.
GDPR and other EU rules
THE CHALLENGES TO COME ARE MANY.
personal ter. It will be necessary to guarantee HOW DO YOU INTEND TO DEAL WITH IT?
consistent implementation of these texts
and ensure good coordination between The CNPD, like its European counterparts
national authorities to be designated by within the EDPB, monitor the technologies
EU members. new and emerging ones, as well as their im-
                                                      potential pact on fundamental rights and
THE GROWING NUMBER OF NEWS the daily life of citizens. The EDPB has already
REGULATIONS WORRIES YOU? developed guidance on recent developments
                                                      technological developments and the use of
We can indeed worry about the number of biometric data. He also developed
increasing number of new regulations that come from the guidelines on the use of the
frame the data and therefore be grafted onto facial recognition, the blockchain and
the GDPR, which nevertheless remains the reference for other technologies in its program of
terms of personal data. The work risk for the next two years.
is to observe at a certain moment a ■
weakening of the GDPR framework rather than a
reinforcement of the latter. It's clear that
the adoption of new acts and the application
texts will require a great effort of
coordination. The authorities will face
to new institutional challenges,
organizational and human resources.
We must never lose sight of the fact that it is




                                                             15
A YEAR IN FIGURES
3 A YEAR IN FIGURES




                                Sensitization,
                              guidance and advice



        33,618
        NOTICES REQUESTS FOR
                                                                INFORMATION
                                                                IN WRITING
        compared to 24 in 2020 compared to 655 in 2020




relating to bills or legislative proposals or The 3 main categories of requests
regulatory measures, including in particular concerning:
opinion on laws relating to: • the COVID-19 pandemic (tracing of
   • the fight against COVID-19; people, temperature taking, telecommuting,
   • to the video surveillance system at homeschooling, etc.);
       police purposes “Visupol”; • monitoring in the workplace;
   • to open data and reuse • the right of data subjects (right
       public sector information. of access, right to erasure, etc.).




                                                   18
Sensitization,
                                     guidance and advice



        2 13
        NEW TRAINING
        GUIDELINES AND
                                                       CONFERENCES
                                                       compared to 17 in 2020




• Guidelines for Number of events
  geolocation of vehicles raised awareness that the CNPD
  available to employees; organized or in which
• Guidelines for her speaking as a speaker.
  cookies and other tracers.




                                              19
3 A YEAR IN FIGURES




                                     Compliance
                                     and control



        512,333
        COMPLAINTS NOTIFICATIONS
                                                              OF VIOLATIONS
                                                              OF DATA
        compared to 485 in 2020 compared to 379 in 2020




Main reasons: Main cause: human error (62%).
   1. Failure to respect the right of access (26%);
                                                      Type of incident:
   2. Request for erasure or rectification
                                                        1. personal data sent to the wrong
      not respected (24%);
                                                           recipient (30%);
   3. Lawfulness of processing (14%).
                                                        2. hacking, hacking (17%);
                                                        3. disclosure of personal data
                                                           to the wrong person (12%).
                                                      More than half of incidents are detected in
                                                      the 5 days of their occurrence.




                                                 20
Compliance
                                                 and control



        7 18
        AUDITS VISITS
        OPEN ON SITE

                                                               compared to 8 in 2020




As part of the thematic campaign as part of the campaign
“transparency” in the thematic sector “COVID-19 controls” and
e-commerce and in the context of video surveillance.
verification of system compliance
of information set up within the framework
of the Covid epidemic.




                                                      21
3 A YEAR IN FIGURES




                                  Decisions




     €49,746,319,500
     DECISIONS TAKEN ON FINES
     THROUGH ADMINISTRATIVE TRAINING
     RESTRAINT




• 12 closed in the absence of breaches • €319,500 in cases at national level;
  retained • €746,000,000 in files in
• 12 with corrective measures within the framework of European cooperation.
• 25 with corrective measures and fines




                                             22
International EDPB
     (European Data Protection Board)



15,200
MEETINGS MEETINGS
GROUP PLENARIES
                         WORK




                    23
3 A YEAR IN FIGURES




                  International




    8 6
    NEW PROJECTS
    LINES for which the CNPD has
    DIRECTORS assumed the role of rapporteur
                                  or co-rapporteur




                       24
Resources
                  human



        53
        COLLABORATORS


        compared to 50 in 2020




37.5 years: average age
4.5 years: average seniority




                                   25
ACTIVITIES IN 2021
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




             28
ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK
OF THE GENERAL REGULATION ON
DATA PROTECTION

1 Raising public awareness

Informing citizens as well as data controllers and subcontractors
contractors is a priority for the CNPD in order to make them aware of the rights and duties
respective to each. It conducts awareness-raising actions, informs the public
through its website with regard to the protection of personal data and
organizes or participates in training and conferences.


Due to the pandemic, part of the courses On January 28, 2021, the CNPD organized the
training courses traditionally organized as a conference “Protection of data and
face-to-face has been transformed into a distance private life course in the face of the digitization of work” in
and other parts have been pre-recorded for virtual mode.
be disseminated on learning platforms
wise. After the opening address of the CNPD, Mr.
                                                    Jean-Jacques Rommes, President of the CES
JANUARY 28, 2021: 15TH DAY (Economic and Social Council) made a pre-
INTERNATIONALE DE LA sensation on “The impact of technological changes
                                                    logic in the world of work" and Mrs.
DATA PROTECTION
                                                    Isabelle Schlesser, Director of ADEM (Agency
The “International Day of Protection for the Development of Employment) is interven-
data", an initiative of the Council of nue on the theme "Job market, digitalization
Europe and the European Commission, is reading and personal data: challenges for
celebrated on January 28 of each year from ADEM”.
2006. The aim is to raise citizens' awareness of
the importance of protecting their data The presentations were followed by a round table
and respect for their freedoms, led by Mr. Jürgen Stoldt.
fundamental rights, in particular of their life
private. Data Privacy Day
                                                    As part of the Day of Protection
Conference “Data and data protection, the CNPD also participated
privacy in the face of the digitization of work” at the Data Privacy Day, organized by the Fondation




                                                           29
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                                                       WORKSHOPS
                                                       “DAPROLAB”

                                                       The “DaProLab” (Data Protection Laboratory)
                                                       are workshops offered by the
                                                       CNPD where a single specific subject defined at
                                                       advance is discussed with a limited number of
                                                       people and on which there is an exchange of
                                                       knowledge, ideas, interpretations and
                                                       perspectives.

                                                       The CNPD is not directly involved in the
                                                       discussion between participants but plays the role
                                                       moderator of these workshops which pursue
                                                       the objective of developing accountability
    Restena and the University of Luxembourg, with (accountability) among those responsible for
    a presentation entitled “Updates from the processing, flagship principle of the GDPR.
    CNPD: How COVID-19 shaped our work in
    2020”. In 2021, the CNPD organized a single DaProLab.
                                                       This is a workshop requested by the
    The Data Privacy Day is an annual event Service de Coordination de la Recherche et de
    for people interested in Pedagogical and Technological Innovation
    data protection and protection (SCRIPT), the Ministry of National Education,
    private life. The objective is to raise awareness and of Children and Youth and having focused on
    to promote best practices in data processing records.
    matter at European and international level.




                                          30
Like the years
                                                                                    previous ones, the authority
                                                                                    control has taken place
                                                                                    during training courses
                                                                                    general protection
                                                                                    data from
                                                                                    INAP (National Institute
                                                                                    administration
                                                                                    public), of the CSL
                                                                                    (Chamber of Employees) /
                                                                                    LLC (Luxembourg Life
TRAINING, CONFERENCES Long Learning Center), of
AND SEMINARS the CSSF (Commission de
                                                                                    Sector Monitoring


I
     he National Commission took part in Financial), and EST training
     meetings, conferences and seminars to raise awareness among (Higher School of
     public more aware of the issues of labor protection).
data.

The training sessions and conferences led by the
CNPD during the year were:

• “An introduction to GDPR for startups” as part of Luxinnovation's Fit 4 Start program;
• “The Power of Platforms and Markets”, round table within the framework of the RAID conference
  (Regulation of AI, Internet and Data);
• "The CNPD at the heart of customer relations: What rules should be respected in the digital age?" », webinar
  organized by the Chamber of Trades;
• “The CNPD and the supervisory authorities under the GDPR”, organized by the Chamber of Employees;
• “GDPR: How to implement it in my brokerage office” organized by APCAL
  (Professional Association of Insurance Brokers of Luxembourg);
• " Home Sweet Home ? », round table dedicated to the issue of telework in the context of
  Luxembourg Internet Days organized by LU-CIX;
• “What assessment can be drawn one year after the Schrems II ruling on international data transfers?. »
  organized by the HELP initiative of the Council of Europe in partnership with the Young Bar of
  Luxembourg, the Intangible Commission of the Luxembourg Bar, the International Union of
  lawyers;
• “The CNPD takes a stand” and “The latest news from the CNPD” during the PwC Cybersecurity &
  Privacy Days 2021;
• “Fortbildungsseminar zur DSGVO: Untersuchungen in Bezug auf die Funktion des Datenschutz-
  beauftragten: Erkenntnisse der luxemburgischen Aufsichtsbehörde” organized by the Private
  Universität im Fürstentum Liechtenstein;
• “Introduction to data protection”, organized by the ANELD (National Association of
  Luxembourg law students);
• Les Midis of the Luxembourg Association of Banking Lawyers (ALJB).




                                                   31
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




MARK LEMMER
Commissioner
Awareness
aims to enhance
and popularize the
guidance work
to give it back
understandable
by each




                          32
MR. LEMMER, AS the development of training with
COMMISSIONER, YOU ARE IN PARTICULAR involved in continuing education or through
IN CHARGE OF AWARENESS. ALL formats developed by the CNPD, as well as
FIRST, WHY DOES THE CNPD INSIST FORECASTING AND COLLABORATIVE ACTIVITIES
ON AWARENESS? with the world of research and innovation
                                                    in the field of data protection,
Marc Lemmer: The CNPD is an authority on new technologies such as
control which must ensure a balance between, for example, artificial intelligence…
raising awareness among citizens and various
actors processing personal data, and IN THIS CONTEXT, WHAT HAVE BEEN
verifying their activities through work YOUR GREATEST ACTIONS IN 2021?
investigation and, where applicable, the decision to
corrective measures. The protection of Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and the measures
data was redefined in 2018 by the GDPR. sanitary conditions in force, we carried out
From now on, there are fewer a priori checks, various actions, even if certain events
but more accountability of face-to-face actors had to be postponed and even if
so that they respect the regulations in certain resources allocated to conferences.
matter. It is therefore an approach based on the ences or training has been allocated to other
duration requiring priority support. We have thus carried out a workshop of
change management. work with a departmental and developed service
                                                    e-learning training activities. We
WHAT ARE THE INDIVIDUALS TARGETED BY also participated, on January 28, 2021, in the
YOUR AWARENESS WORK? 15th International Day for the Protection of
                                                    data, with the organization of a conference
There are two main targets. On the one hand, pre-recorded films on the subject of protection
citizens who have rights in relation to their data in the face of the digitization of work.
personal data and the processing of
these. They must know these rights, WHAT YOUR PRIORITIES WILL BE
rules in force, the guarantees that are in place for them IN THE YEARS TO COME?
data… On the other hand, there is the set of
data controllers and We have several priorities for 2022 and the
their subcontractors, both in the sector years to come: develop communication
public than private. Raising awareness aims to better external and further improve the visibility of the
make them aware of CNPD regulations with all targets; develop
ments and their obligations in this regard. more visual and graphic communication,
                                                    with suitable tools; continue the actions
HOW DO YOU PROCEED? companies previously towards the great pu-
                                                    blic and actors from the private sector and the sector
Advocacy work does not happen in public; develop training modules
first line, but follows a work in for young people (with a specific offer on
upstream. Guidance work carried out between data protection as part of the
others by the lawyers of the CNPD or on the scale of the first BTS specialized in cybersecurity
European. They develop the guidelines in place in Luxembourg); develop a new
for the different actors. Calf awareness training course on the protection of
aims to promote and popularize data work for service agents
guidance to make it understandable by the public (in collaboration with the CGPD and INAP);
everyone: citizens, public organizations renew introductory modules to the protection
(ministries, municipalities, etc.), SMEs and major data services for citizens and
private companies, associative world … Our finally develop the DaProLab workshops (Data
awareness-raising work follows 3 main axes: Protection Laboratory) face-to-face for
external communication and awareness raising, data protection professionals. ■




                                                           33
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                                                           of public administration (INAP) a new
                                                           protection initiation training course
                                                           personal data based on needs
                                                           civil servants. It is provided
                                                           to provide an e-learning module
                                                           introduction to the GDPR which will be available on
                                                           the INAP learning platform at the
                                                           rant of the year 2022 and which aims to
                                                           make all agents aware of the main
                                                           basic principles of data protection as well
                                                           that the development of training modules
                                                           more specific on certain chosen themes and
                                                           taught in blended learning mode or in the
                                                           DaProLab format. These modules will only be implemented
                                                           work only from 2023.
    Raising awareness among young students
    in IT security COLLABORATIONS WITH
    Since 2020, the CNPD has been associated with the development of RESEARCH ACTORS
    development of a new training AND INNOVATION (RDI) program
    in the field of cybersecurity in education
    higher vocational training at the BTS level, The economic diversification of the country through the
    offered by the Lycée Guillaume Kroll in Esch- research and innovation (RDI) is widely
    sur-Alzette. The CNPD contributed to the definition oriented towards the field of numerical sciences
    of the program in terms of risk aspects, cybersecurity, intelligence
    Protection of personal data. Artificial prices and, in general, digital technologies
    started at the start of the school year in the fall innovative tales.
    2021, following the obtaining in June 2021 of the accreditation
    tation of the BTS by the Ministry of Education The CNPD must therefore actively observe
    Superior and Research. Several colla- major political orientations, projects
    CNPD staff participate as national stakeholders and remain
    trainers both within the framework of the course open to collaborations deemed useful and necessary
    introduction to the GDPR only within the framework of the necessary for the development of products and
    thematic workshops. services respectful of the protection of data
                                                           born to personal and private life.
    New INAP training course
    Since 2021, the CNPD has been developing in cooperation The CNPD has been asked to participate in
    with the Commissariat of the following projects as a member of the committee
    Data Protection (CGPD) and the National Monitoring Institute or the project steering committee:




                                             34
• DECEPTICON: joint research project
  from the University of Luxembourg (SnT/IRiSC)
                                                    SPAMBEE: THE SOLUTION
  with and LIST and co-financed by the FNR; NATIONAL ANTI-SPAM AND
• DAPROCADE (DAta PROtection CApability ANTI-PHISHING
  DEtermination): LIST project co-financed by
  the FNR; Jointly developed by BEE SECURE,
• PaCT (Privacy policy Certification and Trans- the Cybersecurity Competence Center Luxem-
  tion): technology transfer project of the town (C3) and the CNPD, the SPAMBEE tool allows
  the University of Luxembourg co-financed by the users to analyze in a way
  FNR in its JUMP PoC program; anonymous e-mails suspected of spam or
• National Digital Twin: LIST project (Luxemphishing).
  borough Institute of Science and Technology) and
  co-financed by the FNR; Spam and phishing attacks
• Smart Schoul 2025: awareness project are a permanent stress for users
  of the University of Luxembourg (SnT) in and increase from year to year. In effect,
  collaboration with the SCRIPT of the Ministry of 130,0000 phishing attacks were reported
  National Education, Childhood and the Computer Incident Response Center
  Youth (MENJ), and the Lycée Edward Steichen Luxembourg (CIRCL) in 2020, which can be
  Clervaux (LESC) co-financed by the FNR. count 4% for Luxembourg.

In the context of the activities of the "Research SPAMBEE is a plug-in which, once installed,
Luxembourg COVID-19 Taskforce” the CNPD allows everyone, with a simple click, to provide
contributed to the evaluation work and to the competent authorities and experts of the
preparation for the implementation of a solution important information to fight against
national contact tracing system for cybercriminals. Email processing
mobile application, the Contact Tracing App, which feeds suspects into a database
ultimately did not see the light of day in Luxembourg. senders to ban.

Active participation in these projects allows This tool protects personal data
to the CNPD to remind the actors of the re- in accordance with the GDPR, because only the data
public research and innovation the relevant technical principles for the analysis of
important data protection principles e-mails are transferred, not the content, nor the
of a personal nature, such as the name of the recipient.
“Privacy by design and by default”, the limitation
tion of retention periods, limitation SPAMBEE is free and can be installed on
of the purposes of the processing, the determination of most browsers and email clients.
conditions of lawfulness or clarification of It is available in French, Luxembourgish,
links between controllers and sub- German and English.
contractors.




                                                           35
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                   2 Respond to requests for information
                              individuals and professionals

                   The National Commission received 618 requests the management of the COVID-19 pandemic remained,
                   information in writing in 2021, i.e. a slight 2021 was also marked by a
                   decrease compared to the previous year (-5%). return to other themes, in particular
                   Over the past three years, the number of links to CCTV and surveillance
                   requests remained constant with more than 600 in the workplace. The people concerned
                   per year. The entry into application of the GDPR had requested information on the exercise of
                   caused the exceptional peak in 2018. their rights, in particular the right of access and
                                                                       right to erasure.
                   About half requests for information per
                                  introduced in 2021 ema- The controllers also agreed-
                                  is born of natural persons, questioned on the conditions of lawfulness of the
     The CNPD informs and
                                  confirming a trend that has already been processed, in particular the collection methods
 advises individuals noted in 2020 while a third of the consent, on the application of major
    and the professionals of the requests originated from principles applicable to the implementation
   who wish to obtain private companies. The entities work on data processing and on
    public information, pertaining to the sector more general questions on the obligations
           legal, state and municipal, cont- in terms of appointing a delegate for the
         information about were clouded to regularly seek data protection and security from
the exercise of their rights the National Commission on information. Finally, the Commission
   or assistance with the wide range of issues. national body has regularly been asked about
  compliance of data processing characteristics
    their treatments to the While specific issues relating to the management of resources
                                   to the processing of human data, the financial sector and in the
  legislation relating to
                                   personal character concerning the field of education.
Data protection.
A dedicated service responds
       to questions from
  applicants received by
   email, phone or
           Postal mail.




                                                          36
EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF REQUESTS
                         INFORMATION IN WRITING
1200


1000


800


600


400

 200

     0
          2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021




                         EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF OPINIONS
35


30


25


20


15


10


 5

 0
         2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021




                                                  37
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                      3 Intervene in the legislative process

         The CNPD advises the
     Chamber of Deputies, In 2021, the Commission na- • Internal regimes of penitentiary centers
         the Government and national has issued 33 opinions on • Knowledge of its origins within the framework
      other institutions and bills or regulations of an adoption / procreation medically
        Grand-ducal public bodies, i.e. 9 more assisted with third-party donors
      through the relative notices only in 2020. • Parking card for people
    bills and disabilities
regulatory action or All notices may be
                                    consulted on the website In addition, two opinions on surveillance
administrative concerning
                                    of the CNPD at the address https:// in the workplace, hereinafter referred to as “notice
  data processing
                                    cnpd.public.lu/fr/publications/travail”, were adopted in 2021 (procedure for
 and presenting article L.261-1 paragraph (4) of the Labor Code)
                                    reports/index.html
     a particular risk to the recording of work sessions at
 regard to the privacy of The following topics have distance and the deployment of an application of
    persons concerned. in particular been addressed in the collection of aggregate productivity data.
                                    the opinions of the CNPD:
                                                                       Finally, 5 of the 33 CNPD opinions con- cern
                      • Fight against the COVID-19 pandemic the processing of personal data
                      • VISUPOL (Video surveillance for personal purposes in criminal matters, as well as in
                        police) of national security. These reviews are presented
                      • Open data and reuse of information in part II.9.b) dedicated specifically to
                        public sector role of the National Commission on the
                      • Control of the acquisition and control of the data processing carried out
                        weapons by law enforcement authorities or security authorities.
                      • National security integrity check.
                      • Electronic Communications Code
                        European Among the opinions issued in 2021, the CNPD
                      • Central file of the Grand-Ducal Police should highlight the following six opinions. THE
                      • General census of the population, other opinions can be consulted on the site
                        CNPD housing and buildings at https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/
                      • Organization of taxi services decisions-avis.html




                                                          38
MEASURES AGAINST
THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC

In 2021, the National Commission adopted eight
opinion on bills or legislative proposals having
regarding measures to combat the pandemic
Covid-19.

The CNPD notably issued observations
re :

• the processing of personal data
  as part of the screening program
  on a large scale and the program of
  vaccination ;
• the obligation for human rights institutions. She also recalled the importance
  Horeca sector to keep a register of their bearing of the principle of minimization under
  customers to facilitate contact tracing. from which personal data collected
  The relevant provisions of the bill should be limited to what is necessary for the
  however, were unsuccessful; regard to the purposes for which they are
• the introduction of the Covid Check regime and more processed.
  particularly the information given
  visible when using the OPEN DATA application
  CovidCheck.lu, the obligation to present AND REUSE
  identity document and the possibility of establishing an INFORMATION
  list of vaccinated and recovered persons. FROM THE PUBLIC SECTOR

In its opinions, the National Commission insisted The CNPD issued two opinions on the draft
on the fact that the legislative measures establishing law n°7643 on open data and the
rant of data processing for the re-use of public sector information
staff should be clear and precise which is intended to transpose into national law
and that their application should be predictable Directive (EU) 2019/1024 of the European Parliament
for litigants, in accordance with the European and Council of June 20, 2019
case law of the Court of Justice of the Union concerning open data and the
European Union and the European Court of Reuse of Public Sector Information




                                                            39
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    (recast) as well as to repeal and replace Finally, with a view to increased access to
    the amended law of 4 December 2007 on public sector information and a
    reuse of public sector information. future national strategy for the promotion
                                                        of Open data in Luxembourg, the CNPD
    Emphasizing its commitment to the public interest underlined the importance of the concept of
    what does public access to documents mean by “openness by design and by
    officials, the National Commission formulated default "meaning that the holders of
    observations aimed at arriving at the defined public data should design
    tion of a legal framework where the reuse of said data with a view to making
    public data and the protection of life these reusable and in particular to design
    privacy and personal data - data sets allowing the dissociation
    nel find a balance when a document of personal data at the
    containing personal data at the time of making it available to the public by
    is likely to be communicated. through, in particular, anonymization and
                                                        application of the principle of minimization.
    The CNPD questioned the articulation
    of the bill with the rules for access to the COMMUNICATIONS CODE
    documents containing EUROPEAN ELECTRONIC data
    personal and pointed to the risk of
    disclosure of personal data The National Commission has issued an opinion
    or the invasion of the privacy of individuals relating to Bill No. 7632, the purpose of which is
    when sectoral legislation to transpose Directive (EU) 2018/1972
    providing for access to documents is silent on the European Parliament and of the Council of
    subject of the reuse of personal data 11 December 2018 establishing the code of
    staff. European electronic communications.

    The National Commission recalled that the The CNPD considered it necessary to modify the
    entities wishing to reuse information definition of communications services
    of the public sector including electronic data in the amended law of 30
    personal data remain subject to the May 2005 provisions concerning the protection of life
    in the field of data protection to privacy in the communications sector
    personal nature and must therefore be electronic in order to integrate the operators
    that their data processing complies with the OTP "over the top players" offering services
    GDPR and other legislative and interpersonal communications provisions not
    regulations. based on numbering.




                                          40
This modification of the definition is required CONTROL PROCEDURES
in order to ensure a compliant transposition of HONORABILITY
Directive (EU) 2018/1972. She is moreover
necessary in order to guarantee respect for the rights The CNPD has issued an opinion on the bill
fundamentals, such as the directive and project no. 7691 relating to control procedures
laws provide for it. of good repute. This bill aims to
                                                     specify the various “control” procedures
The CNPD also suggested specifying in good repute” provided for in several texts
detail the scenarios in which the law falling within the competence of the Minister of
the obligations of companies Justice.
(which provide a network or service of
electronic communications) in First of all, the National Commission has
facilitation of the lawful interception of Regretted that the bill does not propose
communications by the competent authorities common definition of the concept of good repute nor
and provision of technical data establishes, for the three categories of surveys
to the authorities. of good repute targeted by the bill, a framework
                                                     unified legal framework with regard to actors
Furthermore, the CNPD has offered to coordinate who conducts such investigations and with regard to
the procedures of the ILR (Luxembourg Institute concerns the methods of transmission of
of Regulation) on the one hand and the CNPD on the other information resulting from these.
which may lead to administrative sanctions
as well as to give details on the cooperation The CNPD thus considered that it would be preferable
between the two institutions, which is provided for by the rule that administrative inquiries be
law Project. carried out by one and the same authority and
                                                     that they should be entrusted to an authori-
Finally, the CNPD suggested putting the Public Ministry under repressive control, and not
adequacy the bill and law with the amended law one or more administration(s). Thus, she considers
of May 30, 2005 concerning the protection of the that the authors of the bill should opt
privacy in the communications sector for a system that would be based on the communication
electronic information regarding questions cation of a detailed opinion of the public prosecutor
the localization of emergency calls, of general status in order to assess the good repute of
detailed invoices and the identification of the persons concerned.
calling line.
                                                     Furthermore, the CNPD recalled that the
                                                     processing of personal data




                                                             41
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    relating to criminal convictions and national data protection and
    breaches or related security measures general data protection regime, and
    should comply with the provisions of article those of the amended law of 10 July 2011 on
    10 of the GDPR and those relating to STATEC organization categories.
    specific data should
    comply with article 9 of the GDPR. Regarding the actors involved
                                                           in the census, the Commission
    Finally, she also recalled that the national treatments recommended for a better
    of data covered by the bill should readability and comprehension of the text advised, that
    complied with the main principles referred to in the article be expressly specified in the draft
    5, paragraph (1) GDPR. For an analysis of the Grand-Ducal regulation that STATEC has the
    concrete application of each of these principles by quality of data controller, and
    relation to the legal provisions of the project to clarify the role of the municipalities within the framework of the
    law, it is referred to the opinion of the Census Commission.
    national.
                                                           As for the collection of special categories
    GENERAL CENSUS of data, the CNPD recalled that such
    OF THE POPULATION data processing was subject to
                                                           stricter requirements as well as protection
    The CNPD has issued an opinion on the specific draft regulation under Article 9 of the GDPR.
    Grand-Ducal ment prescribing a census It also noted that it would be appropriate to
    general population, housing and to comply, where applicable, with the provisions
    buildings of the Grand Duchy. This project had for articles 64 and 65 of the law of August 1, 2018
    object the organization of the aforementioned general census in that they provide for measures
    population, housing and buildings, appropriate and specific for safeguarding
    which began on November 8, 2021. fundamental rights and the interests of the
                                                           concerned person.
    In this opinion, the National Commission made
    part of its questions regarding compliance Regarding the collection of the identification number
    of the amended law of July 10, 2011 on the organization, the CNPD considered that its use,
    nization of STATEC in relation to the rules applied as provided for in the draft regulation
    cables in terms of data protection, and Grand-Ducal should be governed by a law,
    of its observations as to the link between because such processing was not provided for by law
    the provisions of chapter 2 of the amended law of August 1 of June 19, 2013 relating to the identification
    2018 on the organization of the Commission for natural persons. Furthermore, she has




                                             42
also pointed out that details as to its origins and affecting the most
to the link between the "census key" and the most intimate of people's private lives
national identification number of the person concerned.
identified would deserve to be brought then
that both the “census key” and the The National Commission observed
national identification number have as their object the legal uncertainty linked to the imprecision of the
to merge the data collected in the terms employed in the bill and estimated
census framework. that the text would not meet the requirements of
                                                   clarity, precision and predictability to which
As for access to administrative registers, the legal text must respond, in accordance with the
National Commission noted that the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union
access to them should be more specific. European Union and the European Court of
                                                   human rights. Similarly, the opinion of the CNPD
Finally, the CNPD reiterated the need to stress the need to clearly define the role
respect the principles of integrity and of the various stakeholders.
confidentiality, retention limitation
data as well as the principles of legality, Finally, the National Commission insisted
of loyalty and transparency vis-à-vis the importance of ensuring the integrity and confi- dentiality
persons concerned. dentiality of the data insofar as
                                                   unauthorized access to data, leaks of
ACCESS TO KNOWLEDGE undesired data or modifications
OF ITS ORIGINS of data are likely to cause a
                                                   serious harm to the persons concerned.
The National Commission issued an opinion
relating to bill no. 7674 on
organization of access to knowledge
of his origins in the context of an adoption
or medically assisted procreation
with third-party donors. Not having been entered
directly by the authors of the draft
law, the CNPD self-referral took place
as part of the many treatments of
personal data, among others
of health data, carried out for the purposes of
the exercise of access to knowledge




                                                          43
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                                4 Guiding private and public actors

 Sector players
    private and public should
                                                                                           The recommendations have been updated on
    adopt a conduct COLLECTS the CNPD1 website on several occasions
preventive and responsible DATA taking into account the evolution of the texts
    with regard to legal PERSONAL data in connection with the pandemic.
    of a personal nature IN THE CONTEXT
         that they are dealing with. OF CORONAVIRUS These were supplemented in 2021 by a
      guide and direct them (COVID-19) frequently asked questions (FAQ) on the protection of
     in this process data in the context of the CovidCheck (such as
        is one of the roles of Personal Data provided for by the amended law of July 17, 2020
     the supervisory authority. personnel, in particular health, on measures to combat the pandemic
   This role is assumed by are at the heart of the problems- Covid-19). She answers questions
     the CNPD by developing frequently asked questions related to the health crisis, in particular concerning
                                                       of COVID-19. From the start of the use of the CovidCheck.lu application and
   recommendations
                                                       pandemic, the CNPD has published descriptions of what the employer can do in the
     or guidance on
                                                       recommendations to guide the implementation of the CovidCheck on the
    themes for
                                                       professionals in the for- work place.
        a good target audience
                                                       further to their activities and for
                 specific. answer the questions of the GUIDELINES
                                                       sound about their rights. IN TERMS OF
                                                                                           GEOLOCATION
                                In its guidance, the CNPD notably reminded
                                here are a few rules concerning: VEHICLES EARTHED
                                                                                           DISPOSITION OF EMPLOYEES
                                • employers' duty of safety;
                                • the employee/agent security obligation; Vehicle tracking systems
                                • the processing of data by employees made available to employees allows
                                  workers: employers to follow the movements of
                                  - the temperature readings at the entrance of their employees in time and space.
                                     premises ; Such systems are now widely
                                  - carrying out tests by the employer and widespread both in companies and
                                     health status questionnaires; in public organizations often
                                • the requests and recommendations of the to be able to manage the fleet of vehicles
                                  health authorities. utilities and organization optimization


1
    https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/actualites/national/2020/03/coronavirus.html



                                                                              44
to comply with the rules currently applied
                                                     cables, as they appear from the legislation
                                                     and existing case law.

                                                     Operating a website requires
                                                     often the use of cookies
                                                     (commonly called “cookies”) or
                                                     other similar technologies.

                                                     These can be specific to the website or
                                                     well be deposited/read by third parties (platforms
                                                     video, social plugins, advertising networks,
                                                     analytical needs, etc.) on the terminal of
                                                     the user in the context of services used by
                                                     website.
work. However, as the use
of these devices involves processing These cookies and similar technologies may
personal data, it includes being used in order to pursue the purposes
privacy risks for employees. Thus, the more or less intrusive in the privacy of
geolocation exposes employees to Internet risk, such as remembering the
to be followed in real time by their employer choice of language of a user or follow
outside working hours, or even to his internet browsing behavior.
risk that the geolocation system is
used by the employer for other purposes In its guidelines, the CNPD analyzes the
than those for which it was installed. legal background and comments
                                                     on essential cookies (for which there is no
Without claiming to be exhaustive, the CNPD
                                                     no obligation of consent) and on the
wishes to recall in these guidelines
                                                     non-essential cookies (for which there is a
some of the applicable principles and obligations
                                                     consent requirement). They introduce
in terms of geolocation of employees at the
                                                     also the notion of "dark patterns" in
with regard to the applicable legislation on
                                                     the context of obtaining the consent of
protection of personal data.
                                                     users. Additionally, the guidelines
                                                     contain many examples of good
PRACTICAL GUIDELINES.
MATTER OF COOKIES AND
OTHER TRACERS

These guidelines are intended to help
website or application operators




                                                             45
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




5 Appointment of delegates
          data protection
Since the entry into force of the GDPR,
controllers and
subcontractors must communicate to the
CNPD the contact details of the delegate to the
data protection (DPD, or DPO of
English “Data Protection Officer”) that they
have, where appropriate, appointed.



E
       n 2021, 120 data controllers
       communicated the contact details of their
       DPO at the National Commission. Since
May 25, 2018, 1329 data controllers
took this step.

In total, 1011 natural or legal persons
have been declared to the CNPD, including 164 their nature, their scope and/or their
in 2021. purposes, require regular monitoring and
                                                            large-scale systematic
To facilitate the communication of this information to the persons concerned;
ments, the CNPD has put a form online, as well as • the basic activities of the person in charge of the
that a dedicated space on its site that responds to the processing or of the subcontractor consist
frequently asked questions. into a large-scale treatment of
                                                            special categories of data
As a reminder, the designation of a DPO is referred to in Article 9 or personal data
mandatory in three situations: personnel relating to convictions
                                                            criminal offenses and offenses referred to in
• the processing is carried out by an authority Article 10.
  authority or a public body, with the exception
  tion of the courts acting in the exercise Unless it is obvious that a body
  their jurisdictional function; is not required to appoint a DPO, the CNPD
• the basic activities of the head of recommends to always document the analysis
  processing or processor consist of internally carried out in order to determine whether, yes or
  processing operations which, because of not, it is necessary to appoint a DPO.




                                                     46
NATURAL OR LEGAL PERSONS
  DECLARED TO THE CNPD
  AS DPO


1000 1000


800 800


600 600


400 400


 200 200


  0 0
       2018 2019 2020 2021 2018 2019 2020 2021




                          DATA CONTROLLERS WHO
                        HAVE COMMUNICATED THE CONTACT DETAILS
                                    FROM THEIR DPO TO THE CNPD




                                   47
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                  ALAIN HERRMANN
                  Commissioner
                  …we do
                  figure of pioneers.




             48
MR HERRMANN, YOU HAVE established a certification system has been
GDPR CERTIFICATION AMONG YOURS designed to minimize the risk of use
VARIOUS ATTRIBUTIONS. CAN YOU misuse his personal data.
EXPLAIN WHAT IS IT? It's reassuring.

Alain Herrmann: The GDPR – General Regulations THE CNPD IS THE FIRST AUTHORITY
on Data Protection – entered INTO THE EUROPEAN UNION AT
force in the European Union in 2018. This HAVE DEVELOPED ITS OWN CRITERIA
regulation gives, among other things, the possibility of CERTIFICATION. CAN YOU
to adopt certification schemes. WE BRIEFLY EXPLAIN THE
Luxembourg acted as a European pioneer: A PROCESS THAT ENABLED THE CNPD
we are currently the only country in AND IN LUXEMBOURG TO BECOME
the European Union to have such a PIONEERS IN THIS MATTER?
certification. It is a tool, based on
demanding criteria, allowing us to meet Effectively, we are pioneers.
to the needs of professionals who want But also guinea pigs, if I may say so. When the
demonstrate to their business partners, GDPR came into force, leaving the possibility
to their customers… that they comply with the GDPR in adopting certification schemes, we
all their processing operations we immediately understood the interest of putting
data. in place such certification. The process
                                                     was long and difficult because we were leaving
WHAT IS THE BENEFIT FOR A COMPANY of a blank page? We therefore had to develop
TO HAVE SUCH CERTIFICATION? lop the certification, determine the criteria
                                                     of attribution… in compliance with the GDPR while
The interest is multiple, knowing however that this favors a high level of requirement. We
is not a company as such which also had to act in perfect intelligence
is certified, but the processing of data with other European authorities for
that she performs. That being said, if a develop a serious, reliable integrated system
company has such certification, and qualitative. Eventually we received a
this demonstrates that it values the favorable European opinion. It was February 2
to the processing of the data it possesses and 2022.
that it complies with the GDPR. Mechanisms
GDPR certification can also be THE CNPD AS A PIONEER, YOUR
useful in commercial relations between EXPERIENCE MUST BE USEFUL AT LEVEL
companies, for example between the EUROPEAN manager. HOW DO YOU CONTRIBUTE
of the processing and its subcontractor. Finally, does EUROPEAN WORK IN THIS MATTER?
to have this certification reinforces a
brand image and can even constitute a The CNPD has established strict criteria
sort of competitive advantage. The certification allowing our certification to have a high
allows the company that it has obtained its level of data protection and quality.
stand out in their industry. As the first European country to have
                                                     passed national certification, we have
AND WHAT ARE THE ADVANTAGES FOR DEVELOPING KNOWLEDGE, EXPERIENCE
THE CITIZENS ? and a know-how that we gladly put
                                                     available to our European partners.
It can be summed up in one word: trust. If necessary, we are ready to study
When a citizen is in contact with a the possibility of extending the innovative scheme
company benefiting from this certification, which we have developed at committee level
this citizen knows that his data is processed European and, moreover, we are active in
in compliance with the GDPR. For the citizen, level of the European board for the protection of
it is a real guarantee knowing that the data. ■




                                                            49
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                      6 Support compliance

        The general regulations
          on the protection of CERTIFICATIONS
           data entered
several application tools The CNPD continued its work
   voluntary to allow projects started in 2018 to
    organizations to manage set up and manage the
                                     certification-related activities
         their compliance and
                                     tion as proposed
demonstrate that they respect
                                     in the GDPR. These instruments
      legislation: analyzes can be used for
   impact on protection data controllers
 data, certifications, and subcontractors of elements
        codes of conduct or to demonstrate that their
supervision of transfers of processing operations res-
 international data. comply with the regulations.

                      The establishment of certification mechanisms The many exchanges between the CNPD and the
                      volunteers can promote transparency and enterprise during the preparedness phase
                      compliance with the GDPR and allow people to the GDPR, have demonstrated that they have a
                      concerned to better assess the level of particular interest in certification according to the
                      data protection offered by the products, regulation.
                      actors' services, processes or systems
                      private and public. Being convinced of the added value that the
                                                                         certification can offer, the CNPD has taken an
                      The framework for the practical application of the particularly proactive certificate is developing
                      tion is developed in consultation with the loppants, together with the companies
                      other control authorities at the level of the audit EDPB, a certification reference system based on
                      to ensure consistency but also the international conformity assessment framework
                      at the national level, in collaboration with the ISAE (International Standard on Assurance
                      interested private sector actors. Commitments).




                                                            50
Thus, the CNPD proposed the scheme called Procedure for the approval of organizations
"GDPR-CARPA" which has been subject to a certification
first public consultation in June 2018.
After integrating returns until the end of 2020, the aim of the accreditation is to certify with
received at national and European level, in the necessary authority the skills of the
in particular through exchanges with other certification bodies, which allows
European supervisory authorities within the to build confidence in the mechanism of
EDPB, a final consultation was carried out certification.
early 2021.
                                                     The CNPD has already received 2 applications from
The CNPD has oriented its work according to two outlets wishing to receive this approval
pillars: as a certification body in Luxem-
                                                     village (under the approval criteria
• The first pillar concerns the CARPA criteria of the CNPD). The CNPD is in the process of analyzing
  certification to which a lyse these applications in the preliminary phase and
  organization that wants some of its employees to be able to start accreditation audits
  data processing is certified; in 2022.
• The second pillar concerns the criteria
  of accreditation to which a Rapporteur must respond at European level
  organization wishing to act as
  as a certification body. In recent years, the CNPD was
                                                     rapporteur on the guidance concerning
In this context, it has contributed as certification criteria at the EDPB level.
lead-rapporteur at the European Committee for
Data Protection (EDPB) to: In 2021, this was an addendum to the
                                                     certification guidelines 1/2018
• adoption of certification criteria and identification of certification criteria
• the adoption of a European label for the in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of the GDPR.
  certification.
                                                     The purpose of this additional guidance
The CNPD is the first protection authority was to refine the elements of the guidelines
data in Europe to submit its 1/2018 in order to help:
certification criteria to the EDPB for opinion in
October 2021 and, once these criteria are adopted, the • stakeholders involved in the
Luxembourg will be the first country to allow the drafting of certification criteria in the
certification according to GDPR criteria. GDPR certification framework and;




                                                            51
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    • supervisory authorities and the EDPB to identify and minimize protection risks
      to be able to provide data assessments of new projects involving
      consistent in the context of the approval of data processing processes to
      certification criteria (both for personal character.
      national systems than for quality labels
      EU data protection). It must contribute to the accountability approach.
                                                                                      bilization advocated by the GDPR, in particular
    CODES OF CONDUCT via the concepts of data protection
                                                                                      by design and data protection
    Codes of conduct are default tools (“Privacy by design”, “Privacy by
    responsibility that challenges default”) as it helps those responsible
    establish specific rules in terms of treatment sands to identify and treat the
    data protection for certain problems at an early stage and that it helps
    categories of controllers bue to demonstrate their compliance.
    and subcontractors.
                                                                                      If an organization has identified treatments of
    They can constitute an instrument of personal data likely to generate
    useful and effective vernance by providing high risks to rights and freedoms
    a detailed description of all the persons concerned, he must carry out, for
    the most appropriate behaviors and covering each of these treatments, a DPIA.
    best practices in a given sector.
                                                                                      The CNPD has drawn up a list of types of opera-
    Professional associations or processing organizations for which it considers
    organizations representing a professional sector
                                                                                      that a DPIA is mandatory in all cases2.
    given can develop codes to help
    companies in this sector to respect the
                                                                                      If, following this risk analysis, it results
    GDPR effectively.
                                                                                      that the level of residual risk remains high,
                                                                                      the organization must consult the
    In 2021, the CNPD received a code initiative
                                                                                      CNPD who will give an opinion on the processing
    of conduct that it is analyzing.
                                                                                      envisaged and the associated risks.

    RELATIVE IMPACT ASSESSMENT In this case, the treatment cannot be
    FOR THE PROTECTION OF implemented before receipt of the notice of
    DATA (AIPD) the CNPD, and, where applicable, the implementation
                                                                                      additional measures. In 2021,
    A AIPD or DPIA in English (“Data Protection only a request for prior notice has
    Impact Assessment”) is a tool that helps to be submitted to the CNPD. This figure very little




    2
        The list can be consulted on the CNPD website: https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/professionnels/obligations/AIPD.html



                                                               52
high in comparison with those of the countries specific guarantees for the transfer between
border indicates that the use of DPIA public authorities or bodies).
doesn't seem to be widespread yet
among established data controllers Publication of new clauses
in Luxembourg. Commission model contracts
                                                  european

                                                  The European Commission published on June 4
                                                  2021 new standard contractual clauses
                                                  (CCT) intended to regulate transfers of
                                                  data of data controllers or
                                                  EU/EEA subcontractors (subject to GDPR)
                                                  to controllers or subcontractors
                                                  processors established outside the EU/EEA (and not
                                                  subject to GDPR).

                                                  The new CCTs will replace the old ones
                                                  which were adopted on the basis of Directive
                                                  95/46 on data protection.

                                                  Previous versions of CCTs had to be
TRANSFERS updates to bring them into compliance
INTERNATIONAL with GDPR requirements, as well as for
PERSONAL DATA take into account the “Schrems II” judgment of the
                                                  CJEU, and better reflect the generalized appeal
Personal data may be subject to further processing operations more
move freely from Luxembourg to complexes often involving multiple
within the European Economic Area (EEA), importers and exporters of data.
as long as the general principles of the GDPR are
respected. Transfers of data outside In particular, the new CCTs provide for
of the EU and the EEA are possible, provided more specific guarantees in the event that the
to ensure a level of data protection laws of the country of destination have an impact
sufficient and appropriate. These transfers must respect the clauses, in particular in the event of
be supervised using different tools of binding requests from the
legal (contractual clauses, public authority rules for the disclosure of
Binding Corporate Code (BCR), Personal Data Codes.
conduct, certification mechanisms or




                                                         53
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    They can be used by companies, Adoption of an adequacy decision
    Luxembourg public bodies and associations with South Korea
    geoises who intend to transfer certain dona-
    data they have to process to countries On December 17, 2021, the European Commission
    third parties (outside the EU/EEA). European established by means of a decision
                                                        than the Republic of Korea
    However, a transition period is provided to ensure an adequate level of protection in terms of
    to be able to continue to invoke the old data protection rules
    standard contractual clauses adopted on a personal basis, in accordance with the general regulations
    of Directive 95/46 on the protection of data- on data protection.
    born, until the end of 2022.
                                                        Note that this adequacy decision does not
    Adoption by the European Commission does not however apply for transfers of
    two decisions relating to the adequacy of personal data in terms of
    the level of credit data protection to South Korean entities subject to
    relating to the United Kingdom to the supervision of the Services Commission
                                                        financial, nor for the transfer of data
    On June 28, 2021, the European Commission towards religious organizations or parties
    found through two political decisions.
    of adequacy that the United Kingdom ensures a
    adequate level of protection in terms of In these cases, the general regime applicable
    protection of personal data, data transfers to third countries
    in accordance with the general regulation on not benefiting from an adequate level in
    data protection and the data protection directive will continue
    data protection in criminal matters to apply.
    as well as national security.
                                                        The CNPD contributes to the activities of the Committee
    Such a decision means that the pro- European Data Protection Regime (EDPB).
    protection of personal data in the United Kingdom
    Uni offers “essentially balanced” guarantees In this respect, the Luxembourg authority has been
    valid" to those of the European Union and that involved in the evaluation of this decision
    transfers of personal data of adequacy of the European Commission in
    to the United Kingdom will again be able to examine the work carried out by the latter and
    carried out as if it were a transfer to while assessing the impact of the free movement of
    within the European Economic Area. personal data between the Union




                                          54
European Union and South Korea on the guarantees created by a group of companies which defines its
and the degree of protection conferred by the two policies on transfers of gifts-
savings to European citizens. born personal. This charter should
                                                    be binding and respected by all
On September 24, 2021, the EDPB adopted its group entities, regardless of their country
opinion on the suitability decision, which is the location, as well as by all their em-
third to have been adopted under the aegis of the ployés.
GDPR after that of Japan and the United Kingdom.
                                                    In addition, it must give people
The binding corporate rules concerned (customers, suppliers and/or em-
                                                    ployés) enforceable rights with respect to
Binding Corporate Rules (regarding the processing of their data to
English “Binding Corporate Rules” or “BCR”) personal character.
provide a level of protection
sufficient for the data transferred within In 2021, the CNPD processed files concerning
of a group of companies both within and outside the Binding Corporate Rules
outside the European Economic Area. (BCRs, article 47 of the GDPR) including 8 as
This appropriate safeguard lends itself primarily to principal authority (i.e. for
multinational enterprise groups involving multinational enterprises whose establishment
implement a large number of main transfers in the European Union is located at the
international data. Luxembourg), 2 as secondary authority
                                                    (“co-reviewer”) (i.e. in support of
The BCRs constitute a “charter of the pro- the principal supervisory authority) and several
protection of personal data” drawn up as the authority concerned.




                                                           55
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                  THIERRY LALLEMANG
                  Commissioner
                  …we treat
                  every claim
                  which comes to us.




             56
THE CNPD RECEIVES SEVERAL HUNDREDS WHEN AN AMICABLE SOLUTION
CLAIMS EACH YEAR. IS NOT POSSIBLE, THE CNPD OPENS
WHAT ARE THE GROUNDS INVOKED? INVESTIGATION. WHAT IS THE PROCESS?

Thierry Lallemang: Complaints are The opening of an investigation is a procedure
filed by citizens, Internet users or heavy that requires resources and
associations representing citizens who time. He is one of the commissioners of the CNPD
believe that their rights to the protection of who proposes the opening of an investigation when
data have not been complied with or constraining measures need to be considered
that there is non-compliance with and coercive regulations. We still have to make a distinction
vigor. Another reason concerns the right between specifically Luxembourg surveys.
citizens’ access to data from Concerbourg and data of a European nature. THE
nant. The right to erasure (“right to be forgotten”) and Luxembourg being the European headquarters of
the right of rectification are also reasons taken on an international scale, around 30%
recurring. Complaints can also complaints that we receive are the fact
concern bad practices which are the responsibility of non-residents of Luxembourg. In this case,
made by private sector companies or organi- the procedure is even more complicated because,
public sector organizations or administrations. even if the CNPD plays the role of leader, we
                                                     must reach a consensus with all the
INTRODUCED IN 2018, THE GDPR HAS RELEVANT AUTHORITIES. If we don't get
HAD AN INFLUENCE ON THE NUMBER of consensus, it is up to the EDPB (European Data
COMPLAINTS? Protection Board”) to arbitrate and provide
                                                     decision that we apply.
We see an increase in
number of complaints since the IF AN AMICABLE RESOLUTION IS NOT REACHED
GDPR. In 2017, we recorded FOUND, WHAT ARE THE “WEAPONS”
200 complaints; in 2018, the year the CNPD was introduced?
GDPR, we totaled 450 complaints;
for 2 or 3 years, we have been on This ranges from a call to order to a fine administered
annual average of around 520 complaints. tive, passing through a warning, a
The introduction of the GDPR has had an impact on the suspension or temporary prohibition of the
the number of complaints. But, due to data processing. It is also possible
awareness-raising campaigns carried out no- to consider the definitive prohibition of treatment
ment by the CNPD, citizens are better data. Thanks to the GDPR, our new
  informed. This is a good thing, but this "weapons" is the administrative fine which cannot
also leads to an increase in the number of complaints applied only to companies in the sector
tations. private. The administrations (State, ministries,
                                                     municipalities…) are exempt from administrative fines.
WHAT IS THE PROCEDURE WHEN
THE CNPD RECEIVES A COMPLAINT? PUBLISH THE RESULTS OF
                                                     YOUR INVESTIGATIONS OR SANCTIONS
I emphasize that we treat each APPLIED?
complaint that reaches us. First of all,
we analyze the facts. We see if the These results are published on our website
complaint is founded and admissible or not. anonymously: we do not quote the
We also study the importance of the violation companies, administrations… on which
of the law and determine whether the complaint we have investigated or to which we have
concerns a single person or whether it can impose a fine. However, it is expected that
have an impact on a large number of people we can publish
of citizens. In a first step, we nominative. But that can only be done after
always try to solve the problem after exhaustion of all remedies and without bearing
amicably. prejudice to the named company. ■




                                                            57
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




             58
When a manager of
                                                                                           treatment not responding
                                                                                           to the exercise of a right such
                                                                                           as conferred by the GDPR
                                                                                           or when the person
                                                                                           concerned believes that a
                                                                                           data processing
                                                                                           is carried out in a way
                                                                                           unlawful, it may introduce
                                                                                           a complaint to
                                                                                           of the CNPD. Indeed, the
                                                                                           CNPD has, within the framework
                                                                                           of its missions, the
                                                                                           duty to instruct
                                                                                           complaints from
7 Dealing with complaints from citizens concerned persons.



Firstly, the CNPD examines whether In addition, depending on the characteristics
the complaint is admissible, for example specific to each complaint, the CNPD may
verifying whether the facts alleged by the claimant decide to investigate or not to investigate a
relating to the processing of data of a complaint nature, taking into account in particular
personnel are likely to constitute or the degree of seriousness of the alleged facts, the
not a violation of the applicable law in alleged violation, of the degree of impact on the
matters of data protection. fundamental rights and freedoms, the degree of
                                                     priority in relation to the number of complaints
If the complaint is admissible, the and available resources.
CNPD contacts the person in charge of the
treatment and asks him to take a position NATIONAL COMPLAINTS
and, where applicable, to comply AND EUROPEAN
and/or to respect the rights of persons
concerned. In 2021, the CNPD received a total of 512
                                                     complaints:
As part of the management of "complaints"
and when disputed data processing is • 360 complaints were lodged
actually contrary to the law, the CNPD directly with the CNPD;
endeavors, as a first step, to remedy this • 152 complaints were handled via the
without having to initiate a European Cooperation System (IMI) procedure. In
formal request in accordance with articles 37 to effect, the CNPD is competent to receive
41 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of complaints from others
of the National Commission for the protection European supervisory authorities when
of the data and the general regime on the protection of the data controllers have their headquarters
data. in Luxembourg (lead authority).




                                                            59
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                    THE INFORMATION SYSTEM
                    OF THE INTERNAL MARKET (IMI)


I
      he IMI system is the European Union's IT platform which guarantees the correct
      implementation of cooperation between supervisory authorities for a wide range of
      regulations. This tool has also been used for the GDPR since May 25, 2018
as provided by the GDPR. The supervisory authorities of the Member States cooperate closely
to ensure uniform protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the protection of
data across the EU.

Now more than ever, mutual assistance and coordinated decision-making in
cross-border data protection cases are of utmost importance.

In addition, the European Data Protection Board issues opinions and takes decisions
binding when national data protection authorities have positions
different in a cross-border case.

Using the IMI system, the control authorities can in particular:

• determine which is the lead supervisory authority in a cross-border dispute;
• cooperate to reach a settlement of cross-border disputes;
• request and provide assistance to supervisory authorities in other Member States;
• organize joint operations involving the supervisory authorities of several States
  members ;
• consult the European Data Protection Board for an opinion or a decision
  binding.




                                                60
Compared to the previous year, this is a
             EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER increase of 27 complaints. From
                                                             the entry into force of the GDPR in 2018, the CNPD
             COMPLAINTS handles an average of 518 complaints per year.

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

 0
      2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021




             REASONS FOR COMPLAINTS
                                  Refusal to access data (26%)
                                  Request for erasure or rectification not complied with (24%)
                                  Lawfulness of processing (14%)
                                  Opposition to prospecting or complaints against spam (8%)
                                  Data Breach (8%)
                                  CCTV (5%)
                                  RNPP consultation (5%)
                                  Right to information (4%)
                                  Security measure (1%)
                                  Image rights (1%)
                                  Cookies (1%)
                                  Talk time (1%)
                                  Others (2%)




                                                 61
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    More than a quarter of complaints (26%) • the publication of personal data
    concerns the non-respect of the right of access by staff online (e.g. on a social network);
    the controllers. In some • provisions relating to the protection of
    cases, the latter refused to the given persons mentioned in conditions
    concerned to access their data, ignored general relating to businesses or
    their queries or did not give them enough online services;
    of information in relation to information • the retention period of the data
    information to be communicated when exercising a right collected;
    access. • the lawfulness of processing the files of the
                                                             staff ;
    Requests for erasure or rectification • creation of directories without consent
    cation constitute 24% of data subjects;
    complaints received. These included, among other things, • automated individual decisions.
    requests to close accounts with
    online services/commerce or requests 8% of complaints concern the right
    deletion of personal data (objection addresses, in particular in the field of
    e-mail, evaluations, etc.) accessible on prospecting sites. The CNPD intervened when
    Internet (such as directories for example). prospecting unsubscribe links
                                                           in emails were not functional or
    In 14% of cases, complainants asked when the controller did not give
    the CNPD to verify the lawfulness of certain steps following opposition requests.
    administrative or commercial practices.
    In particular, they questioned: The unauthorized transmission of data
                                                           to third parties has also led to some
    • unlawful or excessive collection of data number of complaints (8%). This includes by
      (e.g. license plates); example :
    • the request for documents such as the map
      identity card or passport for the purpose of • the publication of data (videos, photos,
      identity verification; etc.) online without sufficiently protecting them




                                             62
or the use of data for purposes BETTING REQUESTS
  other than those for which they were IN COMPLIANCE
  initially collected;
• sending emails to people In 2021, 53 national complaints led to
  for which they were not intended or the sending of recommendations for corrective action
  confidential emails distributed in compliance. These are cases where the CNPD has
  collectively and visibly to all requested from the data controller to
  recipients (“CC” instead of “BCC”). put in place measures to comply
                                                      GDPR (e.g. granting a request
5% of complaints concerned de- access, deletion, opposition, modification
orders to verify the legality of consultation of notices, implementation of measures to
tations carried out by additional security sector agents, etc.) without having had to
register to the national register of persons phy- initiate a formal investigation procedure.
(RNPP).
                                                      Complaints closed at national level,
The majority of complaints related to surveillance are added through the European system of
launches in the workplace (5% of complaints) cooperation another 86 complaints that have
related to CCTV. ended with requests for
                                                      compliance.




                                                             63
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                    8 Analyze data breaches

    The GDPR requires that a
      security breach Two types of security breaches
    causing, so data must be notified
    accidental or unlawful, to the CNPD:
         the destruction, the
   loss, alteration or • breaches of data
Unauthorized Disclosure Under Settlement
  general data on the protection of
                                       data ; And
 personnel must be managed
                                     • data breaches
       in respect of
                                       in the community sector
 requirements of Section 33 electronic cations.
            and 34 GDPR.
                                     VIOLATIONS OF
                                     DATA IN
                                     GDPR FRAMEWORK

                    Controllers must However, controllers are
                    notify data breaches of a character required to maintain documentation of all
                    personnel at the CNPD within 72 security incidents involving donations
                    hours after becoming aware of them of a personal nature.
                    whether the breach in question is likely
                    create a risk to rights and freedoms In 2021, 333 data breaches were
                    of the persons concerned. notified to the CNPD, i.e. 46 less than in
                                                                          2020.
                    The CNPD would like to point out that the statistics
                    following are only based on In total, since the entry into force of the GDPR
                    personal data breaches - on May 25, 2018, the National Commission received
                    nel which have been notified to the CNPD. They did 1238 data breaches. This corresponds to
                    not reflect the total number of incidents of an average of 29 breach notifications
                    security related to data to data per month.
                    personal character that occur in
                    organizations and which is difficult to estimate. As in 2020, the CNPD noted:




                                                            64
• that the health sector has encountered a Malicious external acts are at
  significant number of security incidents, the origin of more than a quarter of breaches
  a state further accentuated by the notified pandemic. This type of incident often has a
  COVID-19 and computer processing have a greater impact on people
  relative. However, the CNPD notes the efforts of those concerned. In many cases, these
  this sector in order to treat and prevent these acts target the access or obtaining of data
  incidents. that allow transactions to be carried out
• that it receives few or no financial notifications without the knowledge of the persons concerned
  organizations from the field of (e.g. interception of credit card data)
  banks and insurance companies, despite the size of bank payments, phishing to obtain the
  significant. service connection information
• that small and medium-sized enterprises payment, identity theft to carry out
  sometimes have difficulty understanding a financial transaction, etc.).
  notification management process
  in the prevention of incidents, that in Malicious internal acts have occurred
  their management. ducts mainly during departures, volun-
                                                     whether or not, employees of an organization and
The leading cause of data breaches including members of management in
of a personal nature remains human error medium-sized or small structures: this
(internal non-malicious act) in 62% of situations leads people to copy
case. data for potential use in
                                                     their new situation. Likewise, the situations
Most human errors occur: termination of activity / merger / acquisition of
                                                     companies are periods of risk for
• when an existing procedure is not unauthorized exfiltration of data. These
  followed; acts are often the consequence of a
• when an existing security rule is unfamiliar with the legal or technical framework
  circumvented: this type of case has been the subject of and frequently gives rise to complaints
  incidents with significant consequences; at the prosecutor's office.
• when there are not enough staff
  made aware of confidentiality rules at Other cases are related to bugs
  apply ; techniques that often result in
• following a careless error: dependent disclosure of personal data
  of the context, the setting up of an unauthorized third party (e.g. setting up or
  control mechanism before transmission update of a new online service, case
  data (e.g. 4-eyes principle) not intended to use a service, etc.).
  probably would have avoided this type
  incident.




                                                            65
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    CAUSES OF VIOLATIONS
              Internal non-malicious act (62%)
              Malicious internal act (6%)
              External non-malicious act (5%)
              Malevolent external act (26%)
              Other (1%)




    NATURE OF INCIDENTS
              Personal data sent
              to the wrong recipient (30%)
              Hacking, hacking (17%)
              Unintentional posting (12%)
              Disclosure of personal data
              from the wrong person (14%)
              Lost or stolen device (8%)
              Phishing, Phishing (5%)
              Technical issue (3%)
              Lost, stolen, unsecured papers (3%)
              Mail lost, opened (3%)
              Malware, malicious software (2%)
              Unauthorized verbal communication (1%)
              Incorrect destruction of personal data
              on paper (1%)
              Others (1%)




                             66
NATURE OF IMPACT
Almost all data breaches
have an impact related to the loss of
confidentiality of the data concerned. He is
note the appearance of mixed cases concerning
ransomeware-type attacks that
combine a loss of availability but
also steadily growing a loss
of confidentiality following the partial exfiltration
or total data. Those responsible for
treatment are generally in difficulty facing
to the analysis of this type of incident, mainly
because of the level of detail of the available logs
insufficient or inappropriate. Confidentiality (89%)
                                                              Availability (5%)
                                                              Integrity (6%)




  POTENTIAL NUMBER OF PEOPLE
  IMPACTED PER INCIDENT
(NC = number of people impacted per system whose logging of access to
breach not known – this may be the case personal data is mismatched
during data exfiltration from one or non-existent)

400

350

300

250

200

150

100

 50

  0
             NC 1 2 to 5 6 to 10 11 to 50 51 to 100 101 to 1000




                                                            67
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




 NUMBER OF DAYS BETWEEN BEGINNING OF INCIDENT
 AND INCIDENT DETECTION
(NC = Start date of the incident not known)

500


400


300


200


100


  0
           NC 1 2 to 5 days 6 to 10 days 11 to 30 days 31 to 60 days More than 60 days




                     More than half of security incidents are from a departure from an organization and also
                     detected no later than 5 days after their over- theft of data linked to hacks not
                     come. However, the CNPD found that detected.
                     almost 10% of data breaches
                     personal nature are only detected at The CNPD also draws the attention of
                     minimum one month after having occurred: it is responsible for the treatment on the fact that a
                     more specifically, incidents related to a number of acts of piracy and
                     continued violations of the phishing policy are targeted at staff of the
                     security of the organization (e.g.: the personnel management of an organization and their entourage
                     management sends the profession- data (e.g. assistant / management secretary). These
                     contacts on their personal email to work malicious acts often have as their objective
                     from home and the personal email is hacked), to obtain information allowing
                     of data used by employees during kill fraudulent financial transactions.




                                                           68
The National Commission
                                                                                              has powers
                                                                                              investigation in order to
                                                                                              ensure compliance with the
                                                                                              legislation applicable in
                                                                                              protective material
                                                                                              Datas. In case of
                                                                                              treatment contrary to
                                                                                              regulations, the CNPD
                                                                                              can adopt measures
9 Control and adopt corrective measures including
          corrective measures financial fines.



The CNPD may launch investigations following (checks and audits) was low due to
complaints (reactive approach) or restrictions relating to the pandemic.
own initiative (proactive approach). These
surveys can be conducted as CONTROLS
on-site visits or in the form of audits.
                                                        The CNPD carries out on-site visits
When the CNPD wants to verify compliance proactively as part of campaigns
in relation to a specific theme of the themes (video surveillance, geolocation
GDPR, surveys may in particular and COVID-19 – see below) or visits to
take the form of reactive site visit campaigns following notified incidents,
on-site or audits of a sample of complaints received, information
organizations selected on the basis of reports in the media or following
risk criteria, such as a previous check. These checks are done
industry or organization size, through unannounced site visits
number of people involved or the type of beforehand.
processed data.
                                                        The CNPD carried out 18 on-site visits in 2021,
The power of investigation allows the CNPD to obtain against 8 in 2020.
of the controller or sub-
processing access to: The vast majority of these controls
                                                        concerned the control campaign in order to
• all personal data to verify compliance with the GDPR
  are processed and, in general, all of the collection and use of data to
  the information necessary for the exercise of his personal character put in place by the
  assignment ; organizations as part of the measures
• all premises, including any installation they have taken to fight against
  and any means of treatment. spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.

It should be noted that in comparison with the This campaign is a continuation of the
previous years, the number of investigations followed by the CNPD of the particularities and risks




                                                               69
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




             70
specific in terms of protection of Next, the CNPD continued the the-
pandemic-induced data. The matic visits relating to transparency which have
of this campaign began in were launched in 2020 with 6 companies
December 2020 to extend during the e-commerce sector. There
of the year 2021 on a sample of 20 transparency is a well-established principle in
public and private organizations in all matters of personal data protection
sizes and from various sectors of activity. nal. Its primary objective is to install
                                                   trust between data controllers
AUDITS lies and the people concerned. The concept
                                                   of transparency, however, takes on a dimension
With the entry into force of the GDPR, the CNPD is even stronger with the GDPR and the
has also implemented the cipe accountability methodology,
audit, particularly well suited to which it is intrinsically linked. The trans-
investigations when it comes to verifying parentage must allow the persons concerned
compliance with legislation on the protection of born to have control over the use by the
personal data in an RT framework of their personal data and
more complex organizational or technical. to require data controllers
                                                   hold them to account in this regard. The year
As with the on-site visits, the 2021 investigations made it possible to finalize the investigation reports
in the form of audits can be organized and prepare statements of objections.
either reactively in the context of a
investigation decided following a complaint The year 2021 also marks the end of the
received, either proactively in the form of the first thematic audit on the function of
thematic campaign on Data Protection Officers (DPOs).
selected obligations of the regulation. Such The Restricted Training of the CNPD took
thematic campaigns carried out with all the 25 decisions of this campaign
organizations selected on the basis of criteria whose objective was to verify compliance
sampling specific to the theme of organizations to the obligations of the GDPR in
chosen, allow the CNPD to assess the matter of appointing the DPO, his missions
level of compliance of organizations with the and its functions. A public relationship with
Data protection. conclusions of this thematic campaign will
                                                   be released in 2022.




                                                          71
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




                                                          makes a decision on the outcome of an investigation
    DECISIONS ON THE OUTCOME in accordance with article 41 of the law of August 1
    INQUIRIES 2018 on the organization of the Commission
                                                          national for the protection of data and the
    As part of its missions, the CNPD has,
                                                          general data protection regime.
    among other things, the power to adopt the measures
    corrections provided for in Article 58.2 of the GDPR
                                                          Before said restricted formation takes
    (e.g. warning, call to order, warning,
                                                          such a decision, a hearing allows him
    compliance, temporary, permanent limitation, or
                                                          to hear both the head of the investigation and
    prohibition of processing, etc.), including the
                                                          the controller who may present observations
    to impose administrative fines in
                                                          oral vations on the case and respond to any
    application of Article 83 of the GDPR in addition
                                                          any questions from the training
    or instead of other correct measures
                                                          restraint.
    according to the specific characteristics
    in each case.
                                                          The first decisions of the Commission
                                                          national committee sitting in a restricted formation on
    Violations by the controller
                                                          the outcome of investigations carried out since 2018
    of the GDPR may be subject to additional fines.
                                                          were taken in 2021. 49 files were able to be
    administrative costs of up to 20 mil-
                                                          closed by the National Commission sitting
    lion euros or up to 4% of turnover
                                                          in restricted formation, with or without measures
    annual total worldwide for the previous financial year,
                                                          corrections or fines (12 closed in
    the highest amount being retained. GDPR
                                                          the absence of breaches identified, 37 with
    nevertheless requires that the penalties be
                                                          corrective measures including 25 with fines).
     "effective, proportionate and dissuasive" -
                                                          Of these cases, 48 decisions concerned
    this implying that in each specific case,
                                                          a purely national affair (total of
    the elements listed in Article 83.2 of the GDPR
                                                          €319,500 in administrative fines) and
    are taken into account, such as the
                                                          a decision was the result of cooperation
    nature, gravity and duration of the violation, the
                                                          European Union in accordance with Articles
    number of data subjects affected
                                                          60 and following of the GDPR (with a fine
    and the level of damage they suffered, the
                                                          administrative cost of €746,000,000).
    categories of personal data
    concerned by the breach or the fact that
                                                          Of the 49 cases, 20 decisions concerned
    the violation was committed deliberately or by
                                                          the processing of data carried out through a
    neglect.
                                                          video surveillance system and/or by a
                                                          geolocation device.
    Corrective action cannot be
    pronounced only by the National Commission
                                                          In the majority of decisions, the Commission
    sitting in a restricted formation when it
                                                          National Committee sitting in a restricted formation




                                            72
found that the persons concerned were not (entrance and exit, threshold, porch, door, awning,
insufficiently informed about hall treatment, etc.) must have a field of vision
of their personal data limited to the area strictly necessary
in accordance with the provisions of article 13 to visualize the persons preparing to
of the GDPR. to access. The cameras that film access
                                                    exteriors must therefore not mark out any
In other of the said decisions, a the width of a sidewalk alongside, if any,
non-compliance with Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR (prin- the building or adjacent public roads.
data minimization principle) has been
Likewise, the external cameras installed
ras installed by the controlled allowed the surroundings or surroundings of a building must
continuous and permanent monitoring on be configured in such a way as not to capture the
the workplace of employees. The Public Roads Commission, nor the surroundings, entrances, access
National Assembly sitting in restricted formation and interiors of other neighboring buildings
does not deny that in certain cases, it may appear to eventually fall within their field of
necessary for a vision controller.
install a CCTV system
At work. On the other hand, she underlines In addition, 25 decisions were taken
always in its decisions only in order to respect- within the framework of the investigation campaign
ter the principle of proportionality, the respon- thematic on the function of the delegate to the
sand of the processing must resort to the means of data protection. The CNPD has chosen
monitoring the most protective of the sphere beforehand 25 organizations, representing the
privacy of the employee by limiting, for example, main sectors of activity and corresponding
the fields of vision of the cameras to the only one to the most important entities of the country in
area required to reach the function(s) based on the number of employees, the number of
purpose(s) pursued, without processing carried out and the sensitivity of the
submit employees to monitoring in terms of processed data. The objective was to check whether
permanence in the workplace. the organizations chosen were in compliance
                                                    with GDPR requirements, in particular
In the same vein, the Commission with Articles 37 to 39 of the GDPR concerning
national committee sitting in restricted formation the appointment of the delegate for the protection of
retained in some of its given decisions, its function and its missions. most
that the fields of vision of the cameras often, the National Commission sitting
were disproportionate and in violation of said in restricted formation concluded in its
article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, because they allowed decisions that article 38. 1 of the GDPR did not
to monitor neighboring land where it has been respected, because the protection delegate
public way, while she is of the opinion that the data was not associated in any way
cameras intended to monitor a place of appropriate access to all matters relating to the




                                                           73
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    protection of personal data and the general regime on the protection
    or that the said delegate had not provided data, the CNPD is bound by secrecy
    its missions of information and advice, thus professional which prevents it from communicating
    as its mission of control (article 39.1 a) and b in detail on a specific file.
    GDPR).
                                                            In addition, under article 52 of the law of
    Four decisions of the National Commission August 1, 2018 on the organization of the
    sitting in formation related to other National Commission for the Protection of
    topics. For example, in a decision on a data and general regime on the protection
    breach of the obligation to document one of the data, the complete publication and in
    violation of personal data, of clear decisions of the CNPD is to be considered
    notify it to the CNPD and communicate it to the as an additional sanction.
    data subject has been selected (articles
    33 and 34 of the GDPR), while in another Said article provides that the CNPD can only-
    a non-compliance with article 15.2 of the law of ment order the publication of its decisions
    August 1, 2018 relating to the processing of data if the remedies against the decision are
    of a personal nature in criminal matters and exhausted and if the publication does not risk
    national security (right to erasure) was to cause disproportionate harm to the
    observed. parties involved.

    An appeal against the decisions of the CNPD As a matter of principle, the CNPD publishes on its website
    can be opened before the Tribunal administra- internet its decisions anonymously
    tif, which rules on the merits of the case. The period of and this even before the remedies
    appeal is three months. are not exhausted, apart from the decisions for
                                                            which an anonymous publication is not
    However, pursuant to article 42 of the law, not possible due to the quality of the
    of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the person responsible for the processing and content of the
    National Commission for the Protection of Rulings.




                                              74
PROCEDURE RELATING TO INVESTIGATIONS
         AND CNPD DECISION-MAKING


I
    The opening of an investigation may be proposed at any time by a member of the College
    in accordance with article 38 of the aforementioned law of August 1, 2018. He submits this proposal to the
    College which approves it within a period of one month by a majority of votes and which appoints a
member of the College, with the exception of the president, as head of investigation.

The investigation file is then instructed by the head of investigation on the basis of the information, statements
and/or documents collected during the investigation, including through any interviews and/or
requests for additional information. At the end of the investigation, the head of investigation retains the
alleged violations of the GDPR that it intends to materialize in the form of grievances. The grievances are then
transmitted to the controlled who will be heard according to the adversarial principle.

These possible exchanges are included in the investigation file which will be sent to the Training
Restraint. In the event that the head of investigation does not identify or uphold any grievance, he transmits
to the Restricted Formation a proposal for closure.

Pursuant to Article 10 2° b) of the CNPD's internal rules adopted by decision
No. 3AD/2020 of January 22, 2020, the National Commission sitting in restricted formation
informs the controller of the date of the session during which the case concerning him is registered
and the option offered to him to be heard there. During the said session, the head of the investigation is
heard to make oral submissions on the case and, when present at the hearing,
the controller is invited to present oral observations.

Following these sessions, the National Commission sitting in restricted formation takes up the case.
deliberate. The decisions it takes are published anonymously, unless anonymization
is not possible or if the CNPD has decided to apply article 52 of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018,
that is to say, to order the publication of a decision in full and by name.




                                                   75
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




             76
In accordance with the law of
                                                                                              August 1, 2018 relating to the
                                                                                              protection of people
                                                                                              physical with respect to
                                                                                              data processing
                                                                                              personal
                                                                                              in criminal matters as well
                                                                                              only in terms of safety
                                                                                              national, the CNPD is also
                                                                                              competent to control
                                                                                              data processing
                                                                                              operated by the authorities
                                                                                              repressive or authorities

MONITORING OF NATIONAL SECURITY TREATMENTS,
                                                                                              such as the Grand Police
OF DATA FROM THE DUCAL AUTHORITIES, the Service
                                                                                              state intelligence,
LAW ENFORCEMENT OR SECURITY the National Authority for
                                                                                              Security or Administration
NATIONAL Customs.


Article 10 of the law of 1 August 2018 on notifications and the types of penalties imposed
organization of the National Commission for under the law of 1 August 2018 relating to
the protection of data and the general regime the protection of natural persons to
on data protection provides with regard to the processing of personal data
elsewhere than the CNPD's annual report must be personal in criminal matters as well as in
include a list of types of national security violations.



1 Requests for information

The CNPD processed 30 requests for information concerned and the data controllers
written or oral in terms of processing have requested the CNPD in particular concerning the
of data in the law enforcement field and transmission of personal data
national security. to the competent authorities in the context
                                                    research and observation of offenses
About a third of requests for criminal information. Finally, the National Commission has
related to the modalities of the exercise of the right answered questions about the use
access of the persons concerned in terms of criminal records in employment relations.
with regard to the specificities of the processing
of data implemented by the authorities In the continuity of the work relating to the “File
repressive. Among the other central matters" of the Grand Ducal Police, the CNPD has
criminal or public security, the people participated in several meetings of the monitoring group




                                                            77
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    “recommendations made by the CNPD of the police, the Ministry of Internal Security,
    and the IGP relating to the processing of data from the Ministry of Justice, the General Prosecutor's Office and
    of a personal nature carried out by the CNPD Police. Discussions also took place
    Grand-Ducal”, composed of representatives of with the National Security Authority and with the
    the Grand-Ducal Police, the General Inspectorate Intelligence Service.



    2 Reviews

    The CNPD has adopted 5 opinions relating to the processing of data which have been raised in relation to the
    of personal data in the files of the Police, and more particularly by
    criminal law and national security. compared to the central file in summer 2019. Indeed, the
    These are positions concerning: Minister of Homeland Security had requested
                                                        the National Commission to deliver an opinion to the
    • the “reputability check” procedures subject of the central file and the recommendations
      (bill no. 7691); issued at the time highlighted the need
    • the Grand-Ducal Police (bill no. 7498) of a stricter legal framework.
      (2 reviews);
    • the central file of the Grand-Ducal Police In its opinion on draft law no. 7741, the
      (bill no. 7741); CNPD commented on the modi-
    • the organization of the internal systems of the cations offered concerning access to
      prison centers. files of other administrations by agents
                                                        of the Grand Ducal Police, particularly in ma-
    The notice concerning the central file held by the third party for direct and indirect access to said files or
    Grand Ducal Police is summarized below. The manual transmission of data by
    other notices can be consulted on the administration site at the Grand Ducal Police. She has
    of the CNPD at https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/ also took a position on the interactions between
    publications/reports/index.html. the bill and the existing legal provisions
                                                        aunts supervising the files of other administrators
    CENTRAL FILE HELD BY , and the purposes for which such access
    THE GRAND-DUCALE POLICE should be able to be used, as well as the measures
                                                        to be put in place relating to access control.
    The CNPD issued an opinion on the bill The CNPD then analyzed the provisions relating to
    No. 7741 which, according to its authors, aims to send tives to the files of the Grand Duchy Police.
    criticisms regarding the protection of holds, recalling the requirements relating to




                                           78
the legislative and regulatory framework for In conclusion, the CNPD welcomed the draft
processing implemented by the Grand-du-loi Police, which provides a detailed framework for the file
hold. It analyzed the purposes proposed by the central office. She reiterated her belief that, in the
bill for the various files, including prin- operation of a democratic society, it
mainly the central file, as well as the data it would be preferable to frame by
born covered by said files. Finally, the legal or regulatory processing of
CNPD focused on the control of the most intrusive access and data, by the number of
analyzed in detail the proposed provisions in terms of the persons concerned and the sensitivity
regarding data retention periods for processed data, implemented by the
in the central file and the special files Police in the exercise of its police missions
provided for by the bill. judicial or administrative police.



3 Complaints

In 2021, the CNPD received only one response at all or responded in a manner
complaint in criminal matters and insufficient security to requests for access to the
national. Such a claim may be data subjects. In 2019,
introduced in cases where those responsible for the CNPD had received 11 complaints in this
of the treatment have not made right, do not have domain.



4 Notification of data breaches

Data controllers must Between August 20, 2018 (entry into force of the
notify data breaches under the law of 1 August 2018 organizing the
personnel to the CNPD within 72 hours National Commission for the Protection of
after having read it, if the breach of data and of the general protection regime
in question is likely to generate one of the data) and on December 31, 2021, the CNPD
risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals received three data breach notifications
concerned. concerning the processing of data
                                                         personal character in criminal matters, as well as
                                                         than in terms of national security.




                                                                79
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    5 Controls provided for by provisions
              specific legal

    In criminal matters and national security, the following aspects: allocation of access,
    certain national legislative provisions and compliance with the “need to know, need to do” principle,
    European Unions provide that the CNPD makes availability of logs and reasons for consultations
    on-site visits and/or specific audits.
    regular.
                                                            The CNPD must also proceed every four
    In this context, and on the basis of article 43 of years to data protection audits at the
    the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police, level of the national parts of the systems
    In 2019, the CNPD began an audit of European access to information (Schengen Information
    to certain State files of System members) SIS II and VIS (Visa Information System
    the Police having the quality of police officer (VIS) as well as regular reviews of the logs
    judiciary or administrative police officer. of these information systems. The CNPD has
    This audit, still in progress due to the start of the audits for these two systems on the
    COVID-19 pandemic, covers in particular the second half of 2021.



    6 European cooperation

    Coordinated supervision of the treatment of The CSC brings together in its biannual meetings
    data in the information systems EU supervisory authorities, the Controller
    of the EU and by the European Data Protection Bodies, Offices and Agencies (EDPS),
    Europeans will be gradually transferred, as well as the supervisory authorities of the Member States
    coordination groups (such as non-EU Schengen members
    SIS II Supervision Coordination Group where provided for by EU law.
    or the Oversight Coordination Group
    European Customs Information System) The main objective of the CSC is to ensure the
    to the Coordinated Supervision Committee (CSC), coordinated monitoring of systems
    established in December 2019 and operating since under EU Information and Organs, Offices
    the aegis of the EDPB. and EU agencies in the areas of




                                              80
Borders, Asylum and Migration (SIS, The Committee has published its work program
EES, ETIAS and VIS), of police cooperation for the period from 2020 to 2022 with as
and judicial (SIS, European Public Prosecutor's Office, Eurojust, planned activities:
ECRIS-TCN) and the internal market (IMI).
                                                  • the promotion of people's rights
The tasks of the Committee consist, in particular, concerned;
in the support to be provided to the authorities in • the examination of difficulties of interpretation or
control in carrying out audits and applying Community law and
inspections, the development of national work;
the interpretation or application of acts • the exchange of information;
EU legal frameworks and proposals • carrying out joint audits or inspections
harmonized solutions, the study of coordinated problems;
related to the exercise of independent control • preparation for start-up supervision
or the exercise and promotion of the rights of the activities of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and
persons concerned. other EU bodies and systems
                                                    information that will fall within the scope
                                                    application of CCS in the future.




                                                         81
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




             82
The National Commission
                                                                                            is also loaded
                                                                                            to ensure the application
                                                                                            provisions of

PROTECTION OF LIFE the amended law of 30
                                                                                            May 2005 regarding
PRIVATE IN THE SECTOR the protection of life
                                                                                            private sector
COMMUNICATIONS communications
                                                                                            electronics and its
ELECTRONIC implementing regulations.




1 Data breaches in the sector
          electronic communications

In accordance with Regulation (EU) No. 611/2013 In order to facilitate the task of suppliers of
of the European Commission of June 24, 2013, electronic communications services, the
communications service providers National Commission proposes a form
publicly available electronic mail, such as security breach notifications
fixed/mobile telephone companies or available on its website. This form
Internet service providers, must notify the resumes of all relevant matters
CNPD within 24 hours of the finding to which suppliers must respond
of a breach of security and confidentiality in such a situation.
personal data. In addition,
they are required to inform their subscribers in the event In 2021, no data breach in the
where the incident observed is likely to affect the electronic communications sector has
unfavorably their level of protection has been reported to the CNPD.
privacy and data concerning them.




                                                             83
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    2 Retention of traffic data
              and location

    European Directive 2006/24/EC on the between, on the one hand, access to the data processed
    data retention had been transposed by communications providers
    at the national level by the law of July 24 electronics within the framework of the fight against the
    2010 amending the law of 30 May 2005 on terrorism and serious crime, and, on the other hand,
    protection of privacy in the sector of the protection of the privacy of citizens.
    electronic communications. The objective of
    this directive was to retain for Gold, the directive was overturned by the Court of
    a certain period of time the data processed by the courts of the European Union dated 8
    telecommunications operators and April 2014 by the judgment “Digital Rights Ireland”.
    Internet service providers for the needs National transposition laws have not
    search, detection and pursuit, however, have not been amended accordingly
    offences. One of the major challenges of and the National Commission has not received
    this directive was the maintenance of the balance of instruction in this framework by his ministry




                                            84
of guardianship. It continues to transmit to it • the lapse of time between the date from
annually with a view to their continuation at the end of which the data was kept
European Commission statistics on the and the date on which the competent authorities
retention of data under the articles requested their transmission,
5 and 9. For this purpose, the service providers • the cases in which the requests for
or operators retain and continue to the data could not be satisfied.
National Commission, at its request,
information including in particular: In 2021, the competent authorities made 2,541
                                                    requests from operators. This figure has
• cases in which information decreased slightly (-15%) compared to the year
  were transmitted to the competent authorities in 2020 where 2,990 requests had been made.
  in accordance with national legislation
  applies,




                                                           85
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




             86
INTERNATIONAL WORK The activity of the
                                                                                          National Commission has
IN THE AREA marked by a strong
                                                                                          participation in the work
OF PROTECTION Europeans, dominated by
                                                                                          complex cases and
TECHNICAL DATA.


The National Commission, represented by • The Spring Conference with its
one or more of its agents, contributed to a seminar on "European Case Handling
2021 to the work of many organizations at the Workshop”.
European and international level. It was
in particular: As in 2020, other meetings
                                                    work and conferences to which the CNPD
• of the European Committee for the protection of regularly participates had to be canceled in
  data (EDPB or European Data Protection due to the pandemic:
  Board) which brings together all the European authorities
  institutions as well as the European Supervisor at • the “Berlin Group”, dedicated to the protection
  data protection (EDPS or European data in the communications sector)
  Data Protection Supervisor); electronic and
• the international conference of commissioners- • the conference of European commissioners in
  saries to data protection and life data protection.
  private.




                                                           87
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    1 European Data Protection Board (EDPB)


                                                          in the area of law enforcement in the European Union
                                                          pean.

                                                          It may adopt general guidance documents
    The EDPB is an independent European body which works to clarify the provisions of the acts
    contributes to the consistent application of the rules in European legislation on the protection
    data protection within data and, in this way, provide
    the European Union and encourages cooperation stakeholders involved consistent interpretation
    between EU authorities responsible for protecting their rights and obligations.
    Datas.
                                                          The GDPR also entrusts it with the mission
    It consists of representatives of the authorities to adopt decisions binding on
    national authorities responsible for the protection of national supervisory authorities in order to
    data and the European Supervisor to ensure consistent application of its
    data protection, in English “European provisions.
    Data Protection Supervisor” (EDPS).
                                                          The EDPB has adapted its way of working in
    The EDPB is established by the general regulations in the context of the pandemic and has organized 15
    on data protection and is based on plenary meetings, one of which is face-to-face
    Brussels. The European Commission has the right, bringing together its members (including the
    to take part in CNPD activities and meetings), compared to 11 plenary meetings per
    Committee, but does not have the right to vote. year on average since its creation.

    The EDPB has a secretariat, which is provided by PARTICIPATION DE LA CNPD
    the EDPS. A memorandum of understanding defines the condi- TO SUB-GROUPS
    of the cooperation between the EDPB and the EDPS. (“EXPERT SUBGROUPS”)
    The purpose of the EDPB is to guarantee the application In addition to plenary meetings, the authorities of
    consistent with the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union
    data as well as the Euro- Directive meet in thematic sub-groups
    policy in the field of Data Protection (legal and IT).




                                            88
The CNPD therefore ensured its participation in The year was marked by the monitoring of new
work and continues to be represented within legislative proposals by the COM and
of all thematic expert sub-groups the encouragement and facilitation of the use
and networks of the Committee, of which there are 12, all of the tools for cooperation and
as well as the biannual meetings of the Coherence Committee provided for in Chapter VII of the GDPR
Coordinated Supervision (CSC). moving towards coordinated actions, a
                                                  expert pool support and implementation
These are the sub-groups (“Expert Sub of a uniform cross-border cooperation and
Groups”) following: effective. The interpretation of the single window has been
                                                  expanded by the judgment in case C-645/19
• Border, Travel and Law Enforcement (BTLE); Facebook v Gegevensbeschermingsautoriteit
• Compliance, e-Government and Health (CEH); by the Court of Justice of the EU of June 15, 2021.
• Cooperation (COOP);
• Enforcement (ENF); Along with many other ongoing projects, the
• Financial Matters (FMESG); CNPD assumed the role of rapporteur and/or co-
• Finishing Taskforce (FINES); rapporteur for the following projects finalized in
• International Transfer (ITS); 2021:
• IT Users;
• Key Provisions (KEYP); • Letter to ENISA including recommendations
• Strategic Advisory (SAESG); certifications regarding the “EU cybersecurity certifi-
• Social Media (SOCM); cation Cloud Scheme” subject to consultation
• Technology (TECH). public;
                                                  • Version for public consultation of
The CNPD attended the meetings of the guidance on the analysis of the criteria of
Supplementary Measures Taskforce, from the 101 certification (Addendum to the guidelines
Complaints Taskforce and Cookie Taskforce. 1/2018 on the certification and identification of
                                                    certification criteria);
The Luxembourg supervisory authority has thus • Guidelines on voice assistants;
participated in nearly 200 meetings in 2021 • Update of the procedure for adopting the
working groups, not to mention the certification criteria meetings.
in the editorial team. The CNPD has daily
ensured the follow-up of the files processed The CNPD continued its contributions as
at Committee level at group level co-rapporteur for work in progress in 2020 on
and has been involved in the drafting of various of the following documents:
draft guidelines, assuming
for some the role of rapporteur or co- • Guidelines on the rights of persons
rapporteur. concerned;




                                                          89
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    • Legitimate Interest Guidelines; • Guidelines 05/2021 on interaction
    • Analysis of the comments received during the between the application of Article 3 and the
      public consultation - Guidance on the analysis of provisions on international transfers
      certification criteria (Addendum to in accordance with chapter V of the GDPR
      guidelines 1/2018 on certification and • Guidance on the analysis of the criteria for
      identification of certification criteria). certification (Addendum to the guidelines
                                                                                 1/2018 on the certification and identification of
    After contributing as a lead- certification criteria)
    rapporteur for the implementation of procedures
    for the adoption of the approval criteria for Some of these documents are summarized below
    certification bodies, criteria below. They can all be downloaded in
    certification and a European label for their full version on the Internet3.
    certification, the CNPD was in 2021 the first
    authority to submit certification criteria Contribution to the evaluation of the Directive
    to the EDPB for advice. (EU) 2016/680

    DOCUMENTS ADOPTED IN 2021 The EDPB and the various supervisory authorities
                                                                               have contributed to the evaluation of the directive (EU)
    The EDPB has adopted numerous documents of 2016/680 of April 27, 2016 relating to the protection
    work, guidance and letters. natural persons with respect to
    • Recommendations 01/2021 on the criteria for processing personal data
       benchmark for adequacy in the framework by the competent authorities for the purposes of
       of the directive on the protection of the prevention of criminal offences, investigations
       data in the field of law enforcement and prosecution in this area or enforcement
    • Guidelines 01/2021 on examples of criminal sanctions, and on the free movement of
       notification of data breach such data, and repealing the Framework Decision
    • Guidelines 02/2021 on assistants 2008/977/JHA of the Council (hereinafter the “Directive
       Virtual Voices (EU) 2016/680"), to be carried out by the
    • Recommendations 02/2021 based on European Commission in accordance with
       legal framework for the storage of data in article 62 of the same directive. The CNPD
       credit card for the sole purpose of facilitating also contributed individually in
       subsequent online transactions providing answers to a questionnaire,
    • Guidelines 03/2021 on the application of accessible online4. The contribution of
       Article 65(1)(a) GDPR The EDPB5 therefore consists of a summary
    • Guidelines 04/2021 on the codes of the different responses that the authorities of
       conduct as transfer tools controls provided to the questionnaires as well as




    3
        https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents_en
    4
        https://edpb.europa.eu/individual-replies-data-protection-supervisory-authorities-european-commissions-evaluation-led_en
    5
        https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/other/contribution-edpb-european-commissions-evaluation-data_en



                                                          90
general positions aimed at stakeholders Statements and opinions on new
policies. In these positions, the EDPB raises legislative initiatives
in particular that due to the transposition
fairly recent Directive (EU) 2016/680 The EDPB and the EDPS have adopted an opinion
by the Member States, and consequently jointly concerning the proposal relating
the entry into force of the regime applicable in to the Commission proposal for a
data protection matters enacted by regulations on data governance
Directive (EU) 2016/680, experience and (Data Governance Act, DGA). This regulation
statistics of related supervisory authorities aims to promote the availability of data in
with activities in this area are limited increasing confidence in intermediaries
and under development. Therefore, data and strengthening the mechanisms of
the EDPB is of the opinion that it is too early to derive data sharing across the EU.
complete conclusions on the effectiveness of the In particular, it is intended to promote
Directive. the provision of data from the sector
                                                      public for reuse and sharing of
First data decision procedure between companies, while allowing
urgently binding in accordance with the use of personal data
to article Art. 66 GDPR with the help of a “sharing intermediary
                                                      of personal data". This
The EDPB adopted its first contrai- proposal also aims to allow
urgent action following a request for the use of data for reasons
the Hamburg supervisory authority, after altruists.
the latter has adopted provisional measures to
against Facebook Ireland Ltd (Facebook Dispute Resolution Procedure
IE). More specifically, the supervisory authority had
ordered a ban on processing the data of After review by the Irish authority
WhatsApp users by Facebook IE for objections by authorities
its own needs following a modification to its project of
tion of terms of service and policy decision following WhatsApp investigation
in respect of privacy applied IE opened on its own initiative, a procedure
cables to European WhatsApp users for dispute resolution has been initiated. The decision to
Ireland Ltd. The EDPB has decided that no measure the EDPB relates to the substance of the objections judged
should only be adopted by the “relevant and reasoned” authority aimed at determining
Irish review of Facebook whether or not WhatsApp IE complied with obligations
IE in this case, but that the supervisory authority in matters of transparency rests with it.
had to conduct a regulatory investigation.




                                                              91
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    Adoption of the adequacy decision Project plan for support
    for South Korea pool of experts (SPE)

    The European Committee for the Protection of In pursuing the key actions of the strategy
    data focused on general aspects EDPB 2021-2023, the EDPB agreed
    GDPR rules and public authority access to the PES project plan. The PES aims to
    to the personal data transferred provide material support to members of the
    from the European Economic Area (EEA) to the EDPB in the form of useful expertise
    Republic of Korea for law enforcement purposes and for investigation and enforcement activities
    national security, including avenues of re- and to strengthen cooperation and solidarity
    courses available for individuals within between EDPB members by sharing,
    the EEA and the effectiveness of the application of reinforcing and complementing their strengths and
    safeguards provided by the Korean legal framework. meeting operational needs.

    Taking into account the opinion issued by the EDPB, Opinion on consistency
    the European Commission has noted the
    17 December 2021, in its decision to ad- In order to ensure the consistent application of the
    cation that the Republic of Korea ensures a GDPR in cases with implications
    adequate level of protection in cross-border matters, the EDPB issued 30 opinions relating to
    protection of personal data- consistency.
    nel, in accordance with the general regulation on the
    Data protection.

    Launch of the first
    coordinated action

    The EDPB has voted the framework for actions
    coordinates, the “Coordinated Enforcement
    Framework” (CEF) in 2020. It now has
    been decided to launch the first action
    coordinated on the use by the sector
    public cloud-based services. In
    coordinated action, the EDPB gives priority
    to a certain subject on which the authorities
    members can work at the national level.




                                            92
2 International Conference on
          Global Privacy Assembly

                                                        The closed session was opened by Elizabeth
                                                        Denham, outgoing president of the GPA and
                                                        British Information Commissioner. She greeted
                                                        the work of the privacy community
                                                        privacy during the pandemic, calling for this
                                                        that the Assembly continues to have an impact.

                                                        Ms Denham said: “We were already
                                                        in a data-driven era, before
The “Global Privacy Assembly (GPA)” is even that the pandemic does not amplify this
a forum for exchanges on a global scale, accelerating digital growth.
where 130 members share best prac- Today, data-driven innovation
ticks and adopt common positions. helps us get through health crises and
Established in 1979, it was known as influencing all facets of society.
“International Conference of Data Protection
tion and Privacy Commissioners (ICDPPC) » The work of our community is at the heart of
until 2019. this, ensuring that people trust
                                                        to this innovation. But we can't
The CNPD participated in the open sessions and not assume that privacy will always have
closed of the 43rd edition of the global meeting a seat at the table. Our contribution to
on privacy, organized online from 18 to discussions on the main problems of
October 21, 2021. society depends on the understanding that
                                                        data protection supervisors and
Discussions between Commissioners and others provide valuable insight,
stakeholders have focused on issues a practical mindset and that we can
important in this regard, such as responding quickly. »
facial recognition, Big Data, processing
data in the context of Covid-19, Resolutions were discussed and approved
international data transfers, the Internet discussed during the conference, giving a point of view
Objects, artificial intelligence, smart cities shared view on a range of hot topics
or digital identity. important:




                                                               93
4 ACTIVITIES IN 2021




    • data sharing for the public good; the CIRCABC resource platform in order to
    • children's digital rights; update and improve the quality of
    • government access to data; online library resources while
    • the future of the Global Privacy Assembly; respecting a new classification by types
    • international cooperation in teaching and training materials, including
      law enforcement; adding additional sections for
    • and regulatory sandboxes. meet current expectations. This work of
                                                          update was completed until December
    The Assembly also adopted a 2020 plan with the CNPD intervening at the level of
    strategic for the next two years, technical management for download
    committing to continue to focus on documents edited by members of the
    the promotion of global privacy, to GPA within the new architecture of
    maximize the influence of surrogacy and strengthen the filing and deletion of documents
    member abilities. considered more relevant.

    The “Digital Education Working Group” The new table that lists the 137
                                                          updated resources was released at the end of the
    The priority of this working group is sensi- month of February 2021. These include tools
    engage children more, interactive learning teens, lesson plans/
    and adults to protection questions scenarios, guides, memos, FAQs, protection measures
    data, as it strengthens their ability to security, videos and tips on protecting
    assert their rights to the protection of your privacy, comics, games in
    data in the digital world. line, aimed at different audiences, namely
                                                          teachers and educational staff,
    An electronic library tool allows parents, children and young people in groups
    to share between age protection authorities.
    Data (APD) Worldwide Hardware
    education on the protection of privacy To accelerate the renewal of the
    available and other online resources online library related to
    both from the authorities and from other priority themes, and to familiarize
    stakeholders. The CIRCABC platform for new users with the platform,
    European Commission hosts this tool in a specific training video tutorial, in
    line created in 2015. English subtitled in French, was designed and a
                                                          adapted PowerPoint presentation has been updated
    In accordance with these objectives, the CNIL and the CNPD, provision.
    as co-leaders of the group of
    work, have continued to update and reorganize




                                            94
3 Spring Conference of Authorities
         european data protection

Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Conference preparations for the year
Conference of European Authorities 2022 in Croatia have been resumed.
data protection 2021 had to be postponed.




4 The “European Case” seminar
         Handling Workshop »

The seminar "European Case Handling case managers of the authorities of
Workshop” took place on November 16-17, 2021 and consists of exchanges
online, organized by the supervisory authority interactive on the management of complaints, the
from Gibraltar. The seminar focused on the conduct of investigations and the policies of
themes relating in particular to sanctions.




                                                        95
RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
 AND OPERATION
RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
                      AND OPERATION




                1 Human Resources

2016 19
                                               Average age: 37.5 years
                                               Average seniority with the CNPD: 4.5 years
2017 25


2018 38


2019 43


2020 50


2021 53

       0 10 20 30 40 50 60




                                     98
COLLEGE
Tine A. LARSEN, Dani JEITZ,
Legal President - Secretary of the College
                                               “Plenary training”
Thierry LALLEMANG,
Commissioner Claudia FETZ,
                                               Lawyer - Assistant Secretary of the College
Marc LEMER,
                                               “Restricted Training”
Commissioner
                                               Kathrin Kraemer,
Alain HERRMANN,
                                               Lawyer, Deputy Secretary of the College
Commissioner
                                               "Restricted Training"
(replaced Christophe BUSCHMANN
September 1, 2021)



                                               Maryse WINANDY,
 SUBSTITUTE MEMBERS Head of Reception/Secretariat Unit
Michele Bram,
Deputy Director of the Institute Cristina FERNANDES DA CUNHA,
Luxembourgeois de Régulation (ILR) Editor, Accounting and Finance

Martine KRAUS, Anna MAGI,
Vice-President at the Tribunal Editor, Human Resources
district of Luxembourg
                                               Stephanie Mathieu,
Marc HEMMERLING, Editor, Secretariat
Bachelor and Master in Computer Science

François THILL, AWARENESS DEPARTMENT
Ministry of the Economy, Marc LEMMER,
Director of Electronic Commerce Commissioner
and information security
                                               Tom Kayser,
                                               Head of Unit “External Communication”
 DATA PROTECTION OFFICER
                                               Roberta RIBEIRO OERTEL,
Bertrand NAVARRE,
                                               Head of “Awareness & Training” Unit
Lawyer, Data Protection Officer
                                               Alexandre KUHN,
                                               IT expert, legal and technological watch
 INTERNATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS
Romy SCHAUS, Vincent LEGELEUX,
Lawyer, Head of European Relations IT Expert, Legal and technological watch
and international

                                                GUIDANCE SERVICE
 ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT Thierry LALLEMANG,
Tine A. LARSEN, Curator
President
                                               Arnaud HABRAN,
Thierry RIES, Head of Service and Head of Unit
Head of the "Third country transfers" department

Jan KUFFER, Francis MAQUIL,
Head of “Internal IT & Logistics” Unit Head of “Requests for Information” Unit




                                                      99
RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
         AND OPERATION




Carmen SCHANCK,
Head of Unit “Legal Opinions”
                                                  COMPLAINTS DEPARTMENT
                                                 Thierry LALLEMANG,
Mathilde STENERSEN, Curator
Head of Unit “Thematic Guidelines”
                                                 Laurent MAGNUS,
Nina BURMEISTER, Head of Service and Head of Unit
Lawyer, Requests for information “National Complaints”

Regina DECOVILLE, Georges WEILAND,
Legal Officer, Requests for Information Head of Unit “European Complaints”

Celine DEROOSE, Sabrine ABAAB,
Lawyer, Requests for information Lawyer, European Complaints

Marie DOUZAL, Jessica BLEEK,
Lawyer, Legal advice Lawyer, European complaints

Kalliroi GRAMMENOU, Gael DUMORTIER,
Lawyer, Third country transfers Lawyer, National claims

Christian WELTER, Diana FERREIRA,
Lawyer, Requests for information Lawyer, National complaints

                                                 Barbara Giroud,
 COMPLIANCE DEPARTMENT Lawyer, National Complaints
Alain HERRMANN,
Commissioner Aleksandra GUCWA,
                                                 Legal Counsel, International Claims
Sebastien TEISSEIRE,
Head of Unit Nicolas RASE,
“Data Breach Notifications” Legal Counsel, National Complaints

Elena-Cristina GERTH,
Listener




                                      100
Florent KLING,
 INVESTIGATION DEPARTMENT Investigator, Controls
Alain HERRMANN,
Curator Marc MOSTERT,
                                                Investigator, Controls
Michael Sinner,
Head of Department and Head of Controls Unit Bao-Khanh NGUYEN TRUNG,
                                                Investigator, Controls
Edith MALHIERE,
Head of Unit “Audits” François RICHALET,
                                                Investigator, Audits
Christine Andres,
Investigator, Audits Mathieu RINCK,
                                                Investigator, Audits
Solene BENNET,
Investigator, Audits Céline SIMON-HERTZ,
                                                Investigator, Controls
Jerome COMMODI,
Investigator, Controls Maximilian WELSCH,
                                                Investigator, Controls
Fanny DRATSCHMIDT,
Investigator, Audits

Marie-Laure FABBRI,
Investigator, Audits




                                                      101
RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
        AND OPERATION




APPOINTMENT OF ALAIN HERRMANN
AS CURATOR


As of August 27, 2021, Mr. Alain His experience and his propensity to leave
Herrmann was sworn in as Com- his comfort zone will allow the CNPD to
Data Protection Commissioner to continue its development to deal with
the CNPD. future challenges and to ensure the continuity of
                                                    CNPD activities from 1 September
Alain Herrmann is a civil servant with 2021.
CNPD since 2012. He started there as an expert
in computer science and new technologies
to progress to the position of head of service
Compliance.

Previously it was active for more than 14
years as an engineer and security consultant
IT / information security with various
private organizations.

Alain Hermann has knowledge
excellence of the national, European ecosystem
and international data protection.




CERTIFICATIONS TO THE CNPD

In 2021, Mrs. Tine A. Larsen, President • Arnaud Habran (sworn in on 28
of the CNPD, took the oath of office on April 5, 2021 and appointed to the position of attaché)
new agents as a civil servant: • Florent Kling (sworn in on August 27
                                                      2021 and appointed as Attaché)
• Anna Magi (sworn on January 27) • Cristina Fernandes (sworn on
  2021 and appointed as editor) October 1, 2021 and appointed as editor
• Christine Andres (sworn on date of editor)
  April 28, 2021 and appointed as
  head of studies)




                                      102
2 Organization of the CNPD

At the end of 2019, the CNPD reorganized its departments The organization chart below is in effect
and has adapted its organization chart to better since January 1, 2020.
  to be able to carry out its missions and to facilitate the
readability of its activities and organization.



                                 COLLEGE OF THE NATIONAL COMMISSION
                                   FOR DATA PROTECTION

                                                                                     Secretary(ies) of the College
                                                                                    of the National Commission
             Data Protection Officer
                                                                                       Relationship Manager
                                                                                  european and international
 Services




              SENSIBI- COMPLIANCE GUIDANCE COMPLAINTS- ADMINISTRATIVE INVESTIGATIONS-
              TATION TATION TATION



                                                                                                      Reception
            Communication Requests Reviews Analyzes Complaints Controls &
               External National Impact Info Secretariat

            Awareness Complaints
                                    Notice Resource Codes
                  & European Audits
                                legal Conduct human
              Training
 Units




            Legal watch Lines Notifications Accounting
                    & Direct Certifications of Violations &
            technological thematic data finance

            Internal IT collaborations
                                Transfers
              Research                                                                                      &
                                third country
             & Logistics Innovation




                                                             103
RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
                          AND OPERATION




                 3 Relative management report
                             to the financial statements for the 2021 financial year

          The Commission
        national for the A new organization chart established the Covid-19 pandemic and its repercussions
data protection on the basis of significant experiences on the activities of the CNPD,
(CNPD) had adopted in collected during the first but especially by the delivery in July 2021,
May 2020 a document year under the GDPR regime of the first decisions taken under
      entitled “Strategy and adopted by the College of Article 41 of the law of August 1, 2018 on
                               CNPD in January 2020, provided for the organization of the National Commission for
       and program of
                               in addition, a strengthening of data protection and the general regime
 work 2020-2022 » him
                               staff aiming to achieve 62 on data protection, some of which
   allowing for better full-time positions starting with financial penalties.
   plan, coordinate 2023. However, given the reduction
  and monitor its activities of the allocation allocated to the With regard to expenditure for the 2021 financial year, there
     during the CNPD period for the 2021 financial year and should be noted that certain figures cannot be
related and to improve following, the recruitments thus be considered as representative because
  thus the management of its planned had to be postponed, in particular the health crisis and the measures
              resources. the total authorized strength for which result therefrom.
                               2021 therefore remaining at the level
                               reached in 2020, i.e. 54 If the health crisis resulted in
                               full-time equivalents. a decrease in certain categories of
                                                                  expenses, related legal fees
                 Being in the middle of the period with the sanctions imposed by the CNPD
                 reference covered by the document mentioned have, for their part, generated additional expenditure
                 upstream, the year 2020 was of course marked by considerable comments.




                                                     104
THE BUDGET


I
      he CNPD budget for the 2021 financial year amounted to €7,200,000, i.e.
      a decrease of 6% compared to the budget of the previous year. The reduction
      of €467,224 compared to 2020 mainly results from the fact that the forecasts
budgets relating to staff costs, provided when drawing up the 2021 budget by
the State Personnel and Organization Management Center (CGPO), were largely located in
below the expected costs.



                                   EXPENSES


AT
       During the 2021 financial year, the total expenditure of the public institution amounted
       to €7,472,869 compared to €6,336,137 in 2020, an increase of 18%,
       thus exceeding the budgeted expenditure by €272,869.

Exceeding the credits granted and which is not to be confused with the result
negative operating income in the amount of €224,517, mainly from legal fees
in relation to appeals against financial penalties imposed by the CNPD
in three of its decisions delivered in 2021.




                                               105
RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
         AND OPERATION




                                                        2.1. Overheads
1. FIXED ASSETS
                                                        The aforementioned progression stems essentially-
In compliance with article 46 of the law of August 1st, the costs of fees, and more particularly
2018 on the organization of the Commission for non-existent legal fees in
national for data protection and of the 2020.
general data protection regime
providing that “the CNPD accounts Indeed, and apart from the rent and the charges
are held according to the rules of rental accounting in the amount of €611,163, the costs
business", expenses relating to legal fees amounting to €284,876,
the acquisition of furniture, software and represents the largest share of the costs
computer equipment were accounted general. These are the costs
in the balance sheet of the public institution; relating to the three actions brought against
amortization being recorded among the costs of decisions accompanied by financial penalties
Operating. pronounced by the CNPD in 2021.

In 2021, the additional furniture needed In addition to the maintenance costs of the
as part of the development of new CNPD premises in the amount of €87,390 per
offices generated an expense of €10,410, compared to €42,335 in 2020, costs which at the time
compared to €70,644 in 2020. and taking into account the move in June in
                                                        2020, actually only covered six months.
Expenses for the acquisition of
new IT equipment is Expenditure relating to equipment
amounted to €4,405, while in 2020 and and office supplies, document costs
taking into account the reinforcement commitments, as well as postage and tele-
the related costs were €21,681. communication amounting to respectively
                                                        €14,975, €6,869 and €10,934 remained at
2. OPERATING COSTS same level as in 2020.

Operating costs amounted to As for professional fees, they include
€1,188,318 compared to €806,279 in 2020, i.e. in addition to the legal fees mentioned in
an increase of €382,039 respectively upstream, expenses relating to the holding of
47%, thus exceeding the budget forecast accounting books amounting to €5,850 as well as
initial in the amount of €994,048. only to the review of accounts whose costs are
                                                        amounted to €5,910.




                                         106
Other general operating expenses 2.3. IT costs
in the amount of €22,593, including in particular
insurance, electricity and IT costs rose in 2021
than babysitting amounting to respectively- €117,465 compared to €63,261 in 2020 while
ment €10,758, €4,579 and €4,558, remained below the budget appropriation
stable, and this taking into account the moving expenses granted in the amount of €156,293. This will
payment of €30,448 included in the balance of compensation results firstly from the fee due to
account in 2020. from 2021 at the Center des technologies de
                                                  information from the State for the provision
2.2. Communication and public relations of IT licenses, devices
                                                  telephones and other equipment, and whose costs
As a result of the health crisis, all related amounts amounted to €88,540.
meetings and conferences abroad were
systematically replaced by video- Gold, this considerable increase could be
conferences so that the travel expenses, mitigated due to the termination of com-
of representation and public relations under the agreement of the contract concluded with the company
in the amount of €2,751 remained largely “eProceed”, the company that hosted the tool
below the “CNPD Compliance Support Tool” budget forecasts, develop- ment
amounting to €52,000 as expenses incurred by the CNPD in cooperation with the
generated in 2020 and amounting to €9,002. LIST (Luxembourg Institute of Science and
                                                  Technology) and the Media and
Communication and publication costs Communications. The related costs are
remained stable compared to 2020, while high in 2020 at €54,405 and were therefore not
limited to the publication costs of the Report no longer due for the year 2021.
annual 2020 amounting to €9,146 as well as the
announcements and insertions amounting to €8,030, As regards the maintenance of
to which are added various other purchases of equipment and other IT costs,
advertising services in the amount of €4,771. it should be noted that the related expenses are
                                                  remained stable compared to those of the financial year
Due to the health crisis, no 2020.
awareness campaign on
data protection could not be organized
see, so that the expenses borne by this
position, as for the 2020 financial year, were
reduced to zero.




                                                         107
RESOURCES, STRUCTURES
         AND OPERATION




3. PERSONNEL COSTS 4. OTHER COSTS

The remuneration of staff has This is in this case the costs generated by
raised in 2021 to €6,199,267 compared to the service car in the amount of €6,478
€5,387,440 in 2020. This increase is due compared to €4,242 in 2020. This variation
reinforcement of personnel carried out mid and end results from a recalculation in favor of the CNPD from
2020 and during 2021. monthly rent following a renegotiation with
                                                       retroactive effect of the leasing contract based on the
Despite a considerable increase in the distances actually covered. It follows
headcount increased at the end of the year and despite the fact that in 2020, the balance of this item included a
fact that the estimates made by the CGPO amounted to €2,487, reimbursed to the CNPD following
were well below the costs for said renegotiation.
what to expect, the actual expenses
only exceeded the budget forecasts The depreciation of furniture and equipment
in the amount of €51,889, this due to the IT event recorded for an amount
that the recruitment of six additional staff of €44,024 follows that of the investments
has been staggered over the whole of 2021. and represents an increase of
                                                       16% compared to €37,993 for the 2020 financial year.
In addition to the four Commissioners, the framework
of permanent staff included at 31 Added to this are bank charges and charges
December 2021: assimilated to the amount of €609.

• 43 treatment group agents or
  A1 allowance, including 15 civil servants,
• 1 employee from indemnity group A2 as well as
• 5 agents from the treatment or compensation group
  unit B1 including 4 civil servants.

Apart from remuneration, the costs of
staff still include an amount
of €19,239 representing the expenses
related to staff training. There
increase compared to 2020 in expenditure
in question follows the increase in the number of
service employees.




                                        108
THE RECIPES


S
    f the CNPD does not have revenue in the proper sense of the term, it can nevertheless and by virtue of
    of article 47 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for
    data protection and the general data protection regime, impose
royalties within the framework of its powers of authorization and consultation.

Thus the receipts were limited to the rent relating to the subletting of the sites of
parking included in the lease relating to the head office located in the basement of the NAOS building and amounting to
€32,538. To this is added an amount of €1,000 collected pursuant to Article 3 of the Regulations
No. 7/2020 of April 3, 2020 of the National Commission for Data Protection setting the
amount and terms of payment of royalties under its powers of authorization
and consultation, for the analysis of a request for prior approval.



                  OPERATING INCOME


VS
       taking into account the annual allocation of €7,200,000, including the National Commission for
       data protection has benefited from the State in application of article 47
       of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018, the negative operating result of the establishment
public amounted to €224,517 as of December 31, 2021.




                                               109
APPENDICES
6 APPENDICES




The annexes can be downloaded from the CNPD website at
https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/publications/rapports/index.html




                                                                P152
       OPINIONS AND DECISIONS • Opinion relating to bill no. 7691 on
         P117 amendment: 1° of the Penal Procedure Code
       • Opinion relating to draft law n°7643 on nale, 2° of the New Code of Procedure
         open data and the reuse of civil rights, 3° of the law of July 7, 1971 on
         information from the public sector and relating to law enforcement and administrative matters, institutions
         to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on experts, translators and interpreters
         setting of objective, transparent and sworn criteria supplementing the provisions
         and verifiable to calculate the total legal amount relating to the swearing in of ex-
         royalties for supply and losses, translators and interpreters, 4° of the law
         authorizations for the reuse of documents amended on December 9, 1976 relating to the
         held by public sector bodies organization of notaries, 5° of the amended law of
         and public enterprises. April 20, 1977 on gambling and betting
         (Deliberation n°1/2021 of 01/20/2021) sportsmen, 6° of the amended law of March 7, 1980
                                                                on judicial organization, 7° of the amended law
         P125 of 7 November 1996 organizing
       • Additional opinion relating to the project of the courts of the administrative order, 8° of
         law no. 7425 on: 1° transposition of the law of 30 December 1981 on compensation
         Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the Parliament
         European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 rante, 9° of the amended law of 15 March 1983
         amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on arms and ammunition, 10° of the amending law
         relating to the control of the acquisition and the trust of March 2, 1984 relating to the compensation
         possession of weapons; 2° modification of the Code for certain victims of bodily injury
         criminal, and 3° repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 rels resulting from an offense and the repression
         concerning the transport and trade of fraudulent insolvency, 11° of the amended law
         explosive materials. of 4 December 1990 organizing
         (Deliberation n°2/2021 of 4/02/2021) of the service of judicial officers, 12° of the law




                                               112
of 31 January 1998 approving the ser- 1963 setting the salary regime for
  vices of adoption and definition of the obligations civil servants of the State.
  their responsibility, 13° of the law of 6 May 1999 (Deliberation n°7/AV6/2021 of 03/03/2021)
  relating to penal mediation and relating to
  dification of various provisions a) of P208
  amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization • Second additional opinion relating to the
  b) the social insurance code, draft law no. 7498 amending
  14° of the law of 12 November 2002 relating to the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Police
  to private guarding and grand-ducal activities.
  surveillance, 15° of the amended law of 7 June (Deliberation n°8/AV7/2021 of 3/03/2021)
  2012 on legal attachés.
  (Deliberation n°3/AV3/2021 of 02/10/2021) P215
                                                    • Opinion relating to bill no. 7751 amending
  P188 1° the Social Security Code; 2° the Code
• Opinion relating to bill no. 7768 on labour; 3° the amended law of 15 December
  modification of the modified law of July 17, 1993 determining the personnel framework
  2020 on measures to combat the corruption of administrations, services and
  Covid-19 pandemic. social security jurisdictions; and 4° the
  (Deliberation n°5/AV4/2021 of 02/16/2021) amended law of July 28, 2000 having as its
                                                      purpose the coordination of the legal regimes of
  P195 pension.
• Opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation (Deliberation n°9/AV8/2021 of 03/03/2021)
  relating to the determination and organization
  training for technical staff and P218
  administrative documents for the different forms • Opinion relating to draft law no. 7784 on
  sports activities. modification of the amended law of July 17
  (Deliberation No. 6/AV5/2021 of 02/24/2021) 2020 on measures to combat
                                                      Covid-19 pandemic.
  P199 (Deliberation n°10/AV9/2021 of 8/03/2021)
• Opinion on draft law n°7632 on
  transposition of directive (EU) 2018/1972 P220
  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 • Opinion on draft law no. 7741 on
  December 2018 establishing the code of amendments 1° to the amended law of 18
  European electronic communications July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police; 2°
  and amending the amended law of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on
  of 30 May 2005 relating to: 1) organization of the reorganization of the Intelligence Service
  the Luxembourg Regulatory Institute; of the State; 3° of the Penal Code.
  2) modification of the amended law of June 22 (Deliberation n°10/AV10/2021 of 03/16/2021)




                                                           113
6 APPENDICES




      P260 May 17, 2017 laying down related obligations
    • Opinion on draft law n°7795 on the duty of care with regard to the
      modification of the modified law of 17 July supply chain for
      2020 on measures to combat Union importers who import
      Covid-19 pandemic. tin, tantalum and tungsten, their
      (Deliberation n°14/AV11/2021 of 03/29/2021) ores and gold from areas of
                                                            conflict or high risk.
      P266 (Deliberation n°19/AV15/2021 of 05/14/2021)
    • Third additional opinion relating to the
      bill n°7498 amending P277
      the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Police • Opinion relating to bill no. 7808
      grand ducal. relating to the screening strategy for
      (Deliberation n°16/AV12/2021 of April 28, 2021) Covid-19 virus in structures for
                                                            vulnerable people and in networks
      P271 aid and care.
    • Opinion on the draft regulation (Deliberation n°20/AV16/2021 of 05/28/2021)
      grand-ducal relating to the composition and
      the operation of the committee P281
      advisory for the assessment of the • Opinion relating to bill no. 7797
      video surveillance. amending the amended law of
      (Deliberation No. 17/AV13/2021 of 07/05/2021) July 17, 2020 on measures to combat
                                                            the Covid-19 pandemic.
      P273 (Deliberation n°21/AV17/2021 of 05/28/2021)
    • Opinion on draft law n°7763 1. on
      introduction of a works fund; 2.P282
      amending the amended law of 16 May 1975 • Opinion relating to the draft grand-
      laying down the status of the co-ownership of the ducals prescribing a general census
      buildings built and the draft regulation of the population, housing and
      grand-ducal amending the Grand Duchy's building regulations on 1 June 2021
      ducal prescribing implementing measures and governmental amendments.
      of the law of May 16, 1975 on the status of (Deliberation n°23/AV18/2021 of June 1, 2021)
      co-ownership of buildings.
      (Deliberation n°18/AV14/2021 of 05/14/2021) P300
                                                          • Opinion on draft law n°7836 on
      P275 modification of the amended law of July 17
    • Opinion relating to draft law n°7787 relating to the 2020 on measures to combat
      implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/821 Covid-19 pandemic.
      of the European Parliament and of the Council of (Deliberation n°24/AV19/2021 of June 8, 2021)




                                            114
P302 and public companies.
• Additional opinion relating to the draft (Deliberation n°28/AV23/2021 of 6/08/2021)
  Grand-Ducal regulation prescribing a
  general population census, P314
  housing and buildings in Grand- • Second additional opinion on
  Duchy on November 8, 2021. to draft law n°7425 on weapons and
  (Deliberation n°25/AV20/2021 of 2/07/2021) ammunition and bearing: 1st transposition of
                                                        Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the Parliament
  European and Council P307 of March 24, 2021
• Additional notice relating to the fine- relating to the control of the acquisition and
  government comments on the weapons possession bill; 2° modification of the Code
  No. 7126 relating to criminal administrative sanctions, and 3° repeal of the law of April 20, 1881
  and the expansion of com- concerning the transport and trade of
  skills of municipal officials. explosive materials.
  (Deliberation n°26/AV21/2021 of July 9, 2021) (Deliberation n°29/AV24/2021 of October 1
                                                        2021)
  P310
• Additional opinion relating to the P320 project
  law n°7348 relating to inactive accounts, • Opinion relating to draft law n°7818 on
  inactive safes and contracts modification of the Consumer Code
  dormant insurance company and amending: 1. for the purposes of transposition of 1. the directive
  the amended law of 23 December 1998 on (EU) 2019/770 of the European Parliament and of the
  creation of a Supervisory Board meeting of May 20, 2019 relating to certain
  the financial sector; and 2. the amended law of 7 pects concerning supply contracts
  December 2015 on the insurance sector. digital content and digital services
  (Deliberation n°27/AV22/2021 of August 6, 2021) 2. Directive (EU) 2019/771 of the Par-
                                                        European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019
  P312 relating to certain aspects concerning the
• Additional notice relating to the amendment of contracts for the sale of goods, modifying the
  parliamentarian to draft law n°7643 on ment (EU) 2017/2394 and directive 2009/22/
  open data and reuse of EC and repealing Directive 1999/44/EC.
  information from the public and relative sector (Deliberation n°30/AV25/2021 of 1/10/2021)
  to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on
  setting objective, transparent criteria P328
  and verifiable to calculate the total amount • Opinion relating to bill n°7762 modifying the
  royalties for the supply and the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of
  authorizations for the reuse of taxi services documents.
  held by public sector bodies (Deliberation n°31/AV26/2021 of 1/10/2021)




                                                             115
6 APPENDICES




      P339 P382
    • Opinion relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation • Opinion relating to draft law no. 7924 on
      on the organization of internal systems modification of the amended law of 17 July
      prison centers. 2020 on anti-corruption measures
      (Deliberation n°32/AV27/2021 of 1/10/2021) Covid-19 pandemic.
                                                               (Deliberation n°53/AV31/2021 of 8/10/2021)
      P352
    • Opinion relating to bill n°7897 bearing P389
      amendment: 1° of the amended law of 17 July • Additional opinion relating to the draft
      2020 on measures to combat law n°7924 amending the law
      Covid-19 pandemic; 2° of the amended law of 17 July 2020 on the measures of
      of March 8, 2018 relating to establishments combating the Covid-19 pandemic.
      hospitals and hospital planning; 3° (Deliberation n°54/AV32/2021 of 10 December
      of the amended law of January 22, 2021 relating to: 1° 2021)
      modification of articles L. 234-51, L. 234-52
      and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code; 2nd derogation P396
      temporary to the provisions of articles L. 234- • Opinion relating to bill no. 7805 on
      51, L. 234-52 and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code. creation of a parking card
      (Deliberation n°34/AV28/2021 of 10/12/2021) for people with disabilities and relating to
                                                               draft Grand-Ducal regulation 1° setting the
      P356 station card model and content
    • Opinion on the amendments to the proposal for people with disabilities as well as
      revision of Chapter II of the Constitution that the request and the medical certificate in
      (parliamentary file number: 7755) view of obtaining this card; 2° amending
      (Deliberation n°48/AV29/2021 of 29/10/2021) the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 August
                                                               1993 relating to taxed warnings,
      P360 Lockouts for non-resident offenders
    • Opinion relating to draft law n°7674 concerning teeth as well as to the measures for the execution of the
      organization of access to knowledge legislation on the impoundment of
      of its origins in the context of vehicle adoption and in terms of license points.
      or medically assisted procreation (Deliberation n°55/AV33/2021 of 10 December
      with third-party donors. 2021)
      (Deliberation n°52/AV30/2021 of 29/11/2021)




                                              116
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
                                                        data relating to bill n°7643 on data
                                                        open and re-use of public sector information
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, and relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining
letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27 objective, transparent and verifiable criteria for calculating
2016 relating to the protection of persons the total amount of fees for the supply and
with regard to the processing of data authorizations for the reuse of documents held by the
of a personal nature and to the free movement of public sector bodies and public undertakings.
these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Deliberation n°1/2021 of 01/20/2021)
(hereinafter the "general regulation on the protection
data” or the “GDPR”), to which
refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Public Affairs (hereinafter the “draft regulation
data protection and the general Grand-Ducal system”).
on data protection, the Commission
National Data Protection Act (the purpose of the bill is to transpose
after designated the "National Commission" in national law Directive (EU) 2019/1024
or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20
Member State law, national parliament, June 2019 regarding open data
government and other institutions and reuse of industry information
bodies regarding public legislative measures (recast) (hereinafter the "Directive") as well as
and administrative measures relating to the protection of that to repeal and replace the amended law
rights and freedoms of natural persons to of 4 December 2007 on the reuse of
with regard to the treatment”. public sector information.

By letter dated July 13, 2020, Mr. The draft Grand-Ducal regulation aims to
the Minister of Communications and Media to execute the provisions of article 7,
invited the National Commission to comment on paragraph 3 of the bill. He determines the
on bill n°7643 on objective, transparent and verifiable data criteria
open and the reuse of information from the to calculate the total amount of royalties
public sector (hereinafter the "draft law"). Not applicable by industry bodies
letter dated July 15, 2020, Mr. public required, under the bill, to generate
Minister of Communications and Media has revenue intended to cover a share
invited the National Commission to make a substantial decision on the costs associated with carrying out
on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on their public service missions as well as
setting of objective, transparent criteria and public enterprises, as defined in
verifiable to calculate the total amount of Article 2, point 3, of the bill.
fees for the supply and authorizations
reuse of documents held by The CNPD intends to limit its observations to
public sector bodies and businesses with regard to situations where documents or




                                                               117
6 APPENDICES




    public information made available to national rules on access to
    purposes of reuse that would include documents. ".
    personal data within the meaning of
    Article 4(1) GDPR. Recital 52 of the directive specifies
                                                                                  that it “does not affect the protection of
    The National Commission notes with interest natural persons with regard to the processing
    the extension of the scope of application with regard to personal data guaranteed by
    of “open data and reuse of Union law and the law of the Member States,
    information from the public sector” by the article in particular the [RGPD] […], but also and there
    1, subsection (1), of the bill. The CNPD including any provision of national law
    recalls in this regard recital 154 of the supplement. ".
    GDPR which states that “public access to
    official documents can be considered as It is therefore necessary to find a fair
    being in the public interest”. The Commission balances the fundamental right of access
    can only subscribe to the objectives of information1 and the fundamental right to
    pursued by this legislative initiative which protects personal data,
    contributes to making the right for people more effective within the limits of the rules applicable in terms of
    citizens to learn about public affairs. right of access provided for by national legislation.
    At the same time, she cares about
    reach the definition of a legal framework This balance must be sought when a
    where the reuse of public data and document containing personal data
    the protection of privacy and personal data is likely to be communicated.
    of a personal nature find a balance.
    It is important to it that data protection The rules for access to documents
    contributes to building a solid legal framework relating to personal data
    and demanding for better transparency of
    public action. As a preliminary point, it should be noted that,
                                                                                  as the authors point out in the presentation
    It is clear from recital 23 of the directive that reasons accompanying the bill, a
    this one “imposes an obligation on the Member States” document which is not accessible, cannot
    to make all existing documents not be made available to the public through
    reusable, unless there are national open data rules”.
    relating to access to documents does not limit or
    do not exclude this access or subject to the others Article 1, paragraph (3) of the draft law
    exceptions provided for in this directive” indicates that the “law is based on the rules
    and that it “is based on the access rules in force and does not affect them in any way”.
    force in the Member States and does not modify According to the commentary on the articles, "if for




    1
        This fundamental right derives in particular from the right to freedom of expression, the right to good administration and the right of access to documents.



                                                            118
data protection grounds for legal entities providing public services”. There
access rules exclude access to documents, CNPD wonders whether the fields of application
these documents do not fall within the respective scope of the bill and the law of 14
application of this bill”. According to September 2018 cover the same entities.
the authors of the bill, the access rules
general rules stem from the amended law of 14 Consequently, the CNPD wonders about
September 2018 relating to an administration to the existence of applicable access rules
transparent and open and are supplemented by documents held by companies
sectoral or specific, public access rules that are not related to the exercise
resulting in particular from an administrative activity. In the absence of
                                                       such access rules, the distribution of documents
- the amended law of 25 November 2005 relating to personal data
  concerning public access to information should in principle be excluded, unless the
  in terms of the environment; controller cannot demonstrate
- the amended law of 31 July 2005 providing that such a data processing operation,
  approval of the Convention on access to i.e. the transmission of data to
  information, public participation of a personal nature to a third party, can be
  decision-making process and access to justice justified with respect to the relevant provisions
  in terms of the environment, made in Aarhus in terms of data protection. He could
  (Denmark), June 25, 1998; for example, to be able to harvest the
- the Grand-Ducal regulation of 8 June 1979 relating to the consent of the persons concerned.
  the procedure to be followed by the administrations
  state and municipal. However, the CNPD recalls recital 154
                                                       of the GDPR which provides that “[t]he data
Article 1, paragraph (1), of the draft law refers to personal data appearing in
“existing documents held by or- documents held by a public authority
public sector bodies” as well as a public list or body should be able to be
of “public enterprises” and “data made public by the said authority or the said
of research”, subject to the exceptions organization if this communication is planned
and conditions defined in paragraphs (2) to (7). by Union law or the law of the Member State
However, the aforementioned law of 14 September 2018 aims, under which the public authority or body
in its Article 1, paragraph 1, access to the public. […]”. Thus, in principle, communication
“Documents held by the administrations of such documents should be provided for by a
and services of the State, the municipalities, the unions- legal provision.
councils, public establishments
placed under the supervision of the State or under the The National Commission understands that
launches municipalities as well as persons Article 1, paragraph (2), point 8° of the draft




                                                              119
6 APPENDICES




    law faithfully reflects article 1, communication of documents containing
    paragraph (2), letter h) of the directive. Said personal data.
    provision of the directive repeats the terms
    of recital 154, in fine, of the GDPR. The CNPD In addition, in the absence of a legal provision
    also understands that the specific room for maneuver within the meaning of Article 1 paragraph (2),
    of the legislator is limited in terms of point 8° of the bill applicable to data
    faithful transposition of a European directive. of a personal nature contained in the
    Nevertheless, the European directives refer to a document made accessible by virtue of the rules
    harmonization of national rules without access, this document may fall within the scope
    however, require uniformity in the application of the bill.
    ci and thus allow the legislator to adapt
    the transposition standards to the specificities Therefore, when the sectoral legislation
    national. The CNPD draws attention to the applicable to the document remains silent, that is-
    scope of the said provision of the bill, which is to say that it does not explicitly exclude the
    provides that the reuse of personal data,
                                                          the CNPD is concerned about the risk of disclosure of
    “[…] law does not apply […] to documents of a personal data nature or to the violation of
    access to which is excluded or limited pursuant to the privacy of natural persons.
    access rules for protection reasons
    personal data, and to The CNPD recalls recital 154 of the GDPR
    parts of documents accessible by virtue of the aforementioned that “[t]his legal provisions of-
    of the said rules which contain data should reconcile public access to documents
    of a personal nature, including the reuse of official documents and the reuse of
    been defined by law as being incompatible with the public sector, on the one hand, and the right to
    with the legislation concerning the protection of the protection of personal data
    natural persons with regard to the processing, on the other hand, and can therefore provide for the
    personal data or necessary reconciliation with the right to protection
    as infringing the protection of the protection of personal data in
    privacy and integrity of the person under the [GDPR]”. It is therefore up to the legislator
    concerned”. to weigh the public interest related to access and
                                                          reuse of data in connection with
    It cannot be ruled out that the access rules are in the interests of natural persons.
    sectors, such as those identified more
    above, can provide access to documents On the one hand, the National Commission recommends
    containing personal data, therefore calls on the legislator to review the rules
    whereas the general access rules deriving from access, in particular sector-specific access rules
    of the aforementioned law of September 14, 2018 limit the rielles, in order to ensure that these exclude,




                                           120
where relevant, access to documents The rules applicable to the disclosure and
ments containing personal data to the reuse of personal data
personnel or that these provide for at least the ano-staff
nymization of personal data.
                                                     Since this bill in no way affects
On the other hand, the CNPD considers the access rules in force necessary, the CNPD reminds
to analyze the processing of data to that it is quite possible that a document
personal character likely to be targeted is accessible under these access rules
by rules of access and invites the legislator, but that it is not therefore reusable
if necessary, to modify the legislation within the meaning of the text under consideration, in view of
relating thereto, in particular in particular to the rules for the protection of
environment and personal data sector.
from the agricultural world in order to include, if
necessary, a limitation as to access to or Indeed, Article 1, paragraph (4), point 10°
publication of personal data. of the bill provides that "this Act
                                                     is without prejudice to the provisions of law
Finally, when personal data on the protection of personal data
personal are nevertheless likely to be personal”. It follows from this provision that,
made public on the basis of the access rules when the reuse of a document containing
and in the absence of legislative provisions personal data is possible,
preventing their reuse, it could prove to be the data controllers – that is to say
necessary for a data controller, the entity making the document available and
that is to say the organization providing the entity wishing to reuse the said document
the document, to carry out an impact analysis – continue to be bound by the provisions
relating to data protection within the meaning applicable to the protection of
of article 35 of the RGPD before putting a data, in the first place by the provisions
document available in which the provision arising from the GDPR and the law of 1 August 2018
in the balance of the public interest and the interests relating to the organization of the National Commission
of the persons concerned is operated. Thus, for the protection of data and the regime
when assessing risks to general data protection rights.
and freedoms of the persons concerned reveals
that the communication of the document represents In the explanatory memorandum accompanying the
a high risk, the body should abstain from the bill, the authors report a future
to make the document available, unless the national strategy for the promotion of
as measures to mitigate the risk, Open data in Luxembourg which will be defined
in particular by anonymizing the document around, among other elements, the concept of
published, can be taken. “open by design and by default”.




                                                            121
6 APPENDICES




    This means that data holders in accordance with Article 7 of the Bill and the
    authorities should design such data draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the Commission
    in order to make them reusable. national body regrets that the bill does not provide
    The presence of personal data does not mean that this process is applied in a
    in a dataset may hamper its generality to in-scope documents
    publication by the organization and its reuse by the application of the bill.
    a third.
                                                          The definition of anonymization in article 2,
    In terms of data protection, point 7° of the bill must be read together
    pursuant to Article 25 of the GDPR, those responsible with the provisions of the GDPR, and in particular
    processing must apply the protection with recital 26 of the GDPR:
    data by design and protection
    default data, in particular through "To determine whether a natural person
    compliance with the principle of minimization of is identifiable, it is necessary to take into account
    data, that is to say that the “data into consideration all the means
    personal character must be […] adequate, reasonably likely to be used
    relevant and limited to what is necessary by the controller or by any
    with regard to the purposes for which they are another person to identify the person
    processed” as provided for in Article 5, paragraph physical directly or indirectly, such
    (1), letter c), GDPR. than targeting. To establish whether means
                                                          are reasonably likely to be
    Therefore, the organization or company used to identify a natural person,
    public should prepare the documents should be taken into consideration
    from their creation with a minimum of data all the objective factors, such as the
    of a personal nature, in view of the cost of identification and the time required
    part of the respect of the principles of protection to this one, taking into account the technologies
    of the data and on the other hand of the purpose of the available at the time of the treatment and of
    reuse of information. Thus, one more the evolution of these. […]”
    large number of documents could
    potentially end up in the field The European Committee for the Protection of
    application of this bill. Data (EDPB) has considered, in its lines
                                                          guidelines 4/2019 relating to article 25 of the
    In this respect, despite the fact that the GDPR anonymization on data protection from the
    of personal data is defined design and protection of data by
    in article 2, point 7° of the bill and that the defects, that the anonymization of data to
    costs of a possible anonymization can personal character is an alternative to the
    be eligible for removal pricing as long as the items




                                            122
relevant contextual factors have been taken into account in such a way that the person concerned does not
and that the probability as well as the severity of the is not or no longer identifiable. The [GDPR] does not apply
risk, including the risk of re-identification, therefore does not apply to the processing of
are regularly reassessed. such anonymous information, including to
                                                                                statistical or research purposes. »
The Article 29 Working Party, in its opinion
n° 5/2014 on anonymization techniques, Therefore, at the end of the process
explains that anonymization is no longer about data to be
                                                                                personal character and the GDPR as well as the
“anonymisation is the result of processing other data protection rules
personal data in order to prevent, personal data are no longer
irreversibly, any identification. This applicable.
doing so, those responsible for processing the
data must take into account several elements When the personal data
ments, taking into consideration the whole seem nevertheless essential to the
means ‘likely to be reasonable’ understanding of the document, under the
ment implemented’ for identification purposes the data minimization principle, it
(either by the data controller or by agreement to limit them to what is necessary.
one-third)”3.
                                                                                Recital 52 of the directive specifies
Thus, the CNPD stresses that it is important that the particular "that the reuse of data to
choice of anonymization techniques is made personal character is only lawful if the principle
based on a case-by-case analysis taking into account the purpose limitation set out in Article 5,
into account the context of the data, all in paragraph 1, point b), and in article 6 of the [GDPR]
making sure to report the data effectively is respected. ".
anonymous and thus escape the application of the
GDPR. Under Article 9, paragraph 1, of the bill,
                                                                                the “reuse of documents can be
When the anonymization is done in the rules subject to [some] conditions provided that
of art, according to recital 26 of the GDPR these are objective, proportionate,
                                                                                non-discriminatory and justified on the basis
“[…] there is therefore no reason to apply the principles of an objective of general interest”. The Commission
national data protection guidelines considers that the use of licenses,
anonymous information, i.e. information to the extent that it also bears
information not concerning a physical person on the conditions of reuse of data
identified or identifiable identity, nor to the personal data contained in a
of a personal nature made anonymous of documents, could make it possible to reduce



2
    EDPB, GDPR Article 25 Guidelines 4/2019 on Data Protection by Design and Data Protection by Default,
    version of November 13, 2019 submitted for public consultation, not yet definitively adopted.
2
    “Article 29” working group on data protection, Opinion n°05/2014 on anonymization techniques, WP216, 0829/14/FR.



                                                                                           123
6 APPENDICES




    indirectly the risks for people The Grand-Ducal regulation does not call for
    concerned by imposing guarantees no particular comments from the
    additional to be provided by the entity wishing CNPD.
    reuse the document.
                                                         Thus decided in Belvaux on January 20
    However, the National Commission calls for 2021.
    caution regarding the provision of
    personal data in view of the risk The National Commission for the Protection of
    reuse for incompatible purposes by data
    third parties in that the National Commission
    notes that the public entity has only influence Tine A. Larsen
    limited on this reuse. President
                                                         
    Regardless of these considerations, the Thierry Lallemang
    data controller who would like Commissioner
    reuse documents containing data
    of a personal nature should also check Christophe Buschmann
    if the processing of data of a Commissioner nature
    personnel contained in the document may
    comply with the obligations in Marc Lemmer
    data protection matters by checking Commissioner
    in particular the necessity and proportionality
    of the data processing envisaged in connection
    with the intended purpose.




                                           124
Additional opinion of the National Commission for the
                                                         data protection relating to bill no. 7425 on:
                                                         1° transposition of Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the Parliament
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph (1), European and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending the directive
letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 91/477/EEC of the Council relating to the control of the acquisition and
2016 on the protection of persons from the possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
physical with regard to the processing of the repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and
personal data and the free trade in explosive materials.
circulation of this data, and repealing the (Deliberation n°2/2021 of 02/4/2021)
Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the
data protection) (hereinafter the “GDPR
“), to which article 7 of the law of August 1 refers
2018 on the organization of the Commission To the extent that some of these fines
National Data Protection and Data Protection Authority relate to items that have been
general data protection regime, mentioned by the National Commission in its
the National Commission for the Protection of Opinions of July 8, 2019, the CNPD is acting on its own
data (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission to notify them.
Nationale” or the “CNPD”) “advises,
in accordance with the law of the Member State, As a preliminary remark, it welcomes that
the national parliament, the government and the authors of the bill have standardized the
other institutions and organizations about terminology used with regard to the
legislative and administrative measures designation of the file held by the Minister having
relating to the protection of rights and freedoms within its jurisdiction the law under opinion (hereinafter
natural persons vis-à-vis the “Minister”) in accordance with Article 15 (13
treatment ". initial) of the bill, as it had been
                                                         suggested by the National Commission.
On July 8, 2019, the CNPD notified the
bill n°7425 on: 1st transposition However, she would like to go into more detail
of Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the Parliament on integrity checks (I), on the file
European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending weapons (II), on the medical certificate (III),
Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the on the register of arms (IV), and on the authority
control of the acquisition and holding of competent control in the event of access by
weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3° agents of the Customs Administration and
abrogation of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning excise duties in the arms file (V).
transport and trade of materials
explosives (hereinafter the "Bill"). 1. On the integrity check

The Committee on Justice adopted during Amendment n°14 inserts a new Article 14
of its meeting of May 27, 2020 a series entitled “Fitness check”, in
amendments to the bill. under which the Minister will conduct the investigation




                                                                125
6 APPENDICES




    administrative and will be, in the context of this, there is reason to question the articulation of the
    mission, required to process data relating to the provisions of the GDPR with those of the law of the 1st
    personnel initially collected and processed by August 2018 relating to the protection of persons
    the Grand-Ducal Police, by the Public Prosecutor with regard to the processing of data
    or by the State Intelligence Service (hereafter personal in criminal matters as well as
    after the “SRE”) for prevention and national security purposes.
    detection of criminal offences, investigations
    and proceedings in this regard or enforcement 1. On the processing carried out by the Minister
    criminal penalties. These initial processing operations within the framework of the administrative investigation
    are subject to the law of 1 August 2018 relating
    to the protection of natural persons to A. On the principle of legality
    with regard to the processing of data of the nature of the processing
    staff in criminal matters as well as in matters
    of national security. The CNPD welcomes the fact that the new article 14
                                                                                       of the bill under notice, from the point of view of
    It should be noted that the processing of legal security, constitutes the legal basis
    personal data implemented the administrative investigation carried out by the
    within the framework of the administrative investigation, Minister, in accordance with Article 6 paragraph
    as referred to in new article 14 of draft (3) of the GDPR.
    of law under notice, will be subject to the GDPR then
    that the purpose pursued by the Minister is a. On Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR
    the issuance of an authorization, a permit
    or authorization provided for by the bill under Indeed, it should be recalled that the processing
    notice. The purposes pursued by the Minister of personal data collected
    would therefore be foreign to the initial purposes and processed in the context of the execution
    stated above. a mission of public interest or falling within the
                                                                                       the exercise of official authority vested in
    Thus, although the purposes of the processing, the controller must rely on
    envisaged by Article 14 of the draft law, a legal basis in accordance with Article 6
    are for administrative purposes, the nature of paragraph (3) of the GDPR, read together with its
    even data transmitted to the Minister paragraph (1) letters c) and e)4 which provides that
    and then used to expedite the investigation “[t]he basis of the processing referred to in
    administrative remains identical to the nature of paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:
    data processed for the purposes of prevention and
    detection of criminal offences, investigations a. Union law; Or
    and prosecution or enforcement b. the law of the Member State to which the controller
    criminal penalties. In such a context, processing is subject.


    4
        Article 6, paragraph (1), letters c) and e) provides that: “Processing is lawful only if, and insofar as, at least one of the following conditions
        is met: (…) c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject; (…) e)
        the processing is necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
        controller; (…)”.



                                                                126
The purposes of the processing are defined In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies
  in this legal basis or, insofar as it should "(...) belong to Union law
  concerns the processing referred to in paragraph or the right of a Member State to determine the
  1, point e), are necessary for the fulfillment of the purpose of the processing. Moreover, this right for-
  of a mission of public interest or relating would specify the general conditions of this
  the exercise of official authority, of which the regulations governing the lawfulness of the processing of
  invested the controller. This personal data, establish the speci-
  legal basis may contain specific provisions to determine who is responsible
  specific to adapt the application of the processing, the type of personal data
  rules of this Regulation, among others: the personnel subject to the processing, the
  general conditions governing the legality of the persons concerned, the entities to which the
  processing by the controller; personal data may be
  the types of data that are the subject of the communication, the limitations of the purpose, the
  treatment; the people concerned; retention periods and other vi-
  entities to which the health data to guarantee lawful and fair processing (...)”.
  staff can be communicated and
  the purposes for which they may Recital (41) of the GDPR further states that
  being; purpose limitation; the durations of “[w]here this Regulation refers to
  conservation; and operations and procedures a legal basis or to a legislative measure,
  of processing, including measures aimed at this does not necessarily mean that
  to guarantee lawful and fair processing, such as the adoption of a legislative act by a parliament
  than those provided for in other situations is required, without prejudice to the obligations
  special treatment as provided under the Constitutional Order of
  Chapter IX. » the Member State concerned. However, this basis
                                                       legal or legislative measure should be
This article provides for a specific, clear and precise constraint and its application should be
related to the lawfulness of foreseeable data processing for litigants, in accordance with
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union
or for the performance of a task of European public interest and of the European Court of Rights
or within the exercise of public human authority. ".
with which the controller is responsible.
In these two scenarios, the basis and By virtue of the aforementioned provisions, these bases
the purposes of the data processing must legal should establish provisions
specifically be defined either by specific law aimed at determining, inter alia,
the European Union, or by State law the types of data processed, the persons
member to which the data controller concerned, the entities to which the data
is submitted. can be communicated and for what




                                                              127
6 APPENDICES




    purposes, retention periods of the right to data protection. This
    data or operations and procedures interference or limitation may be justified
    treatment. provided that she:

    However, and although the legal basis establishing - is provided for by a law accessible to
    the administrative inquiry specifies the types of persons concerned and foreseeable as to
    data processed, the persons concerned its repercussions, i.e. formulated with
    as well as the entities to which the data have sufficient precision;
    may be communicated and for what - is necessary in a democratic society
    purposes, the National Commission notes that, subject to the principle of proportion-
    certain elements relating to the treatment of ality;
    data are not sufficiently specified - respects the essential content of the right to
    or are not specified at all (e.g. data protection;
    the data retention period) in the - effectively meets the objectives
    law Project. of general interest or in need of protection
                                                                                    rights and freedoms of others.
          b. On the principles set out by the
             case law of the European Court i. On the first condition
             Human Rights and the Court
             Justice of the European Union According to the case law of the European Court
                                                                                  of human rights, an interference with the law
    The National Commission must emphasize that respect for private life is “not provided for by
    the fundamental importance of the principle of the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2) of
    lawfulness of the processing of data relating to the European Convention on the Rights of the
    personal which must be read in the light of man5, that if it is based on an article of the
    Article 8 paragraph (2) of the National Law Convention which presents certain
    European Convention on Human Rights concerning characteristics. The expression “provided for by
    the right to respect for private life, as well as the law” therefore implies, according to the case law of
    of Article 52 paragraphs (1) and (2) of the European Court of Human Rights
    Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union that domestic legislation must use terms
    European. In essence, these two articles, clear enough to indicate to all in a
    together with the constant case law of sufficient in what circumstances and under
    the European Court of Human Rights, what conditions it empowers the power
    retain that a processing of public data to resort to measures affecting
    carried out by a public authority may their rights protected by the Convention6. There
    constitute an interference with the right to domestic legislation must be “accessible to
    respect for privacy or limit the exercise of the persons concerned and foreseeable as to

    5
        Article 8 paragraph (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that: “There shall be no interference by a public authority
        in the exercise of this right only insofar as this interference is prescribed by law and that it constitutes a measure which, in a society
        democracy, is necessary for national security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country, the maintenance of order and the
        prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or morals, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others”.
    6
        CouEDH, Fernández Martínezc. Spain [GC], n°56030/07, para. 117.



                                                            128
its repercussions. A rule is predictable to allow them to make their arrangements in
“if it is formulated with consequent precision10.
sufficient to allow any person –
possibly benefiting from assistance This is why the Court
appropriate – to adapt one’s behavior”8 European Human Rights Council within
as well as "[t]he degree of precision required of the 'law', its case law affirms that 'domestic law
in this regard will depend on the subject in question. »9. must offer some protection against
                                                                               arbitrary attacks on public power
In order to fulfill these accessibility criteria and the rights guaranteed by Article 8 paragraph 1”11.
of foreseeability of the “law”, on the one hand, and thus Consequently, domestic legislation “must
limit any arbitrary behavior define the scope and procedures for exercising
and abusive on the part of public authorities, power with sufficient clarity – account
on the other hand, national law may therefore provide for the legitimate aim pursued – to provide
and provide a more specific framework for processing to the individual adequate protection against
of personal data made arbitrarily”12. The Court of Justice of the Union
by such authorities. This European legal framework considers that in the event of limitation of the
would also be a guarantor of the principle of protection of personal data
legal certainty for the benefit of individuals or the right to respect for private life
concerned, applicants for authorization, a legal text “must provide for clear rules and
permit or approval provided for in the draft regulations governing the scope and application of
law under notice. Legal certainty constitutes the measure in question and imposes a minimum
even a general principle of Union law of requirements so that persons whose
European Union, requiring in particular that the data have been retained have
regulations entailing consequences that are sufficiently guaranteed to protect
unfavorable to individuals is effectively clear their personal data
and precise and predictable application for staff against the risk of abuse as well as
litigants. The regulations must prevent any illicit access and use of
interested parties to know these data with precision”13.
the extent of the obligations it imposes on them,
must allow them to know without ambiguity Therefore, insofar as the processing of
their rights and obligations as well as their data implemented by the Minister in the


7
     CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55
     and CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.
8
     CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. 8691/79, 26 April 1985,
     para. 66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.
9
     CoEDH, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,
     6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.
10
     See eg EC Court, Aurubis Balgaria of March 31, 2011, C-546/09, points 42-43; Judgment, Alfamicro v. Commission of 14 November 2017, T-831/14,
     dots 155-157.
11
     EDH Court, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95 para 56.
12
     Ibidem. See also Court of Human Rights, Malone c. United Kingdom, series A n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; EDH Court, Fernández Martínez c. Spain
     CE:ECHR:2014:0612JUD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court EDH, Liberty and others v. 58243/00 of July 1, 2008, para. 62 and
     63; EDH Court, Rotaru c. Romania, App. No. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court EDH, S and Marper c. United Kingdom, Applications No. 30562/04 and
     30566/04, of December 4, 2008 para. 99.; Dimitrov-Kazakov v. Bulgaria n°11379/03, of February 10, 2011.
13
     Judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraph 54.



                                                                                         129
6 APPENDICES




    framework of the administrative inquiry are fundamental to the European Union specifies that
    an interference with the right to respect for “[p]orportionality requires that a measure
    privacy of applicants for authorization, interference in the exercise of the rights protected
    of a permit or approval, the bill by the European Court of Human Rights
    should regulate more specifically such does not go beyond what is necessary to
    processing in accordance with case law to achieve the legitimate aim pursued. The factors
    of the European Court of Human Rights. important things to consider when
    However, it is clear that the draft law clarification of the proportionality criterion are
    under notice, as amended is, in places, not the scope of the interference, in particular the number
    written with sufficient precision. It of data subjects, and the guarantees or
    will return to this point in the developments of the warnings put in place to limit its
    at points D, E and F below. extent or its negative effects on the rights of
                                                                                 individuals”17.
           ii. On the second condition
                                                                                 The European Data Protection Supervisor
    Data Court case law further indicates that “[a] review of
    Justice of the European Union and of the Court eu- proportionality generally presupposes
    of human rights that the methods of determining which “guarantees” should
    tives invoked by the public authorities to accompany a measure (which would
    justify a limitation to the exercise of the right to surveillance) in order to reduce to a
    protection of personal data – “acceptable” level/proportionate the risks
    nel or interference with the right to respect posed by the measure envisaged with regard to
    of privacy must be relevant and sufficient fundamental rights and freedoms of
    sants15 and that it must be demonstrated that there are no individuals concerned. »18.
    no other less intrusive methods. There
    concept of necessity, as interpreted by In this case, the National Commission
    the Court of Justice of the European Union, requires in the absence of such details, what
    implies that the measures adopted would be less would be the safeguards envisaged by the authors
    intrusive than other options to reach the of the bill under notice and if it would not exist
    same goal. Moreover, according to the case law of the less intrusive methods than the system
    European Court of Human Rights, for provided for by the device under opinion.
    meet the necessity test, the interference
    should also be proportionate. In its It appears from the text under opinion that the course
    “Handbook on European law in matters of administrative inquiry will lead to a
    protection of data”, the Agency for the duplication of information concerning


    14
         In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
         Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619
    15
         See the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 4 December 2008, S. and Marper c. United Kingdom.
    16
         See judgments of the Court of Justice of 9 November 2010, C-92/09, Volker und Markus Schecke GbR/Land Hessen, and C-93/09, Eifert/Land Hessen
         and Bundesansalt für Landwirtschaft und Ernährung.
    17
         See page 45 of the “Handbook on European data protection law” of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
    18
         See page 11 of the “EDPS Guidelines on the assessment of the proportionality of measures limiting fundamental rights
         privacy and the protection of personal data”.



                                                           130
criminal history of a person in the form of a notice, in order to allow him
the hands of different authorities. Indeed, the ability to assess the “good repute” of an applicant.
National Commission understands that some This mechanism still has the advantage
data contained in the files that the administrative investigation would be entrusted to
held by the Grand-Ducal Police, by the repressive authority, the Public Ministry, and
Public ministry or the SRE will be brought to not to an administration. Indeed, such
appearing again in a file held by an authority would be more appropriate to carry out a
The Minister. such investigation having regard to the nature of the data
                                                                                   processed.
In order to avoid duplication of such data
and the maintenance of a kind of new “casier bis” iii. On the Belgian and French system
by the Minister for the persons concerned
by the draft law, the CNPD considers that a It is interesting to note that a similar approach
less intrusive method to reach the area has been adopted in Belgium and France.
same purpose should be preferred to the system
currently planned by the authors of the project Indeed, in Belgium, the governor, who
of law. It therefore agrees with the proposal made. Is the competent authority to issue
by the Council of State in its opinion approvals or authorization for the detention
supplement of December 19, 202019 of a firearm, decides on the request after
according to which it proposes the mechanism of having received the reasoned opinion of the Crown prosecutor
detailed opinion issued by the competent State prosecutor and mayor20 or after opinion
and forwarded to the Minister. This mechanism comes from the head of the local police21.
would replace communication to the Minister
information by the Grand Ducal Police, In France, the prefect who is the competent authority
the Public Ministry and the SRE. attempts to issue the authorizations in ma-
                                                                                   tier of arms22, will also be communicated
Such a mechanism would make it possible to avoid the “opinion of the national service of administrative investigations
duplication of data concerning the safety instructions” and the “opinion resulting from the en-
criminal record of an applicant administrative inquiry carried out by the services
while allowing the Minister to obtain the police or gendarmerie "in order to issue
necessary and relevant information, said authorizations.


19
     Additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020, parliamentary document n°7425/08, developments under "Amendment 14".
20
     With regard to the approvals of gunsmiths, intermediaries, collectors of weapons and any person carrying out certain activities
     involving the possession of firearms, Article 11 paragraph (1) of the aforementioned law of 8 June 2006 provides that: “[t]his authorization
     can only be issued after notice, within three months of the request, of the local police chief of the applicant's residence. decision
     must be motivated. (…) If it appears that the possession of the weapon may undermine public order or that the legitimate reason invoked to obtain
     the authorization no longer exists, the competent governor for the residence of the person concerned may limit, suspend or withdraw the authorization by decision
     justified according to a procedure defined by the King and after having obtained the opinion of the competent King's prosecutor for this residence. ".
21
     With regard to the issuance of an authorization for the possession of a firearm by an individual, Article 11 paragraph (1) of the law of 8 June
     2006 cited above provides that: “[t]his authorization can only be issued after notice, within three months of the request, of the head of the body of the
     local police of the applicant's residence. The decision must be reasoned. (…) If it appears that the possession of the weapon may undermine public order
     public or that the legitimate reason invoked to obtain the authorization no longer exists, the competent governor for the residence of the person concerned may
     limit, suspend or withdraw the authorization by reasoned decision according to a procedure defined by the King and after having obtained the opinion of the King's prosecutor
     competent for this residence. ".
22
     Article R.312-2 of the French Internal Security Code.



                                                                                              131
6 APPENDICES




    Therefore, in order to meet the criterion of This article states that “[t]he data to be
    necessity, the CNPD recommends that the authors personal data collected by the authorities
    of the bill to draw inspiration from the system put in place for the purposes set out in
    place by Belgian and French legislation and Article 1 cannot be processed for the purposes
    to follow the suggestions made by the Council other than those set out therein, unless such
    state, as mentioned above. processing is authorized by Union law
                                                                               European Union or by a provision of law
    Finally, provided that the authors of the Luxembourg project. ".
    of law maintain the system envisaged by the
    bill under opinion, the National Commission Furthermore, it should be noted that this database
    intends to make the following comments. law seems to establish a special regime
                                                                               with respect to the provisions of section 2,
           B. On the origin of the data processed chapter 2, of the law of 22 February 2018 relating to
              by the Minister the exchange of personal data and
                                                                               information on police matters, and to those
    The National Commission understands that the provisions of Article 9 paragraph (2) of the law
    data collected and processed by the Minister amended on July 5, 2016 reorganizing
    as part of the SRE's administrative investigation.
    come from files held by the Police
    Grand Duchy, the Public Ministry and the SRE. Indeed, these provisions have respectively
    These data were initially collected for the purpose of supervising the transmission of such
    by the aforementioned authorities for data purposes by the Grand Ducal Police to other
    prevention and detection of government offenses as part of the verification
    criminal proceedings, investigations and prosecutions in respect of good repute23, and the communication by the
    matter or execution of criminal sanctions. SRE “[d]information collected in the
    The new article 14 provides that these authorities carry out their missions (…) to the administrations
    communicate such data to the Minister insofar as this information
    as part of the administrative investigation. seem useful for the accomplishment of their
                                                                               respective assignments. »24.
    The CNPD welcomes the fact that such a legal basis
    is provided for by the mechanism under assent- In any case, it is appropriate to welcome the fact
    ment to the provisions of Article 8 paragraph that this legal basis expressly provides for the
    (1) of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of the data referred to in article 14
    of natural persons with regard to the new by the Public Ministry to the Minister in
    processing of personal data in the context of the administrative investigation while
    in criminal matters as well as in matters of security, to date no legal provision provided for
    national rity. such communication. This all the more, had



    23
         See parliamentary document n°6975 on the bill relating to the exchange of personal data and information relating to
         police, comments of the authors of the bill concerning articles 26 and following of the bill.
    24
         Article 9 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 5 July 2016 reorganizing the SRE.



                                                          132
with regard to the recent case known as the "casier bis" or general of state. Therefore and insofar as
"jucha". consultation for the purpose of carrying out a
                                                                          administrative inquiry, as provided for by
Finally, and in order to allow people the new article 14 of the bill, does not seem to
concerned to understand the scope and not be covered by the aforementioned article 43-2, it is necessary
scope of the administrative inquiry, would it not be to question the articulation of the provisions
it is not preferable to expressly indicate the provisions of bill no. 7741 with those of the
article 14 new that the data collected bill under notice.
during the administrative inquiry come
files held by the Grand Ducal Police, the C. On the principle of limitation
Public Ministry or the SRE? purposes

As for the files held by the Grand- In accordance with the principle of limitation of
ducale, it is necessary to draw the attention of the authors purposes, the personal data must
of the bill on bill n°7741 be collected for specific purposes,
amending 1° of the amended law of the explicit and legitimate, and not to be processed
July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, 2° subsequently in an incompatible manner
the amended law of July 5, 2016 relating to these purposes.
reorganization of the intelligence service
of the State and 3° of the Penal Code, filed on 30 It should be noted that the transmission of
December 2020 (hereinafter the "Bill Data from Files Maintained by
No. 7741"). Bill n°7741 concerns the Grand-Ducal Police, the Public Ministry
to supervise the processing of data to or even the SRE to the Minister, for the purposes
personal character carried out in the administrative investigation files, is very delicate
of the Grand-Ducal Police, and more precisely even risky and must, therefore, be limited to
in the central file. exceptional and strictly limited situations.

Article 43-2 of bill n°7741 provides that Thus, the use of data for purposes other than
the central file will have a passive part than those for which were transmitted
(as to the information that would be transmitted to the Minister, entails additional risks
in the passive part of the central file, it is and seems a priori difficult to justify. A
referred to Bill No. 7741). There is reason for such further use should in any event
note that access to the passive part of the case file complies with the conditions of article 6
central will be strictly limited to the purposes of paragraph (4) of the GDPR and be the subject of a law
listed in paragraph (19) of article 43-2 “at least as regards the essential elements of the
of bill n°7741. This consultation will not be "matter" in accordance with article 11, paragraph
moreover, possible only with the agreement of the prosecutor (3) of the Constitution25.




25
     See in this sense, M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Standards and legislation in public law
     Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.471 to 472, n°619.



                                                                                   133
6 APPENDICES




    Therefore, like the pre-member provisions which provide appropriate safeguards
    seen in article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) of the law for the rights and freedoms of persons
    of 22 February 2018 relating to the exchange of gifts- concerned. ". This article further states that
    personal and information “[a]ny complete record of convictions
    in police matters26, shouldn’t it be necessary to provide for criminal cases can only be held under the control
    in the draft law under notice that the data of the public authority”.
    forwarded to the Minister, for ad-hoc investigation purposes.
    ministerial, can only be used for It is clear that such guarantees
    the purpose for which they were transmitted do not seem to have been foreseen by the
    and supervise the transmission, if necessary, by authors of the bill, or else these are not
    the minister to another administration/a third party? not specified by them in the device
                                                                                     under notice or in their commentary to Article 14
    By the way, it is worth noting that the new.
    German Weapons Act of February 17, 2020
    provides that the data collected in the Or, it is essential that such safeguards are
    context of the verification of good repute not provided for in the bill while in the state
    can be used only for this purpose within the current framework of the device under notice, the persons
    weapons law. § 5 “Zoverlässigkeit”, concerned will see a duplication of their
    (5) specifies that “(…) Die nach Satz 1 Nummer 2 data relating to criminal convictions
    erhobenen personenbezogenen Daten dürfen or offenses at the hands of several
    nur für den Zweck der waffenrechtlichen authorities. The collection of such data during
    Zuverlässigkeitsprüfung verwendet werden”. the administrative inquiry could lead to the
                                                                                     keeping a kind of new “double register” by
           D. On the processing of data the Minister. This would have, where appropriate,
              of a personal nature relating to the outcome of the investigation copies of reports of
              £police criminal convictions, extracts from minutes, judgements,
              and offenses or measures or "necessary information"
              related security provided by the SRE.

    Article 10 of the GDPR provides that “[t]he furthermore, there is still reason to question the
    processing of personal data issue of accuracy and updating
    relating to criminal convictions and data that would be transmitted by the
    offenses or related security measures Public Ministry, the Grand Ducal Police or
    based on Article 6(1), may not by the SRE to the Minister while the system
    be carried out only under the control of the authority envisaged does not provide for a return of these
    public, or if the processing is authorized by authorities to the Minister. For example, this
    Union law or by the law of a State question could arise in the event

    26
         Article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) provides that: “(2) The data and information transmitted may only be used by the administration
         for the purpose for which they were transmitted. They are erased as soon as their conservation is no longer necessary with regard to the purpose
         for which they were transmitted. (3) Further transmission of data and information by the State administration to a third party
         person requires the prior written consent of the person referred to in Article 18, paragraph 1, who transmitted the data and information
         concerned. Where applicable, Article 6(3) shall apply”.



                                                              134
where data transmitted by the Police Indeed, the authors of the bill specify that
or the SRE, and relating to this paragraph was introduced taking into account the
facts concerning an applicant would result in “current political context at the level of the tendencies
a decision of dismissal, a classification without violent extremist dances", context which
following. “demonstrates the importance for the authorities of
                                                                                to be able to verify in more detail the person who
The CNPD therefore considers it essential that companies submit an authorization to acquire, purchase,
guarantees are provided by the authors of the project to import, export, transfer, trans-
of law. The transmission of a detailed notice to carry, hold, carry, sell and
of the Public Prosecutor's Office in place of transmissions to transfer arms and ammunition".
currently provided for by the bill, as
suggested by the Council of State, could be one Therefore, there is reason to wonder about the fact of
between them. whether opinion data
                                                                                political or religious beliefs or
       E. On the treatment of philosophical categories of a person seeking a
          specific approval, permit or authorization data would be
          of a personal nature likely to be communicated to the Minister.
                                                                                If so, it will be a treatment of
As a preliminary remark, there are special categories of data.
point out that if the data transmitted by the
SRE to the Minister are for administrative purposes. As such, it is recalled that the processing of
nistrative, the fact remains that the nature of special categories of data is, in
even data will not change. In principle, prohibited by Article 9 paragraph (1)
In this context, there is reason to question the application of the GDPR27 unless one of the conditions referred to in
applicability of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to paragraph (2) of the said article applies.
protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data The National Commission considers that the
in criminal matters as well as in the treatment of special categories of
national security. data, during the administrative investigation by
                                                                                the Minister, could rely on Article 9
In the context of the exchange of data between paragraph (2) of the GDPR. This article has
SRE and the Minister, as provided in paragraph (6) that “[t]he processing is necessary for
of the new article 14 of the bill under opinion, reasons of important public interest, on the basis of the
the CNPD understands that, in this context, Union law or the law of a Member State
special categories of data, in the sense of which must be proportionate to the objective pursued,
Article 9 of the GDPR, would be likely to respect the essence of the right to the protection of
communicated to the Minister. data and plan appropriate measures


27
     Article 9 paragraph (1) provides that: “[t]he processing of personal data which reveals racial or ethnic origin, opinions
     political, religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership, as well as the processing of genetic data,
     biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, health data or data
     concerning the sex life or sexual orientation of a natural person are prohibited”.



                                                                                          135
6 APPENDICES




    and specific for the safeguard of religious rights, trade union membership or
    interests of the person health of the person subject to this
    concerned". administrative investigation;
                                                           2° To the alleged racial or ethnic origin, to the
    In the absence of precision of “measures appro- political opinions, religious convictions,
    requested and specific for safeguarding trade union membership, sexual life or
    fundamental rights and interests of the sexual orientation of a person other than
    concerned", the bill under opinion is not that which is the subject of the administrative inquiry
    does not seem to offer a legal basis mentioned in V, provided that these data
    reliance on processing these categories of data relate to a procedure in which the
    particular. person under administrative investigation
                                                           tive is called into question. ".
    In order to make such data processing lawful
    by the Minister, the National Commission considers F. On the principle of minimizing
    essential that such measurements be data
    defined in the bill under opinion.
                                                           Apart from the fact that the provisions of articles
    It should also be specified 10 and 9 of the GDPR must be respected, the
    expressly that particular categories minimization principle will also have to be
    of data could be collected while respected during the implementation of the processing
    this does not result from reading the paragraph referred to in the new article 14.
    (6) of the new article 14 of the bill. So,
    it is suggested that the authors of the bill In accordance with this principle, the data to be
    are based on the French provisions of a personal nature must be adequate,
    article R.312-85 point VI of the Safety Code relevant and limited to what is necessary
    interior entitled "data and information with regard to the purposes for which they
    from the administrative investigation. are processed. Data minimization
                                                           means that the controller
    This article provides that “[a]s an exception, shall only process data that is
    are authorized, in case of absolute necessity necessary (and not only useful) for the
    for the sole purposes and in respect of the achievement of the purposes.
    conditions applicable to this processing, the
    collection, storage and processing of If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the project of
    data strictly necessary, adequate law to have delimited the facts on which
    and not excessive that appear in the investigation the administrative investigation will provide details
    administrative mentioned in V and relating: as to the data that will actually be
    1° Political opinions, convictions communicated to the Minister during the investigation




                                            136
administrative, would deserve to be made. an ongoing criminal prosecution, in which case the
                                                                              five-year period is increased to 10 years.
In the absence of such details, the Commission
national is not in a position to assess whether the If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the bill
principle of data minimization would be for these clarifications, the text does not specify with
respected and would like to raise the following points. enough clarity:
                                                                              - what data would be transmitted by
       To. On the data transmitted by the Grand Ducal Police to the Minister, and under
          Grand-ducal police and the Ministry which forms these would be transmitted;
          public to the Minister and
                                                                              - what data would be transmitted by
       i. On the data relating to the Public Ministry to the Minister, and under what
            facts that did not give rise to a form, these would be transmitted.
            Justice decision
                                                                              Such details are important then.
- Ad paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 14 that the Minister would be likely to receive
  again several documents relating to the same facts
                                                                              by the Grand-Ducal Police and the Public Ministry.
Paragraph (2) of the new Article 14 of the Or, such a situation would not be in conformity with the
bill provides that the information minimization principle of data.
relating to the facts, referred to in paragraph (3) of
the aforementioned article, are communicated to the Minister In addition, the wording “any other document or
"in the form of the entirety or extracts of the procedural document containing the information
minutes or police reports, concerned” is too vague, so that it is not
judgments, rulings, ordinances, or any other it is not possible to understand from reading what
document or procedural document containing the would be the information communicated. A
relevant information”. such a formulation is a source of uncertainty
                                                                              and legal uncertainty28 and details
The text further specifies that "the facts deserve to be provided by the authors of the
to which the bill information relates.
provided by the Public Ministry and the Police
may not have been committed Moreover, it is still regrettable that the
more than five years before the introduction of the bill's authors have not specified what
application for authorization, were the situations for which it would be
of a permit or approval provided for by justified communication to the Minister of all
this law, unless these facts have been the subject or only an extract of the information referred to
of a criminal conviction or are the subject of the last paragraph of paragraph (2) article 14



28
     In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
     Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229,
     December 4, 2015.



                                                                                        137
6 APPENDICES




    new of the bill while such The authors of the bill specify that
    explanations are provided by the authors of "when extract no. 2 from the criminal record
    bill with respect to the plaintiff's paragraph provides information on several
    (5) of the aforementioned article. convictions for serious offences, sometimes
                                                        with prison sentences
    In any case, explanations as to (…) the communication of judgments or judgments
    the need to obtain such information at issue is not necessary, whereas the
    should be provided by the authors of the project application can then be refused on the basis
    of law. just a criminal record. However, when
                                                        the extract provides information, for example, only one
    - Ad paragraph (4) of article 14 new conviction for assault and battery
                                                        volunteers, with the only penalty being
    In the event that a preliminary investigation gives a fine, sometimes even a small one, the analysis of the
    or a preparatory investigation is in progress, concrete facts are required and communication
    only the data referred to in paragraph (4) of a copy of the judgment or judgment is then
    the aforementioned article 14 may be transmitted as necessary”.
    minister. The National Commission welcomes
    such details. The CNPD considers, in view of the justifications
                                                        of the authors of the bill that the principle of
    In addition, and as noted by the Council of State, minimization of data could be respected
    in its aforementioned additional opinion, what in such cases, while the communication of
    would be the scope of the secrecy of the investigation by such decisions would not be systematic.
    relation to the rules of administrative procedure
    non-contentious and contentious? However, it should be noted that paragraph 2 of the
                                                        paragraph (2) of new article 14 provides
       ii. On the data that relate to information, concerning the facts
           facts giving rise to a decision referred to in paragraph (3), may be
           of justice communicated to the Minister in the form of
                                                        the entirety or extracts of "judgments, judgments,
    It should be noted that subsection (5) of ordinances”.
    the new article 14 provides that on request
    “the State prosecutor communicates to the Minister The authors of the bill do not justify
    copies of court decisions that appear in their commentary on the article the need
    where applicable on bulletin no. 2 of the register and the usefulness of such communication while
    of the person concerned, issued the Minister may already have access, on
    to the Minister in accordance with article 15, para- if necessary, to the decisions which appear on the
    graph 4”. bulletin n°2 of the person concerned.




                                          138
Do these provisions refer to the possibility (6) of the aforementioned article, between the Minister and the SRE
for the Minister to obtain decisions that are not within the framework of the execution of his missions
would not yet be final or not yet as referred to in Article 3, paragraph (2) of
registered in bulletin n°2? If such were to be the amended law of 5 July 2016 reorganizing
the case, the National Commission shares the SRE station is already provided for by the provisions
reservations issued by the Council of State as well as Articles 9 and 10 of the aforementioned law30.
the General Prosecutor's Office in their respective opinion on the
transmission of non-final decisions29. The National Commission therefore wonders,
should it not be provided, like paragraph 2, of how these provisions are structured
subsection (4) that the Minister has the option of with the provisions referred to in sections 9 and
hold a request for authorization in abeyance, 10 of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on
approval or permit in cases where a reorganization of the SRE.
decision would not be final?
                                                                                       ii. On the data provided by
In any case, this system should not the ERS to the Minister
enable the Minister to obtain communication
tion of court decisions which do not appear It should be noted that paragraph (6) of
more on the extract from the criminal record for cases the new article 14 of the bill provides that
where a penal rehabilitation would have been granted. “the Minister and the Intelligence Service of
                                                                                 the State exchange (…) the information that is
       b. On the exchange of data between the necessary (…)”.
          SRE and the Minister
                                                                                 In their commentary to paragraph (6) of
       i. Preliminary remarks new article 14, the authors of the draft
                                                                                 law specify that it is important to “have
The authors of the bill specify in their of all known information on a
comment of paragraph (6) of article 14 person in order not to run the risk of
new that this paragraph provides the basis for granting an authorization in the field of firearms
which would allow the Service Armes & Gar- an extremist potential with violent propensity,
diennage and the SRE to exchange information or even a potential terrorist”.
which would be necessary for the accomplishment
of their respective missions. However, given the nature of the data which
                                                                                 would be communicated, it is imperative that
However, it should be noted that the exchange details are provided by the authors of the
of data, as provided for by the paragraph of the bill as to the categories of data which



29
     See opinion of the General Prosecutor's Office, parliamentary document No. 7425/02, page 18, comments under point 22) and opinion of the Council of State, document
     n°7425/04, page 23, comments relating to article 50.
30
     Article 9, paragraph (2) provides that “[t]he SRE communicates as soon as possible the information collected within the framework of its
     missions to the judicial authorities, to the Grand Ducal police services and to the administrations insofar as this information appears
     useful for the accomplishment of their respective missions”, Article 10, paragraph (2) provides that “[in the context of the exercise of its mission, the
     SRE has direct access, via a computer system, to the following processing of personal data: (…) g) the prohibited weapons file
     of the Minister having Justice in his attributions”.



                                                                                            139
6 APPENDICES




    would be communicated by the SRE to the Minister Or, it should be noted that if this paragraph is
    in order to comply with the principle of foreseeability and faithful reproduction of paragraph (4) of Article
    precision to which any initial legal text 57 of the bill must respond, the CNPD is of the opinion that
    or regulatory31. the affixing of the term “[f]or the needs of
                                                                                     assessment of good repute” at the beginning of
    In the absence of such details, the CNPD is only paragraph (8) of article 14 new change
    not able to assess whether such processing the meaning of the initial provisions. This leaves,
    of data is likely to respect the indeed, assuming that the convictions
    principle of data minimization. abroad are to be taken into account when
                                                                                     integrity check.
    On this point, it is suggested to the authors of the
    bill to be inspired by the provisions If this were to be the case, the origin of the data
    legal provisions of the German law of February 17, 2020 should be clarified, as well as the
    (“Waffengesetz”) which specifies the categories of data offenses taken into account by
    the subject of the Minister's audit as part of the audit
    “Zuverlässigkeit” carried out by the equivalent of good repute should be specified. If he
    German SRE32. should have been the communication of extracts
                                                                                     criminal records from another
           vs. On the transmission of data by Member State of the European Union, from a country
              the criminal courts of a State associated with the Schengen area or of the Area
              member to the European Economic Minister, then this should be
                                                                                     reflected in the device.
    With regard to paragraph (8) of Article
    14 new, the authors of the bill under 2. On the establishment of a system of
    notices specify in their comment y follow-up with regard to the verification
    relating that it is not a question of "provisions of good repute
    newly proposed by the present
    amendments” but that it is in substance Article 5 paragraph (2) of the directive (UE)
    the resumption of paragraph (4) of Article 57 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council
    original of the bill. of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 91/477/EEC



    31
         In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
         Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229,
         December 4, 2015.
    32
         Paragraph (5) paragraph (5) entitled “Zuverlässigkeit”, point (5), 4., of the German law of February 17, 2020 provides that “(5) Die zuständige
         Behörde hat im Rahmen der Zuverlässigkeitsprüfung folgende Erkundigungen einzuholen: (…) 4. die Auskunft der für den Wohnsitz der
         betroffenen Person zuständigen Verfassungs- schutzbehörde, ob Tatsachen bekannt sind, die Bedenken gegen die Zuverlässigkeit nach Absatz
         2 Nummer 2 and 3 begründen; liegt der Wohnsitz der betroffenen Person außerhalb des Geltungsbereichs dieses Gesetzes, ist das Bundesamt
         für Verfassungsschutz für die Erteilung der Auskunft zuständig. Die nach Satz 1 Nummer 2 erhobenen personenbezogenen Daten dürfen nur für
         den Zweck der waffenrechtlichen Zuverlässigkeitsprüfung verwendet werden. Erlangt die für die Auskunft nach Satz 1 Nummer 4 zuständige
         Verfassungsschutzbehörde im Nachhinein für die Beurteilung der Zuverlässigkeit nach Absatz 2 Nummer 2 und 3 bedeutsame Erkenntnisse, teilt
         sie dies der zuständigen Behörde unverzüglich mit (Nachbericht). Zu diesem Zweck speichert sie Name, Vorname, Geburtsdatum, Geburtsname,
         Geburtsort, Wohnort und Staatsangehörigkeit der betroffenen Person sowie Aktenfundstelle in den gemeinsamen Dateien nach § 6 des
         Bundesverfassungsschutzgesetzes. Lehnt die zuständige Behörde einen Antrag ab oder nimmt sie eine erteilte Erlaubnis zurück oder widerruft
         diese, so hat sie die zum Nachbericht verpflichtete Verfassungsschutzbehörde hiervon unverzüglich in Kenntnis zu setzen. Die zum Nachbericht
         verpflichtete Verfassungsschutzbehörde hat in den Fällen des Satzes 5 die nach Satz 4 gespeicherten Daten unverzüglich zu löschen. ".



                                                              140
of the Council relating to the control of the acquisition paragraph (4) of the aforementioned article may
and the possession of weapons (hereinafter to be communicated by the State Prosecutor
“directive”) provides for a monitoring system “which general to the Minister” when he has
operates on a continuous or periodic basis of information likely to cast doubt
aimed at guaranteeing that the conditions for granting the good repute” of an authorization holder,
an authorization set by national law a permit or approval in the course of
are met for the entire duration of the authorisation.
tion”. Such a system which was not transposed
in the initial bill seems to be transposed The provisions of paragraph 1 of paragraph (4)
following the amendments under opinion. of the new article 14 of the bill list
                                                                                the data that can be communicated
Indeed, the CNPD understands that a system of in the event that a preliminary investigation or
follow-up on the condition of good repute would be a preparatory investigation is in progress for
established, as evidenced by the provisions, the facts referred to in paragraph (3) of Article 14
of paragraphs (4), paragraph 3, and (6) of the aforementioned article.
14 new as well as in Article 51 (original 49) of
law Project. It intends to clarify the points However, it should be noted that the text
following with respect to these provisions. under notice remains silent as to the information that
                                                                                relate to facts which are not the subject of
Moreover, in the absence of precision in the preliminary investigation or instruction
bill under opinion, it is necessary to question the preparatory process.
on the practical implementation of the system of
planned follow-up. Indeed, insofar as the Moreover, the National Commission
Public Prosecutor, the Grand Ducal Police and asks how the Minister obtains the
SRE have access to the weapons file33, held "information likely to reveal
by the Minister, the latter will consult they doubt the good repute” relating to a holder
said file proactively and in the manner of an authorization, permit or
regularly in order to report valid approvals to the minister? Is it that
information likely to call into question the obtaining of such information is done by
the “good repute” of a holder of an authorization, the intermediary of the Public Prosecutor via the
Valid approval or permit? procedure referred to in article 51 of the bill
                                                                                under review? What about the Grand Police
       A. Ad paragraph (4) paragraph 3 of the Ducale or of the SRE if the latter were to
          the new article 14 of the bill have information likely to put
                                                                                questioning the good repute of a holder of a
Paragraph 3 of paragraph (4) of the aforementioned article authorisation, permit or approval in the course of
specifies that the data referred to in paragraph 1 of the validity?



33
     In accordance with article 48-24 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, article 43 of the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police and article 10
     of the amended law of 5 July 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service, the public prosecutor's offices, the Grand-Ducal Police and the SRE
     respectively have access to the weapons file.



                                                                                           141
6 APPENDICES




    Details on this subject would deserve to be Although it does not appear expressly
    indicated by the authors of the bill. of the mechanism under review, the CNPD includes
                                                           that this system is part of the implementation
        B. Ad paragraph (6) of Article 14 establishes a monitoring system so that the
           new to the Minister's bill ensures that the holder of an approval,
                                                           a current authorization or permit,
    Article 14 new paragraph (6) of the draft issued on the basis of the draft law, fulfills
    law provides for an exchange between the Minister and the SRE always the condition of good repute referred to
    information necessary for the assessment of the new article 14 of the bill. If the
    good repute. However, it should be noted that the provisions of this article should not
    that this integrity check is not aimed at such a hypothesis, what would be, as soon as
    temporally framed. therefore, the purpose and necessity of such
                                                           communication ?
    The CNPD recommends specifying, as
    of the German law of February 17, 2020, the Insofar as this article appears to be the
    terms of such an exchange, in particular during article 14 of the bill under opinion,
    in the event that the SRE obtains information, it should be specified that the information
    information, concerning a holder of an act committed by a holder
    authorisation, license or approval in an authorization, license or license
    courses, which would be likely to have can relate only to the facts referred to in
    consequences for his reputation. subsection (3) of section 14.

        C. Ad Article 51 (initial 49) of the draft Indeed, the current wording "if the prosecutor
           general state law and the competent state prosecutor
                                                           consider that the transmission of the minutes
    Amendment no. 51 is a com- or reformulation of the report is appropriate” seems too
    of article 51 (initial 49) of the bill. vague in the eyes of the CNPD, insofar as
    This article entitled "Information of the Minister by her could be interpreted as extending
    the Public Prosecutor’s Office” aims to obtain information that can be verified
    by the Arms & Security Service of good repute.
    the part of the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office and not of the
    Grand-ducal police as planned Furthermore, shouldn't it also be necessary to provide
    initially in clause 49 of the bill. the communication of such information under
    The transmission of information occurs if the form of detailed opinion of the Attorney General
    “State Attorney General and the State Attorney General or the competent State Attorney rather
    competent consider that the transmission of the pro- that the transmission of minutes or
    minutes or report is appropriate". reports ?




                                            142
3. On the shelf life of administrative donations. Article R312-88 of the Code of
   data obtained within the framework of French internal security provides that:
   verification of good repute “[p]ersonal data and
                                                       information mentioned in d of 1° of I and
According to Article 5 paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, in V and VI of Article R. 312-85 [the data
the personal data must not come from the administrative investigation] are
not be kept for longer than kept for a maximum period of one
necessary for the achievement of the purposes for one year from the notification of the decisions
which they are collected and processed. mentioned in IV of the same article or, in the event of
                                                       contentious appeal against these decisions,
The National Commission regrets that until a final ruling has been made on
authors of the bill did not indicate the dispute”.
retention periods for processed data
in the context of the administrative inquiry and Finally, it should also be noted that the
as part of the tracking system. In the absence of the device under notice, there is no provision
clarification from the authors of the bill on this relating to the updating of the data obtained
point, the CNPD is not in a position to assess by the Minister as part of the verification
if, in this case, the principle of duration of good repute. However, given the data
limited data retention is respected. collected, it is appropriate to draw the attention of
                                                       authors of the bill on the fact that there is a
However, the National Commission considers that there is an essential and significant risk that data relating to
that clarification on this subject be provided a person whose case has been closed without
and this all the more in view of the nature of the consequences or which has meanwhile been acquitted of a
personal data in question. offense with which she was charged are
                                                       always in the files of the administration,
Thus, the retention period should be without a related update or rectification.
defined in the bill or the bill should have
minimum specify the criteria that would be taken into account 4. On the rights of data subjects
account to determine how long
storage proportionate for each According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (a) of the
category of personal data which GDPR, personal data
would be collected by the Minister. must be processed lawfully, fairly
                                                       and transparent to the person
By way of example, it is suggested to the authors concerned (principle of legality, loyalty,
of the bill to be inspired by the transparency provisions), which implies in particular that
French authorities which set a retention period, the Minister must comply with the provisions
for data resulting from the investigation of Article 13 of the GDPR with regard to the




                                                              143
6 APPENDICES




    collection of data directly from the access, rectification and limitation of
    data subject, otherwise those of the data article mentioned in Articles 13 to 16 and 18
    14 of the GDPR, when data relating to the [GDPR] and Articles 104 to 106 of the law
    personnel have not been collected from the aforementioned January 6, 1978 are exercised with
    the person concerned him/herself, i.e. the central arms service or the prefect
    say those collected indirectly from the territorially competent, depending on
    Public Ministry, the Grand Ducal Police or their respective powers. In order to avoid
    of the ERS. Under these articles, the person in charge hindering investigations, research or
    of the processing provides the data subject with administrative or legal proceedings or
    information about processing to avoid harm prevention or detection
    concerning, in particular to guarantee a criminal offenses, investigations or
    fair and transparent treatment. proceedings in this regard or the execution of
                                                           criminal penalties or to protect the safety
    Therefore, insofar as the Minister, in the public, the rights of access, rectification and
    within the framework of the administrative inquiry, does not collect the limitation may be subject to restrictions
    not directly the data with the application of article 52 and 2° and 3° of II
    data subjects must provide and III of article 107 of the law of January 6, 1978
    all the information referred to in the aforementioned article 14. ".
    of the GDPR. This information should be provided
    to the person concerned no later than one month 5. On the competent supervisory authority
    after the Minister obtains the data.
                                                           There is reason to wonder whether
    Finally, it is necessary to draw the attention of the authors which is the competent supervisory authority
    of the bill on the fact that without derogation to control and monitor compliance with
    explicit in the bill, these rights are legal provisions provided for in article 14
    all fully applicable. However, such new bills, in the absence of
    derogations could prove to be appropriate clarification in the draft law under opinion.
    when the information obtained in the course of
    integrity checks relate to Indeed, there is some doubt as to whether
    ongoing criminal investigations or investigations. if the data, initially collected for the
                                                           needs of prevention, research,
    For all practical purposes, it should be specified that the finding and prosecution of offences,
    French legislation on weapons then transmitted by the Grand Ducal Police,
    provides, in article R.312-90 of the Code of the Public Ministry and the SRE to the Minister in order
    internal security, a restriction of the rights to allow him to check the good repute of a
    of the persons concerned. This article provides applicant for permit, authorization or approval
    in particular that: “[t]he rights to information, covered by the bill, fall within the jurisdiction




                                            144
the judicial control authority34 or that of the National Commission for
of the National Commission. data protection, unless the processing
                                                                                   personal data concerned
It should be recalled that paragraph (2) of is made by a court in the exercise
article 40 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the jurisdictional functions or by the
protection of natural persons vis-à-vis the public prosecutor, either in the exercise of his
the processing of personal data- judicial functions, either upstream or in
nel in criminal matters as well as in matters of se- endorsement of his participation in decision-making
National Curity provides that “jurisdictional operations”36.
processing of personal data
carried out by the courts of the judiciary In this case, the Ministry of Justice is not
civil servant, including the public prosecutor, and law enforcement one of the authorities referred to in article 40 of the law
administrator in the exercise of their functions of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection
jurisdictional, whether for the purposes of natural persons with regard to the processing
referred to in Article 1 of this law or for the purpose of personal data in
those covered by the [GDPR], are subject to criminal matters as well as in terms of security
control of the judicial control authority”. national and will not render a legal decision
                                                                                   following the administrative inquiry
The authors of the bill relating to the pro- but a purely administrative decision (for
protection of natural persons with regard to the example issuance of an authorization for the
processing of personal data carrying weapons).
in criminal matters as well as in matters of security
national authorities consider that "to determine Therefore, the data processing carried out
the competence of one of the two authorities by the Minister within the framework of the investigation
control [CNPD or judicial-administrative control authority, referred to in the new article 14 of the
ciary], the determinative question will no longer be a bill, could fall within the scope of
the purpose of the data concerned, but that of the competence of the National Commission.
whether the competent authority participates in the
making or executing a court decision- It is interesting to note that this solution
nal, which is not the case for the Police”35. has been retained with regard to the authority
                                                                                   competent to monitor and control the
They further specify that "when for a provision of the law of 22 February 2018 relating
processing of personal data to the exchange of personal data
determined – falling within the scope of application and information in police matters37.
of this bill – the question of the
competence of one of the two authorities of For the sake of legal certainty and to lift
control arises, it would in principle be necessary to retain all equivocation on this point, the authors of the

34
     Judicial supervisory authority as referred to in article 40 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
     the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
35
     See parliamentary document n°7168, “Ad article 41”, page 47.
36
     See parliamentary document n°7168, “Ad article 41”, page 47.
37
     Articles 25, paragraph (1), and 28 of the law of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and information relating to
     policewoman.



                                                                                             145
6 APPENDICES




    bill should complete the mechanism under The CNPD agrees with the opinion of the Council of State uni-
    opinion accordingly. only in that it is not relevant to use
                                                                                 the notion of “good repute” to assess whether a
    For all intents and purposes, it should be noted that the individual has the required ability to
    competence of the CNPD with regard to possessing or handling a weapon. Nevertheless, the re-
    the processing of data carried out by reference to the notion of “good repute” could
    Minister within the framework of the bill under opinion appear relevant with regard to the approvals
    in no way prejudges the competence of the authority which would be issued by the Minister to
    of judicial review with respect to the gunsmiths or dealers. The said approvals being
    communication of data by the Ministry a prerequisite for access to such professions.
    public to the Minister pursuant to section 14
    new to the bill. As such, it is specified that in France the notion
                                                                                 of “good repute” is used for any
    6. Final remarks person wishing to “carry out the activity which
                                                                                 consists, principally or incidentally, either in the
    It should be noted that in its opinion com- manufacture, trade, exchange, rental,
    supplementary report of December 19, 2020 the Board the hire-purchase, loan, modification,
    d’Etat38 proposes to omit the notion of honorabi- reparation or transformation, either by
    ity in favor of the criterion of dangerousness. Indeed, the negotiation or organization of operations in
    Council of State considers that the criterion of honorabi- view of the purchase, sale, supply or
    ity is “difficult to transpose to the verification of the transfer of arms, ammunition or their
    tion of a person's ability to hold or hold items. However, this concept is not
    wield a weapon”. The high authority is asking for recovery for people wishing to acquire
    even if “the only reason for refusing an authorization or holding a weapon, in fact, article L.312-
    3-1 of the French Internal Security Code
    consist in the dangerousness of the plaintiff. It provides that “[t]he administrative authority may
    Indeed, the criterion of “good repute” appears to be unique – prohibiting the acquisition and possession of weapons,
    ment in the regulations relating to access to ammunition and their elements of the categories
    to a profession and the practice of it. » A, B and C to people whose behavior
                                                                                 raises fears of dangerous use for
    However, as noted by the Council themselves or for others”.
    of State the bill refers to “the concept
    of “good repute” within the framework of two The National Commission will come back in more detail
    different assessments, that of the gunsmiths and on the reference made to the notion of good repute
    brokers, under the meaning of good repute referred to in Luxembourg legislation in
    professional, and that of individuals, under its opinion on draft law n°7691, which aims
    form of personal integrity. to harmonize and clarify the different




    38
         See parliamentary document n°7425/08, comments on amendment 14, page 7.
    39
         Article L.313-2 of the French Internal Security Code.



                                                           146
“good repute” procedures Furthermore, if the data collected and processed
currently provided for in several texts of within the framework of the administrative investigation are
laws. brought to appear in this file then that
                                                         should be clear from this article.
Moreover, as noted by the Council of State.
It will be necessary to take into account the opinions For example, it is suggested to the authors of the
formulated against the bill under opinion of the bill to take an example from the structure
while Bill No. 7691 intends to modify article R.312-85 of the Security Code
article 16, of the modified law of March 15, 1983 on French interior which specifies the various
weapons and ammunition, which will be repealed by the categories of personal data
bill under notice. However, the proposed device that can be collected by the Minister of
is identical to that provided for in article 14 of the interior (central arms service) in
new to the bill. the framework of the implementation of the treatment
                                                         automated personal data
2. On the weapons file known as the “weapons information system”
                                                         weapons” for the purposes specified in Article
Amendment no. 15 aims to modify article 13 R.312-84 of the Internal Security Code.
initial of the bill concerning the file of
weapons held by the minister. Thus, this article groups together six main categories
                                                         different namely:
The National Commission welcomes- - The identification data of the purchasers
ment the amendments made by the au- and holders of weapons and their components;
tors of the bill in paragraphs (1), (2) and - The identification data of weapons and
(4) article 15 (original 13) of the bill under elements of arms;
opinions that take into account the comments made - The identification data of the persons
levied by the National Commission in its opinion engaging in the manufacture, trade or
of July 8, 2019 and by the Council of State in its intermediation of weapons;
opinion of July 12, 2019. - The data relating to the issuance of
                                                            titles of acquisition, holding, port,
Nevertheless, it is regrettable that authors of manufacture, trade and intermedi-
of the draft law did not specify what distribution of weapons, ammunition and their
categories of data would be processed and for items;
what purposes, as raised - Data and information from
by the CNPD in its aforementioned opinion, while it is conducting the administrative investigation;
now comes under paragraph (1) of the article - Special categories of data
aforesaid that the processing of data carried out which would be in case of absolute necessity
by the Minister has several purposes. collected.




                                                                147
6 APPENDICES




    1. Ad paragraph (3) of Article 15 (13 law, the National Commission can hardly
       initial) of the bill assess its compliance with the GDPR and regrets that
                                                            such details have not been provided.
    This paragraph provides access to certain
    national authorities to the information referred to in In addition, the latter wonders about the possibility
    paragraph (2) of article 15 (initial 13) of the draft that other administrations, in addition to those
    of law. It would therefore be a matter of restricted access to competent authorities for “prevention, research
    weapons file since the CNPD understands and the observation of criminal offences”,
    that also appear in this file have access to data from the survey
    all “documents managed for administrative purposes. This point should be clarified by
    enforcement of this law”. the authors of the bill.

    However, a general access to the file of weapons For the surplus with regard to this
    prohibited within the meaning of the amended law of 15 March paragraph, the National Commission reiterates its
    1983 on arms and ammunition (file of observations made on this subject in its opinion
    weapons within the meaning of the bill) is scheduled for: July 8, 2019.
    - the parquet floors in accordance with the provisions
      of article 48-24 of the Code of Procedure Finally, with regard to the deletion
      criminal; of the first sentence of the last paragraph of
    - the Grand-Ducal Police in accordance with paragraph (3) of Article 15 (initial 13 of
      article 43 of the law of 18 July 2018 on the draft law), the CNPD regrets such
      Grand-ducal police; and deletion when the sentence provided that
    - the SRE in accordance with article 10 of “the personal data should be
      the amended law of July 5, 2016 to be erased from the file at the end of the periods
      reorganization of the Intelligence Service referred to in paragraph 2”. She recalls in this regard that
      of State. beyond the data retention period
                                                            determined by the controller,
    Therefore and as noted by the Council of State, the data must be deleted or
    in its opinion dated July 12, 2019, anonymized.
    authors of the bill should specify in
    to what extent the provisions of paragraph 2. Ad paragraph (5) of Article 15 (13
    (3) of Article 15 (original 13 of the original bill) of the bill
    relate to such provisions.
                                                            The new provisions of subsection (5)
    In the absence of clarification on this point, as well as article 15 (initial 13) of the bill
    that the terms of access provided for in para- enumerate the categories of data “that may
    graph (3) of Article 15 (initial 13) of the project to be the subject of an exchange” between the Minister and




                                             148
national and foreign authorities in the Finally, with regard to the exchange of
insofar as "these exchanges have as their purpose given with foreign authorities, the
enforcement of this law and its regulations National Commission reiterates its observations
of execution or one of the legal provisions formulated in its opinion of July 8, 2019.
referred to in points 1° and 2°”.
                                                                              3. On the medical certificate
It should be noted that the current wording
of the text with regard to the purposes of Amendment n°16 modifies the initial article 14
exchanges is too vaguely drafted in the bill relating to the medical certificate
and does not comply with the principle of precision to be communicated by the applicant in
and predictability to which a text must respond as part of its application for a permit, approval or
of law in accordance with the jurisprudence of the authorization.
Court of Justice of the European Union and of
the European Court of Human Rights. The National Commission welcomes the details
Moreover, while the National Commission welcomes the additions to paragraph (1) of Article 16 (14
that the categories of data on which initial) of the bill.
bear the exchanges are listed in
However, the CNPD regrets that paragraph
clarify which categories of data would be (4) Article 16 (original 14) of the bill
likely to be communicated to which does not specify the categories of data to be
authority and for what purpose. medical and psychological character which would be
                                                                              obtained by the Minister after he has
In the absence of such details, the CNPD shall only grant a permit or authorization to a
unable to assess whether the exchanges requiring, just as it regrets that the origin
data referred to in subsection (5) such data are not specified.
Article 15 (initial 13) respect the principles of
minimization of data and limitation of Is this information that would be obtained
purposes. under the procedure referred to in Article 51
                                                                              of the bill and in particular with regard to
Furthermore, should there be an exchange of the cases referred to in Article 71 of the Criminal Code? Is it
data between the Minister and the authorities that such information is obtained by the
competent national authorities for “prevention, minister to doctors who have
the investigation and observation of offenses delivered the medical certificate referred to in paragraph
penal” when this already seems to be (1) of article 16 (initial 14) of the bill?
provided for by paragraph (3) of article 15 of the draft
of law under examination (see our developments Clarifications as to the origin of the data
under point 3) i. of this notice). therefore deserve to be indicated by the



40
     In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
     Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229,
     December 4, 2015.



                                                                                        149
6 APPENDICES




    authors of the bill. This is all the more so since it has been amended by the authors of the project. The device
    such data constitute categories no longer provides for an "electronic connection"
    particular types of data called “data but a” data transmission system
    sensitive” within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR. and information by electronic means”. GOOD
    It is recalled that for the processing of which the CNPD welcomes that the term "connection
    personal data envisaged, electronic" has been deleted, she regrets the
    Luxembourg law must provide for "lack of precision of the device and reiterates on
    appropriate and specific measures for this point its observations made in its
    safeguarding the rights and freedoms of the opinion of July 8, 2019.
    concerned person ". However, the current wording
    does not allow the National Commission 5. On the competent supervisory authority
    to assess whether this is the case. in case of access by the agents of
                                                                  the Customs and Excise Administration
    4. On the arms register in the arms file

    Amendment n°21 aims to modify article 19 Amendment n°55 aims to modify article
    of the gun registry bill. 52 original of the bill. The CNPD welcomes that
    The National Commission welcomes the fact that the para- the authors of the bill have removed the
    graph (3) of article 21 (initial 19) of the bill reference made to the list of prohibited weapons
    now provides that the gun registry is following its recommendation in its
    remitted to the Minister in the event of termination of the acti- notice of July 8, 2019.
    armorer's speed. Nevertheless, the CNPD regrets
    that the retention period of said register by The amendments made to paragraph
    the gunsmith, who made it possible to ensure a certain (6) of article 54 (initial 52) of the bill
    legal predictability, has been removed. consist of a reformulation of the authority of
                                                               competent control in matters of protection
    In addition, it should be noted that the device does not provide data with regard to the control of
    nor does it provide for the retention period of the provisions of the aforementioned article.
    aforesaid register by the Minister in the event of surrender
    by the gunsmith if he ceases his activity. In this regard, taking into account the observations made
    the absence of such details the Commission by the Council of State in its opinion of 12 July
    national is not in a position to assess whether 2019, it should be noted that the Administration
    the principle of retention limitation is customs and excise, as a rule, is
    respected. in charge of missions for tax purposes but is
                                                               also responsible for certain missions
    It should be noted that paragraph (4) of police purpose, as for example in matters
    Article 21 (original 19) of the bill also has drugs where some customs officers dispose of




                                               150
the quality of judicial police officer. For those referred to in article 40 of the law of 1 August 2018
tax missions, the processing of data relating to the protection of persons
personal character must therefore be made following physical with regard to the processing of data
the provisions of the GDPR, while the personal in criminal matters as well
provisions of the law of August 1, 2018 relating that in terms of national security could
the protection of natural persons to be competent when it is not
with regard to the processing of data of a competent nature only for "the operations of
personnel in criminal matters as well as in the processing of personal data
of national security apply to the processing carried out by the courts of law and order
personal data relating to the judiciary, including the public prosecutor, and
police missions. administrative order in the exercise of their
                                                              judicial functions”. However, such is not the
Under subsection (3) of section 54 case here.
(initial 52) of the bill, officials
of the Customs and Excise Administration Thus decided in Belvaux on February 4, 2021.
have the status of judicial police officers
in the exercise of their functions provided for in The National Commission for the Protection of
this article. Therefore, the initial formulation given
of subsection (6) (original subsection (7))
was accurate. However, modifications Tine A. Larsen
made to paragraph (6) now make President
reference to the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Thierry Lallemang
data protection and general regime Commissioner
on data protection, it is therefore
recommended to refer to the wording which Christophe Buschmann
had originally been used by the authors Commissioner
Bill.
                                                              Marc Lemmer
In any event, it would be incorrect, Commissioner
to consider that the supervisory authority




41
     Parliamentary document 7168/00, page 34, paragraph 2.



                                                                     151
6 APPENDICES


Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7691 amending:
1° of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 2° of the New Code
of civil procedure, 3° of the law of July 7, 1971 on
law enforcement and administrative matters, institution of experts, EC (general regulation on the protection of
of sworn translators and interpreters and supplementing data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which
the legal provisions relating to the swearing in of employees refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
experts, translators and interpreters, 4° of the amended law of the 9 organization of the National Commission for
December 1976 relating to the organization of the notarial profession, 5° data protection and the general system
amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and betting on data protection, the Commission
                                                                         national authority for data protection (here
athletes, 6° of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization
                                                                         after designated the “National Commission”
judiciary, 7° of the amended law of 7 November 1996 on
                                                                         or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with
organization of the courts of the administrative order, 8° of law of the Member State, the national parliament,
the law of December 30, 1981 on compensation in the event of the government and other institutions and
preventive detention inoperative, 9° of the amended law of 15 bodies concerning legislative measures
March 1983 on arms and ammunition, 10° of the amended and administrative law relating to the protection of
of 2 March 1984 on compensation for certain rights and freedoms of natural persons to
victims of bodily injury resulting from an offense with regard to the treatment”.
and the repression of fraudulent insolvency, 11° of the
amended law of December 4, 1990 organizing the By mail dated November 12, 2020,
service of the judicial officers, 12° of the law of January 31 Madam the Minister of Justice invited the
1998 on the approval of adoption services and definition National Commission to decide on the
obligations incumbent on them, 13° of the law of 6 May 1999 draft law amending: 1° of the Code
                                                                         of criminal procedure, 2° of the New Code
on penal mediation and amending
                                                                         of civil procedure, 3° of the law of July 7, 1971
various provisions a) of the amended law of 7 March 1980
                                                                         relating to repressive and administrative matters,
on judicial organization, b) of the insurance code institution of experts, translators and
social services, 14° of the law of 12 November 2002 relating to sworn interpreters and supplementing the
private security and surveillance activities, 15° legal provisions relating to oaths
of the amended law of 7 June 2012 on legal attachés. experts, translators and interpreters, 4° of
(Deliberation n°3/AV3/2021 of 02/10/2021) the amended law of December 9, 1976 relating to
                                                                         the organization of the notariat, 5° of the amended law
                                                                         of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and
                                                                         sports betting, 6° of the amended law of March 7, 1980
                    In accordance with Article 57, paragraph (1), on the judicial organization, 7° of the amended law
                    letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27 of November 7, 1996 on the organization of
                    2016 relating to the protection of persons jurisdictions of the administrative order, 8° of the law
                    physical with regard to the processing of data of December 30, 1981 on compensation
                    of a personal nature and the free movement of persons in the event of ineffective preventive detention,
                    these data, and repealing directive 95/46/9° of the amended law of 15 March 1983 on




                                                           152
arms and ammunition, 10° of the amended data law” and that “[to] this end, the Ministry
of March 2, 1984 relating to compensation for the public must be able to receive requests for
certain victims of bodily injury ministrations or services exercising a pre-
resulting from an offense and the repression of rogative of public power in order to see themselves
fraudulent insolvency, 11° of the amended law communicate information relating to
of 4 December 1990 on the organization of criminal proceedings or the issuance of copies
service of the judicial officers, 12° of the law of the documents which are resulting therefrom”.
January 31, 1998 on the approval of services
of adoption and definition of their obligations As the authors of the bill point out,
incumbent, 13° of the law of 6 May 1999 relating to the "reputable integrity check" aims to allow
penal mediation and amending the State administrations to investigate
various provisions a) of the amended law of “a request for the granting or refusal
March 7, 1980 on the judicial organization, b) of an authorization”. The latter when they
social insurance code, 14° of the law of the instruct such requests “must be
12 November 2002 relating to private activities based on facts established to the requisite legal standard,
guarding and surveillance, 15° of the and of the reports or minutes drawn up by
amended law of 7 June 2012 on the attachés of judicial police officers", who "are a
justice (hereinafter the "draft law"). source recognized for this purpose by case law
                                                      administration”.
According to the explanatory memorandum “[t]he bill has
purpose of specifying the various procedures According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill specifies
current "good repute checks" - "the purposes of the processing carried out in the
provided for in several legal texts as part of the various verification procedures
within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Background, by delimiting the consultation
Justice. ". The "good repute check" proves to be essential and necessary data
for example, necessary in the context of and determining the retention period
recruitment of judicial personnel or data consulted by the authorities
in the context of the issuance of a competent request”. The authors of the bill
of authorization, permit or approval further indicate that the objective of the bill
weapons material. is "to allow any person concerned
                                                      by processing data for the purposes of
In this context, the authors of the integrity control bill, to understand what
specify that “certain administrations and are the different types of data consulted
State services need to know about and for what types of objectives”.
information sometimes subject to professional secrecy
truction or considered sensitive to such background checks or
given the new rules relating to "good repute" processing have undeniably




                                                             153
6 APPENDICES




    significant privacy implications with public creditors
    and data protection, Commission or use in connection with the request
    below will formulate its observations on the authorization of documents or declarations
    as to the issues raised in this respect falsified or misleading, the absence of bankruptcy,
    by the provisions of the bill under notice. lack of criminal conviction, etc. »45.

           I. Introduction According to the explanatory memorandum to the bill,
                                                                                  the absence of a common definition of the concept
                1. On the notion of good repute good repute is justified by the “diversity of
                                                                                  matters which use such a procedure and
    In Luxembourg law, the notion of honorabi- consequently the great differences in
    ity is “polysemous and depends on the materials and the degrees of interference they operate”.
    and of the purposes for which it is made
    ference”42. It is not uncommon to find that While it can be difficult to find a
    the reference made to the notion of “good repute”, a common definition given the diversity of
    is found in different formulations. materials and procedures for verifying
    Indeed, certain national legal provisions or “good repute checks” include
    nals refer to “requirements of repute relating to, the use of different terms implies
    respect", of "guarantees of good repute that each concept has a meaning which is
    pecter” or of own conditions or guarantees.
    of “morality” to be respected”43. Authors
    of the bill also use, If this were not the case, would it not be
    in the explanatory memorandum, sometimes the term preferable to use the same terminology
    "background check" sometimes that of rather than continuing to use for example
    “good repute check”44. the terms "morality", "professional integrity"
                                                                                  sional", "good reputation" or "activities
    As noted by the Council of State, the irreproachable concept "?
    respectability “is essentially used
    to determine the conditions of access to Although it is regrettable that the bill
    a profession, often in connection with sub-opinions, does not offer a common definition
    notions such as "morality", "honesty of the notion of honourability or does not use
    professional", "good reputation" and the same terminology, it should be noted
    "irreproachable activities". In order to determine that it nevertheless frames the investigations
    professional integrity, the laws in question expedited in this regard.
    aim, alongside the criminal record,
    other criteria, often defined negatively, 2. On the legal framework established by the
    such as the absence of the accumulation of bill debts

    42
         V. additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to bill No. 7425 on arms and ammunition, parliamentary document
         n°7425/08, developments under “Amendment 14”.
    43
         See explanatory memorandum to the bill, page 5.
    44
         These are the terms used by the authors of the bill in the explanatory memorandum, page 4.
    45
         V. additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to bill No. 7425 on arms and ammunition, parliamentary document
         n°7425/08, developments under “Amendment 14”.



                                                            154
The bill establishes a legal framework with regard to criminal records (hereinafter the “procedures of
relates to background checks or type 1 background checks”)46.
"good repute checks" to be carried out
within the framework of the laws referred to in the text in The second category of procedures includes
project. background checks that relate to the
                                                                                        communication of an extract from the criminal record,
The authors of the bill specify in the facts relating to a conviction
the statement of the reasons that such a legal framework is criminal for a crime or misdemeanor and for which the
proved necessary because “in many cases, rehabilitation has not already been achieved at the time
law fails to define precisely on which of the introduction of the request, and on the facts
elements carry the verification of antecedents likely to constitute a crime or misdemeanor
or the "honesty check" or which gave rise to the establishment of a lawsuit-
data are taken into account in the verbal police framework, if these facts are the subject of a
of such a procedure. Indeed, the texts criminal prosecution in progress, to the exclusion of
current ones thus do not allow successful candidates who have resulted in a decision of non-suit
or applicants to know exactly what or classification without follow-up (hereinafter the "
data concerning them is consulted by the background check procedures of
competent authorities ". type 2”)47.

It emerges from the said draft law that investigations The third category of procedures concerns
conducted for the purpose of background checks background checks that relate to
can be classified into three categories depending on the communication of a criminal record extract
their degree of intrusion, with regard to the forensic audit, the minutes and reports of
criminal record according to the police concerning the applicant for facts
approvals, permits, authorizations to be issued which have been the subject of a criminal conviction or
according to the bill or positions to be filled, criminalized as a crime or misdemeanor by law, referred to
as contemplated by the bill. in article 563, point 3° of the Penal Code relating to
                                                                                        assault and minor violence, referred to in article
Indeed, the first category of procedures 1st of the modified law of September 8, 2003 on the
brings together background checks that domestic violence (hereafter the “procedures
are based on the communication of a type 3 background check extract”)48.


46
     V. articles 1 relating to the draft law relating to article 8-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, article 2-3° of the draft law relating to article 1251-3 of the New
     Code of Civil Procedure and article 13 of the draft law relating to article 2 of the law of 6 May 1999 on penal mediation, article 3 of the draft law
     law relating to article 1 of the amended law of 7 July 1971 relating to repressive and administrative matters, institution of experts, translators and
     sworn interpreters
47
      V. article 4 of the bill relating to article 16 of the amended law of 9 December 1976 on the organization of the notariat, article 5 of the bill
     relating to Article 11 paragraph (3) of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting, Article 6 of the bill relating to
     articles 76 and 77 of the amended law of 7 March 1980 on the organization of the judiciary, article 7 of the draft law relating to article 90 bis of the amended law of
     November 7, 1996 on the organization of administrative courts, article 11 of the draft law relating to articles 2 and 3 of the amended law of
     4 December 1990 on the organization of the service of judicial officers and article 15 of the bill relating to article 2 of the amended law of
     June 7, 2012 on legal attachés.
48
     V. article 5 of the bill relating to article 11 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting, article
     9 of the bill relating to article 16 of the amended law of 15 March 1983 on arms and ammunition, article 12 of the bill relating to article 3 of the law
     of January 31, 1988 on the approval of adoption services and definition of the obligations incumbent on them and article 14 of the draft law relating to
     Article 8bis of the law of 12 November 2002 relating to private security and surveillance activities.



                                                                                                    155
6 APPENDICES




    It is regrettable that these three procedures note that there is a common legal framework, in
    are not more standardized in French law, with regard to investigations
    concerns the actors who carry out the administrative procedures whose purpose is to verify
    administrative investigations and with regard to the background of a person wishing
    the procedures for transmitting information to access certain professions or seeking
    from such investigations. certain authorizations or approvals.
                                                                     The French system is based on articles L.114-
    Indeed, it should be noted that either Ministry 1 and L.234-1 of the Internal Security Code
    public itself conducts the French administrative investigations (hereinafter the “CSI”) which set the framework
    either he communicates the information, general of the administrative inquiries then the
    necessary for the administrative investigation, in the middle of these investigations are completed
    Minister of Justice50 or Minister of Finance51. by decrees.
    An identical diagram is therefore not reproduced
    for all procedures. Article L.114-1 of the CSI provides that “[t]he
                                                                     administrative decisions on recruitment,
    In addition, it should be noted that when assignment, tenure, authorization,
    the Public Ministry expedites the accreditation or authorization surveys, provided for by
    administrative, the latter renders at the end of these legislative or regulatory provisions,
    ci a notice, the elements of the content of which are not concerning either the public jobs participating
    not detailed in the draft text. When the exercise of sovereignty missions
    Minister of Justice or the Minister of Finance of the State, either public or private jobs
    expedite administrative investigations, these relating to the field of security or
    are transmitted by the Public Ministry the defenses, either private jobs or activities
    information covered by the bill. The regulated private CNPD in the areas
    will come back to this below in point VI. of this notice. games, bets and races, i.e. access to
                                                                     protected areas because of the activity that takes place there
    Thus, notwithstanding the diversity of materials, there is exercise, either the use of materials or products
    place of regret that a common structure has presented a dangerous nature, can
    could be identified by the authors of the bill, be preceded by administrative inquiries
    with regard to the entities which diligent the intended to verify that the behavior of the
    administrative quests and procedures for trans- natural or legal persons interested
    mission of data from such surveys. is not incompatible with the exercise of
                                                                     functions or missions envisaged”. THE
                  3. On the legal framework in France articles R.114-2 to R.114-5 of the CSI list the
                                                                     professions or qualifications that can give
    For comparison with the proposed system, the surveys mentioned in article L.114-1 will take place
    by the text under notice it is interesting to from the CSI.



    49
         V. articles 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill.
    50
         V. articles 5, 9 and 14 of the bill.
    51
         See section 5 of the bill.



                                                               156
For example, it should be noted that the National Service for Administrative Investigations
may give rise to such security investigations57 (hereinafter the “SNEAS”) and that a
“natural persons employed for automated processing of personal data
participate in a private personal surveillance activity called “Automation of the
and guarding”52, the “[r]ecruitment of centralized consultation of information
members of administrative jurisdictions, and data” (ACCReD) allows the SNEAS
magistrates of the judiciary and to carry out the automatic consultation and,
proximity judges”53 as well as the decisions, if any, simultaneous processing of
relating to the authorization to “practice the personal data to check whether the
gambling and games of chance in casinos the person concerned is registered there58.
authorised”54, decisions relating to
the approval of “directors and members If the authors of the bill have made the choice
management committees of casinos authorized not to draw inspiration from the French approach,
as well as people employed in the i.e. provide a common legal framework,
casino gaming rooms”55 or even the National Commission wonders if it does not
authorizations or approvals relating to the “[a] would however not be relevant that the investigations
acquisition, possession, manufacture, trade, administrative are carried out by the same
intermediation, import, export, and sole authority like the French SNEAS and
transfer and transit of war material, that only notices reporting on the results
of weapons, ammunition and their elements of the investigation are communicated to the authorities
of any category; use, exploitation, concerned.
export and transit of war materials and
assimilated materials (…)”56. Furthermore, it is recommended that the authors of the
                                                                            draft law to be inspired by certain provisions
Articles L.234-1, R.234-1 of the CSI come from French situations in particular in that they
specify the files that will be consulted when listing the files that can be
of an administrative inquiry referred to in the article consulted during the administrative inquiries
L.114-1 of the CSI, as well as the methods of access to them, as well as the categories of data to be
such files. personal character that would be collected
                                                                            during such investigations in the event that the
It is also interesting to note that the data from such surveys would be
administrative investigations are carried out by retained59.



52
     Article R.114-2, 1°, c) of the CSI
53
     Article R.114-2, 2° of the CSI
54
     R.114-3, 1°, a) of the CSI
55
     Article R.114-3, 2°, a) of the CSI
56
     Article R.114-5, 1° of the CSI
57
     V. Decree No. 2017-668 of April 27, 2017 creating a service with national competence called the "National Investigation Service
     security administration.
58
     V. Decree No. 2017-1224 of August 3, 2017 creating an automated processing of personal data called “Automation
     central consultation of information and data” (ACCReD).
59
     V. articles R.236-1 and following and decree n° 2017-1224 of August 3, 2017 creating an automated processing of personal data
     personnel called “Automation of centralized consultation of information and data” (ACCReD)



                                                                                     157
6 APPENDICES




           II. On the principle of the legality of the authorities to carry out the administrative inquiry remains
               processing carried out within the framework identical to the nature of the data processed
               verification procedures for the purposes of prevention and detection of
               background or “control of criminal offences, investigations and prosecutions
               of good repute” in the matter or the execution of sanctions
                                                                     criminal. In such a context, it is necessary to
    As a preliminary remark, it is necessary to question the articulation of the provisions
    note that the data collected, in the GDPR with those of the law of August 1, 2018
    framework of administrative investigations, relate to the protection of natural persons
    initially collected and processed by the Police with regard to the processing of personal data
    Grand Ducal60, by the Public Prosecutor61 or staff in criminal matters as well as in matters
    by the State National Security Intelligence Service.
    (hereinafter the “SRE”)62 for prevention purposes
    and detection of criminal offences. This problem is also illustrated in
    of investigation and prosecution in this matter Article 11, paragraph (6), of the amended law
    or execution of criminal penalties. These of April 20, 1977 on games of chance and
    initial processing is subject to the law of the 1st sports betting, as modified by article 5 of the
    August 2018 relating to the protection of persons bill. These provisions, in fact,
    physical with regard to the processing of data expressly referring to the law of 1 August
    of a personal nature in criminal matters as well as 2018 relating to the protection of persons
    than in terms of national security. with regard to data processing
                                                                     of a personal nature in criminal matters as well
    However, it should be noted that in matters of national security.
    processing of personal data
    implemented within the framework of the procedures of 1. On Article 6 paragraph (3) of the
    background check or “GDPR check”
    of good repute” will be subject to the GDPR then
    that the purpose pursued is the recruitment of a The authors of the bill are to be congratulated
    candidate for one of the positions referred to in the text under on the fact that, from a security point of view
    notice, or the issuance of an authorization, of a legal, the bill establishes a basis
    permit or approval, as referred to in the legal draft for investigations carried out in the
    of law. as part of the background check or
                                                                     “fitness check”, in accordance with
    Thus, although the purposes of the processing Article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR.
    envisaged within the framework of the draft law, be
    for administrative purposes, the very nature Indeed, the processing of personal data
    data transmitted and then used personal collected and processed within the framework



    60
         V. articles 9 and 14 of the bill.
    61
         V. articles 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill.
    62
         V. articles 9 and 14 of the bill.



                                                               158
performance of a mission of public interest This article provides for a particular constraint
or relating to the exercise of official authority relating to the lawfulness of data processing
of which the controller is responsible for the processing necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
must have a legal basis in accordance with or for the performance of a task in the public interest
in Article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR, read or subject to the exercise of official authority
together with its paragraph (1), letters c) which is entrusted to the data controller.
and (e)63, which provides that “[t]he basis of In both cases, the basis and
processing referred to in points (c) and (e) of paragraph 1, the purposes of the data processing must
is defined by: specifically be defined either by the law of
                                                                                 the European Union, or by the law of the State
vs. Union law; or member to which the controller
d. the law of the Member State to which the is subject.
   controller is submitted.
   The purposes of the processing are defined In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies
   in this legal basis or, insofar as it should "(...) belong to Union law
   concerns the processing referred to in paragraph or the right of a Member State to determine
   1, point e), are necessary for the execution of the purpose of the processing. Moreover, this right
   of a mission of public interest or falling within could specify the general conditions
   of the exercise of the official authority of which this regulation is governing the lawfulness of the
   invested the controller. This processing of personal data,
   legal basis may contain provisions laying down specifications to determine the
   specific to adapt the application of the controllers, the type of data to be
   rules of this Regulation, among others: the personal characteristics subject to processing,
   terms and conditions governing the lawfulness of data subjects, entities
   processing by the controller; to which the personal data
   the types of data that may be communicated, the limitations of
   treatment; the people concerned; the purpose, storage period and other
   entities to whom the personal data measures to ensure lawful processing and
   staff can be communicated and loyal (...)”.
   the purposes for which they may
   being; purpose limitation; Recital (41) of the GDPR further states that
   conservation; and operations and procedures “[w]here this Regulation refers to
   processing, including measures seeking a legal basis or legislative measure,
   to guarantee lawful and fair processing, such that this does not necessarily mean that
   than those provided for in other situations the adoption of a legislative act by a parliament
   particular treatment as provided for is required, without prejudice to the obligations
   Chapter IX. provided for under the Constitutional Order of


63
     Article 6, paragraph (1), letters c) and e) provides that: “Processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the conditions
     following is met: (…) c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
     (…) e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
     controller; (…)”.



                                                                                           159
6 APPENDICES




    the Member State concerned. However, this in which the data from
    legal basis or this legislative measure of administrative investigations? What about the
    should be clear and precise and its application Public prosecutor, will he also keep a register
    should be foreseeable for litigants, specific “administrative inquiries” or is it
    in accordance with the case law of the Court what the processing of data relating thereto will do, the
    of Justice of the European Union and of the Court if applicable, part of the database “
    European human rights. ". JU-CHA”?

    By virtue of the aforementioned provisions, these bases If such were to be the case, the National Commission
    legal should establish provisions considers essential that the creation of such
    to determine, among other things, registers is provided for by this draft
    the types of data processed, the persons law. The legal provisions creating
    concerned, the entities to which the data of the said registers must contain the elements
    can be communicated and for which mentioned above. On this point, it is also
    purposes, the retention periods of the referred to the French legal provisions which
    data or even the operations and procedures govern the registers of data from the
    treatment. administrative investigations64. If such files
                                                                                should exist, it is recommended that authors
    Although the legal basis establishing the bill differs from the French system.
    background check procedures or
    2. On the principles identified by the
    data processed, data subjects case law of the European Court
    as well as the entities to which the data concerning human rights and
    may be communicated and for which of the Court of Justice of the Union
    purposes, the National Commission notes that European
    certain elements relating to the processing of
    data are not sufficiently specified The National Commission must point out
    or are not specified at all (e.g. the fundamental importance of the principle of
    the retention period of the data) in the lawfulness of the processing of personal data
    law Project. personal which must be read in light of the article
                                                                                8 paragraph (2) of the European Convention
    In addition, entities that conduct human rights reviews regarding the right to
    investigations, as provided for by the Privacy Project, as well as Article
    law, will they be required to keep a register which 52 paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of
    will bring together all the data from fundamental rights in the European Union.
    such surveys? The Minister of Justice or the In substance, these two articles, together
    Minister of Finance keep a register with the consistent case law of the Court




    64
         V. articles R.236-1 to R.236-10 of the CSI relating to the processing of personal data called “Administrative inquiries related to the
         public security ".



                                                          160
European Union of Human Rights, retain national law which presents certain
than data processing performed by a feature. The expression “provided for by
public authority may constitute interference with the law” therefore implies, according to the case law of
in the right to respect for private life or limit the European Court of Human Rights
the exercise of the right to data protection. that domestic legislation should use terms
This interference or limitation may be justified clearly enough to indicate to all in a manner
provided that it: sufficient in what circumstances and under
                                                                                what conditions it empowers the power
- either provided for by a law accessible to the public to resort to measures affecting
  data subjects and foreseeable as to the rights protected by the Convention66. There
  its repercussions, i.e. formulated with internal legislation, must be “accessible to
  sufficient precision (A); persons concerned and foreseeable as to its
- be necessary in a democratic society - repercussions”67. A rule is foreseeable "if
  tick, subject to the principle of proportion- it is formulated with sufficient precision
  ality (B); to enable anyone – benefiting from
- respects the essential content of the right to possible appropriate assistance –
  Data protection ; to adapt their behaviour”68 as well as “[t]
- effectively meets the objectives and degree of precision required of the “law” in this respect
  of general interest or in need of protection will depend on the subject in question. »69.
  rights and freedoms of others.
                                                                                In order to meet these accessibility criteria and
It is more precisely necessary to examine whether the two predictability of the "law", on the one hand, and thus
first conditions are met in this case. limit any arbitrary behavior
                                                                                and abusive behavior by public authorities,
       A. On the first condition on the other hand, national law may therefore provide
                                                                                and regulate more specifically the processing
According to the case law of the European Court of personal data carried out
of human rights, an interference with the law by such authorities. This legal framework
respect for privacy is “provided for would also be a guarantor of the principle of
the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph (2) legal certainty for the benefit of persons
of the European Convention on the Rights of Data Subjects, candidates for the positions referred to
man65, only if it is based on an article by the draft text, or applicants for a



65
     Article 8 paragraph (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that: “There can be no V. interference by a public authority
     in the exercise of this right only insofar as this interference is prescribed by law and that it constitutes a measure which, in a society
     democracy, is necessary for national security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country, the maintenance of order and the
     prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or morals, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others”.
66
     CouEDH, Fernández Martínezc. Spain [GC], n°56030/07, para. 117.
67
     CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; V. also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and
     CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.
68
     CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; V. also CouEDH, Malone c. 8691/79, 26 April 1985, para.
     66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.
69
     CoEDH, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; V. also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,
     6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.



                                                                                          161
6 APPENDICES




    authorization, permit or approval provided for by and imposing a minimum of requirements so
    the bill under notice. The legal certainty that the persons whose data have been
    constitutes a general principle of EU law retained have sufficient safeguards
    European Union, requiring in particular that a system enabling them to effectively protect their
    regulations entailing personal data consequences against the
    unfavorable to individuals is clear risks of abuse as well as against any access and
    and precise and foreseeable application for any unlawful use of such data”73.
    litigants. The regulations should allow
    interested parties to know exactly Therefore, insofar as the processing
    the extent of the obligations it imposes on them, of data implemented within the framework of
    must allow them to know without ambiguity administrative investigations, covered by the project
    their rights and obligations as well as their law under notice, constitute an interference
    allow them to make their arrangements in accordance with the right to respect for the privacy of
    consequence70. candidates or applicants for authorization,
                                                                                      a permit or approval, as referred to in the
    This is the reason why, the Court of draft law under opinion, this one should frame
    European Court of Human Rights more specifically within such processing
    of its case law affirms that "the right, in accordance with the case law of the Court
    should offer some European protection of human rights. gold, strength
    against arbitrary attacks on power is to note that the bill under
    public to the rights guaranteed by section 8 notice, as amended is, in places, not
    paragraph 1”71. Therefore, the legislation drafted with sufficient precision74. There
    internal “must define the scope and modalities CNPD will return more specifically to this
    exercise of power with point clarity in its developments under the points
    sufficient – taking into account the legitimate aim IV. and V. below.
    pursued – to provide the individual with a
    adequate protection against arbitrariness”. B. On the second condition
    Court of Justice of the European Union considers
    that in the event of a limitation of the protection of It is clear from the case law of the Court of
    personal data or the right to justice of the European Union and the Court
    respect for private life, a legal text “must European human rights that
    provide clear and precise rules governing the grounds invoked by public authorities
    the scope and application of the measure in question to justify a limitation on the exercise of the right



    70
         See e.g. Court of Human Rights, Aurubis Balgaria of March 31, 2011, C-546/09, points 42-43; Judgment, Alfamicro v. Commission of 14 November 2017, T-831/14,
         dots 155-157.
    71
         EDH Court, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95 para 56.
    72
         Ibidem. See also EDH Court, Malone c. United Kingdom, series A n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; EDH Court, Fernández Martínez c. Spain
         CE:ECHR:2014:0612JUD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court EDH, Liberty and others v. 58243/00 of July 1, 2008, para. 62 and
         63; EDH Court, Rotaru c. Romania, App. No. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court EDH, S and Marper c. United Kingdom, Applications No. 30562/04 and
         30566/04, of December 4, 2008 para. 99.; Dimitrov-Kazakov v. Bulgaria n°11379/03, of February 10, 2011.
    73
         Judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraph 54.
    74
         In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law,
         Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619.



                                                               162
data protection, for example on surveillance) in order to reduce to a
personnel or interference with the law at the “acceptable” level/proportionate the risks
respect for private life must be relevant posed by the measure envisaged with regard to
and sufficient75 and that it must be demonstrated that the fundamental rights and freedoms of
that there are no other methods less concerned individuals. »78.
intrusive76. The notion of necessity, as
as interpreted by the Court of Justice of the Union In this case, in the absence of such details
European, implies that the measures in the bill, what would be the
adopted are less intrusive than the guarantees envisaged by the authors of the project
other options to achieve the same goal. of law under opinion? Are there no methods
Moreover, according to the case law of the Court less intrusive than the system provided for by the
European Court of Human Rights, for draft text?
meet the necessity test, the interference
should also be proportionate. In With particular regard to
its “Handbook of European law in matters of administrative inquiries which would not
data protection", the Rights Agency only on the communication of an extract
fundamentals of the European Union has a criminal record, there is reason to wonder about
that “[p]roportionality requires that one of the consequences that such a mechanism is
measure of interference in the exercise of rights likely to cause persons
protected by the European Court of the concerned.
human rights does not go beyond
what is necessary to achieve the goal The duplication of information concerning
legitimately prosecuted. Important factors a person's criminal record
to be taken into account when making the relevant assessment in the hands of different
of the proportionality test are the scope authorities could be one of them. In
of the interference, in particular the number of effects, the CNPD wonders whether at the end of the
data subjects, and the safeguards or administrative inquiries carried out by
warnings put in place to limit its the Minister of Justice or the Minister of
scope or its negative effects on the rights of Finance, of the data contained in the
individuals”77. files held by the Grand Ducal Police, by
                                                                            the Public Ministry or the SRE would be brought
The European Data Protection Supervisor to appear again in a file kept
data further indicates that “[a] review by the Minister of Justice or the Minister of
proportionality generally assumes Finance. In order to avoid duplication of such
to determine what “guarantees” must be given and the keeping of some kind of new
accompany a measure (which would be carried by “case bis” by the Minister of Justice or the


75
     V. the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 4 December 2008, S. and Marper c. United Kingdom.
76
     V. the judgments of the Court of Justice of 9 November 2010, C-92/09, Volker und Markus Schecke GbR/Land Hessen, and C-93/09, Eifert/Land Hessen
     and Bundesansalt für Landwirtschaft und Ernährung.
77
     See page 45 of the “Handbook on European data protection law” of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
78
     See page 11 of the “EDPS Guidelines on the assessment of the proportionality of measures limiting fundamental rights
     privacy and the protection of personal data”.



                                                                                     163
6 APPENDICES




    Minister of Finance, a method minus such an investigation given the nature of the
    intrusive to achieve the same purpose should processed data.
    be preferred to the system currently planned
    by the bill. Furthermore, it should be noted that this
                                                                               advice mechanism of the Public Ministry is
    Thus, it is necessary to draw the attention of the authors already planned for some of the
    of the bill on the proposal made by the background check procedures
    Council of State, in its additional opinion referred to in the draft text80. The Commission
    of 19 December 2020 relating to the national bill considers that it would be preferable to
    No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition79, concerning transposing this system to all
    the integrity check referred to in Article 14 background check procedures
    of the aforementioned bill. provided for by the bill.

    Instead of verification procedure III. On the origin of the data
    of good repute established by the said bill,
    the Council of State proposes the mechanism of a 1. Article 8, paragraph (1), of the law
    “detailed opinion of the State prosecutor dated 1 August 2018 relating to the pro-
    referring both to the criminal record and to the protection of natural persons
    all minutes and reports with regard to the processing of data
    relevant to which the State prosecutor may arise of a personal nature in
    have access, and again to information on criminal matters as well as on
    transmitted to him by the Grand National Security Police
    ducal”.
                                                                               The National Commission understands that the
    This system would avoid duplication of data collected and processed by the Minister
    data concerning the background of Justice, the Minister of Finance or even
    legal proceedings of the person concerned while the General State Prosecutor within the framework of the
    allowing the Minister of Justice or the background check procedures or
    Minister of Finance to obtain “good repute” information, come from
    necessary and relevant, in the form of a file kept by the Grand-Ducal Police81, the
    opinion of the Public Ministry, in order to allow it Public Ministry82 and the SRE83.
    to assess their “respectability”. Such
    mechanism would still have the advantage that It should be noted that these data have
    the administrative investigation would be entrusted to a summer initially collected by the authorities
    repressive authority, the Public Ministry, and not mentioned above for the purposes of prevention and
    not to one or more administrations. Indeed, detection of criminal offences, investigations
    such authority would be more appropriate to conduct and prosecute in the matter or to enforce

    79
         See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020, parliamentary document no. 7425/08, developments under "Amendment 14".
    80
         V. articles 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill.
    81
         Articles 9 and 14 of the bill.
    82
         Articles 1, 2-3°, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 13 and 15.
    83
         Articles 9 and 14 of the bill.



                                                          164
of criminal sanctions and will be within the framework of its missions (…) to the administrations in
bill processed for further purposes to the extent that such information appears
different. useful for the accomplishment of their missions
                                                                          respective. »85.
The CNPD welcomes the fact that such a legal basis is
provided for by the mechanism under opinion in accordance It is to be welcomed the fact that the bill
to the provisions of Article 8, paragraph (1), of expressly provides:
the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing - the communication of data by the
personal data in public prosecution matters to the Minister of Justice or
criminal law and national security. to the Minister of Finance as part of the
                                                                            background check procedures
This article provides that “[t]he data to or from “good repute checks” while at this
personal data collected by the authorities no legal provision provided
competent for the purposes set out in such communication; And
article 1 cannot be processed for purposes - the processing of such data by the Ministry
other than those set forth therein, unless such public for the purposes of administrative investigations,
processing is authorized by Union law as provided for by the mechanism under notice.
European Union or by a provision of law
Luxembourgish. ". Finally, and in order to allow people
                                                                          concerned to understand the extent and
Nevertheless, it should be noted that the basis of the administrative investigation, even if it were
legal, under notice, seems to establish a regime not preferable to indicate in the bill
special in relation to the provisions of the Chapter that the data collected during the surveys
2, section 2, of the law of 22 February 2018 on administrative matters come from files kept
the exchange of personal data and by the Grand Ducal Police, the Public Prosecutor
information in police matters, and to those or the SRE? On this point the authors of the project
provided for by article 9 paragraph (2) of the law of law could be inspired by the legislation
amended on July 5, 2016 relating to French reorganization86.
of the ERS.
                                                                          As for the files kept by the Grand-Police
Indeed, these provisions have respectively ducal, it should be noted that the bill
for the purpose of regulating the transmission of such n°7741 amending 1° of the amended law
given by the Grand-Ducal Police to others on 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police,
administrations as part of the 2° verification of the amended law of 5 July 2016 on
respectability, and communication by the SRE reorganization of the SRE and 3° of the Penal Code, has
“[d]information collected in the framework was filed on December 30, 2020. Said project


84
     V. parliamentary document n°6975 on the draft law relating to the exchange of personal data and information relating to
     police, comments of the authors of the bill concerning articles 26 and following of the bill.
85
     V. Article 9 paragraph (2) of the amended law of July 5, 2016 reorganizing the SRE.
86
     V. our developments under point I.3 of this notice.



                                                                                    165
6 APPENDICES




    of law aims in particular to regulate the collection of personal data
    processing of personal data in the performance of the essential tasks of the
    carried out in the files of the Grand-Minister Public Police and the judicial courts”.
    ducale, and more precisely in the file
    central. According to the judicial control authority, the application
                                                                               tion “JU-CHA” would constitute a treatment of
    Particular attention should be paid to separate data by “going beyond treatment-
    on access to the passive part of the central file. procedure-based data ments
    Access to it is, in fact, strictly limited to criminal cases” because this would facilitate “the exploitation
    purposes listed in paragraph (19) of Art.
    ticle 43-2 of bill no. 7741 (investigations based on separate legal proceedings” and
    are not covered) and is would allow “reconciliations between these
    subject to the approval of the State Attorney General. different data processing operations with
    Therefore, the authors of the bill should have related purposes”. The conditions and the
    ensure the proper consistency and articulation of the terms of this data processing are not
    between the two draft texts. not provided for by law.

                2. The so-called “JU-CHA” database In accordance with developments under the
                                                                               item II. of this notice, such details
    It should be noted that the so-called database should be provided for by law in order to
    "JU-CHA" is currently regulated by the confer greater legal certainty
    only law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection of litigants. The Council of State has moreover
    of natural persons with regard to the processing justly noted, in its additional opinion
    personal data in the aforementioned matter relating to bill n°7425, that the
    criminal law and national security. problem of "good repute control"
                                                                               “refers to that of the legal basis of the bases
    In its opinion of July 31, 2020 on the so-called “Jucha” data application. If holding these
    “JU-CHA”, the judicial control authority files had to receive a legal basis, we
    clarifies that “[t]here is no doubt that the could envisage a system in which the
    data processing carried out by State prosecutors is invited to issue an opinion
    authorities competent in criminal matters as well as on the dangerousness of the applicant, including
    that in matters of national security constitute consideration of information drawn from the minutes
    an interference with the right to respect for life and the relationships referred to it”87.
    privacy and the right to data protection
    and that the penal provisions, in particular Thus, in the event that the Minister of
    the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, Justice would intend to legislate on this point, and
    constitute a sufficient legal basis for taking into account the interaction between the application




    87
         See additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020, parliamentary document no. 7425/08, developments under "Amendment 14".



                                                          166
"JU-CHA" and the provisions under notice, the complete criminal convictions cannot
authors of the bill will have to ensure that be held only under the control of the authority
the text is articulated with the project under opinion. public”.

       IV. On the processing of data in the absence of precision in the text under notice
           personal character relating to or by the authors of the bill in the
           criminal convictions and comments on the articles, the Commission
           offenses or national security measures wonders what would be the
           related safeguards that would be provided?

For the purposes of verifying good repute, the project Given the nature of the data that would be
of law provides that the processing carried out collected as well as the level of risk related to
will relate to the personal data the loss of confidentiality of such data
relating to criminal convictions and and their potential impact on individuals
offenses and more specifically on the data concerned, it is essential that such
relating to the criminal record (2) and on the facts guarantees are provided for in the draft law.
likely to constitute a felony or misdemeanor
or relating to a criminal conviction for Such safeguards should be more
felony or misdemeanor (3). However, it should be remembered that are particularly provided for procedures
that this data can only be processed for background checks of the type
in compliance with the conditions referred to in Articles 2 and 3, although these are not based
10 GDPR (1). only on the extract from the criminal record and
                                                                              are the most intrusive from the point of view of
            1. On compliance with the provisions of the privacy of the persons concerned. In
               article 10 of the GDPR effect, they will see their data, relating
                                                                              criminal convictions or facts
Article 10 of the GDPR provides that “[t]he likely to constitute criminal offenses
processing of criminal personal data, to be consulted or communicated
relating to criminal convictions and to the Minister of Justice, or the Minister of
offenses or related security measures Finances for purposes unrelated to those
based on Article 6(1) cannot for which this data was collected
be carried out only under the control of the authority initially88.
public, or if the processing is authorized by the
Union law or by the law of a Member State However, it would be advisable to avoid a duplication of
which provides appropriate safeguards for such data in the hands of multiple
rights and freedoms of data subjects. ". authorities89, or to avoid a multiplicity of
The said article further specifies that "[a]ny registry access to such data, whereas this makes



88
     Reference is made to our comments in point II. and III. of this notice.
89
     The latter would have, if necessary, at the end of the background check procedures, copies of police reports, extracts
     minutes, judgments, extracts from criminal records, or even, in certain cases, “necessary information” provided by the SRE.



                                                                                        167
6 APPENDICES




    run an increased risk of illegitimate access to a common denominator for all
    such data. background check procedures
                                                                                           provided by the bill, nuances are,
    Therefore, as indicated above, however, to distinguish between the procedures
    it would be better to implement a type 1 (A) background check,
    background check system or type 2 (B) and type 3 (C).
    of “good repute” based on a
    detailed opinion of the State prosecutor, such as A. On the verification procedures
    this is apparent from Articles 4, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the Type 1 Antecedents Project
    of law.
                                                                                                        To. On newsletter communication
    The CNPD therefore considers it essential that N°2 of the criminal record
    guarantees are provided by the authors
    Bill. Transmission of an opinion For the purposes of the appointment of expert, translator
    detailed statement of the Public Prosecutor instead and of sworn interpreter, in matters
    transmissions currently provided for by law enforcement and administrative91, or issuing
    the bill, as suggested by the Mediator Accreditation Council92, or the accreditation of
    of State in his additional opinion of the 19 restorative justice facilitator93, the Minister
    December 2020 relating to Bill N°7425 of the Justice will request, for each of these
    on weapons and ammunition,90 could be one of the procedures, whether the applicant provides a
    between them. Bulletin No. 2 of his criminal record.

                 2. On the processing of data relating to In fact, the bill specifies that the Minister
                    tives to the criminal record of Justice “in accordance with article 8
                                                                                           paragraph 1, of the amended law of March 29
    In the Luxembourg legal order, the 2013 relating to the organization of the criminal record
    communication of information relating to may read the registrations
    court decisions is made by issuing bulletin number 2 of the criminal record of the
    extracts from the criminal record in accordance with the applicant to verify that the background
    to the amended law of March 29, 2013 relating to judicial proceedings of the latter are not
    the organization of the criminal record. This law incompatible with the exercise of the functions "
    creates several newsletters with one of the experts, translators, interpreters, mediator
    breakdown of listings found on or restorative justice facilitator.
    respective bulletins.
                                                                                           However, there is reason to wonder about the per-
    If it appears that the processing of an extract complies with the reference to Article 8 paragraph (1) of
    national or foreign criminal record is the amended law of 29 March 2013 relating to the organization

    90
         See parliamentary document no. 7425/08, developments under “Amendment 14”.
    91
         V. article 3 of the draft law relating to article 1 of the amended law of 7 July 1971 relating to repressive and administrative matters, institution of experts,
         sworn translators and interpreters.
    92
         V. article 2-3° of the draft law relating to article 1251-3 of the New Code of Civil Procedure and article 13 of the draft law relating to article 2 of the law of
         6 May 1999 relating to penal mediation.
    93
         V. article 1 of the bill relating to article 8-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.



                                                                   168
nization of the criminal record94. This article re- European or of a third State, the Minister of
may also refer to the Grand-Ducal regulation of Justice may ask him to submit an extract
July 23, 2016 fixing the list of authorities of the criminal record or a similar document
and legal persons governed by public law that may be issued by the competent public authority of the
ask for a bulletin N°2 or N°3 from the register of the countries of which he is a national”.
diciary with the written or electronic agreement of
the data subject (hereinafter the “regulation It is further specified that subject to
Grand-Ducal of 23 July 2016”). of the applicant's agreement, the "Minister may
                                                                                also send a reasoned request to the
Indeed, if the will of the authors of the draft law Attorney General of State with a view to obtaining
is to allow the Minister of Justice to obtain an extract from the criminal record of the authority
keep communication of bulletin No. 2 by the competent Mi- of the Member State whose applicant
then this should be clearly reflected in the nationality”.
ment in the bill. Furthermore, such
clarifications would constitute a sufficient legal basis The National Commission is pleased that
health in order to allow the Minister of Justice such provisions to be made and includes
to obtain bulletin No. 2 from the applicant. In such a way that these would apply in accordance
case, the agreement of the applicant would appear super- European legal provisions96 or
tatory while the communication of such a bull- international in force in the matter.
tin would then have a legal basis.
                                                                                Reference is made to the comments made in
In any case, if the authors of the project point a., above, with regard to the problem-
of law were to maintain such provisions, matic of a double legal basis as to the
these would prove to be superfluous in terms of communication of an extract from the criminal record.
concerns section 1 of the bill with regard to the
provisions of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 B. On verification procedures
July 201695. type 2 history

             b. On the communication of an extract It should be noted that the State prosecutor
                general foreign criminal record may become aware97 or understand
                                                                                communicate the "criminal record" to the minister
The draft law provides that “if the applicant is from the Justice98 within the framework of the procedures
national of another Member State of the Union for the purposes of recruitment covered by:

94
     Article 8, paragraph (1) of the amended law of March 29, 2013 on the organization of the criminal record provides that "[t]he bulletin No. 2 of a
     natural or legal person is issued on request: 1) to State administrations, municipal administrations and legal entities
     public seized, within the framework of their legal missions, of a request presented by the natural or legal person concerned, which gave
     his agreement in writing or electronically so that the bulletin N ° 2 is delivered directly to the administration or to the legal person of
     public Law. The list of administrations and legal persons governed by public law and the grounds for an application for issuance are set by regulation.
     grand-ducal”.
95
     Article 1 point 7) of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 23 July 2016 provides that: “[t]he bulletin No. 2 may be issued on request and with the agreement
     expressly in writing or electronically from the person concerned: (…) to the Minister having Justice in his attributions for the instruction of:
     requests relating to experts, translators and sworn interpreters (…)”
96
     V. the computerized system for the exchange of information on criminal records (the "ECRIS system").
97
     V. articles 4, 6, 7, 11 and 15 of the bill.
98
     See section 5 of the bill.



                                                                                           169
6 APPENDICES




    - Article 16 of the amended law of 9 December However, as regards the issue of an extract
      1976 relating to the organization of the notariat99; Luxembourg criminal record, there is
    - article 11 paragraph (3) of the amended law of to regret that the bulletin number of the register
      April 20, 1977 on games of chance and legal betting is not specified by the text in
      sportsmen100: project.
    - Articles 76 and 77 of the amended law of March 7
      1980 on the organization of the judiciary101; In order to respect the principle of foreseeability and
    - article 90 bis of the amended law of November 7 of clarification to which any text must comply
      1996 on the organization of legal or regulatory jurisdictions105, it is essential that the
      the administrative order102; authors of the bill specify the number of
    - Articles 2 and 3 of the amended law on the 4 bulletin of the criminal record which would be covered by
      December 1990 organizing the aforementioned provisions.
      service of judicial officers103; And
    - Article 2 of the amended law of 7 June 2012 on With regard to Article 11, paragraph (3),
      the legal attachés. of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of
                                                                                   chance and sports betting, as modified by the
    These articles provide that the draft law prosecutor, the National Commission deduces
    General of State may take cognizance of the provisions of Article 1 point 7) of the Regulation
    “criminal record” or that the Minister of the Grand Ducal dated 23 July 2016106 that it would be
    Justice can ask the Public Ministry for bulletin N°2. If this were to be the case, then
    communication of the "criminal record" and whether this should be expressly indicated in the
    “the applicant is a national of a device State under opinion.
    member of the European Union or of a State
    third parties, the Public Prosecutor may ask him As for the issuance of a criminal record
    the delivery of a criminal or criminal record extract for nationals of another State
    a similar document issued by the authority of a member of the European Union or of a State
    competent public authority of the country or countries of which it is a third party, the CNPD understands that it is the applicant
    has nationality”. who will directly provide said document.

    The National Commission is pleased that Contrary to the procedure for verifying
    such details are provided by the type 1 history, the provisions relating to
    authors of the bill. the background check procedure



    99
          Article 4 of the bill.
    100
          Article 5 of the draft law (regarding authorization to exercise employment in connection with games of chance).
    101
          Article 6 of the bill.
    102
          Article 7 of the bill.
    103
          Article 11 of the bill.
    104
          Article 15 of the bill.
    105
          In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015.
    106
          Article 1 point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of July 23, 2016 provides that “bulletin N°2 can be issued on request and with the agreement
          expressly in writing or electronically from the person concerned to the Minister having Justice in his or her attributions for the instruction of the
          applications relating to games of chance”.



                                                             170
type 2 do not specify that, if any, the same person and can only be issued to
the Minister of Justice may “address an authority listed in article 6 of the amended law
reasoned request to the Attorney General of State of March 29, 2013 relating to the organization of the
in order to obtain an extract from the criminal record. This bulletin is, for example,
of the competent authority of the State issued to the judicial authorities within the framework
member of which the applicant is a national”. of a criminal proceeding.

There is therefore reason to wonder about the reasons The authors of the bill justify such a
such differences and whether a standardization communication taking into account the “obligation
of all three procedures on this point of the State to guarantee in all circumstances the
would not be appropriate. welfare and rights of the child, the procedure
                                                                                      criminal background check
        C. On verification procedures is intended to inform the Minister of
           a Justice type 3 background on seriousness, integrity and aptitude
                                                                                      behavior of service managers
These procedures are aimed at adoption verification procedures, applicant for approval. The opinion
cation of antecedents or "check of honor" of the State prosecutor must thus allow a
reliability” relating to approvals of services assessment based on objective elements
of adoption107, authorizations to operate and as complete as possible through the
games of chance108, authorizations relating to the consultation of bulletin number 1 of the register
private guarding and judicial surveillance activities, recording all offenses of
lance109, and to the authorisations, permits or approvals of the requesting person”111.
provisions provided for by the amended law of March 15, 1983
on arms and ammunition. Without prejudging the merits of such
                                                                                      communication, such a derogation should
              To. On the communication of the bulletin nevertheless be justified more fully by
                 No. 1 of the criminal record the authors of the bill. It is, in fact,
                                                                                      difficult to assess whether such communication
With respect to claims relating to would respect the principle of minimization of
approvals of adoption services, the project data in the absence of specification of the criteria
of law provides that bulletin No. 1, as referred to on which the Minister of
by the amended law of March 29, 2013 relating to Justice to issue or refuse such approval.
the organization of the criminal record, may be
consulted, if necessary, by the State prosecutor. b. On newsletter communication
                                                                                                     No. 2 criminal record
However, bulletin No. 1 of the criminal record provides information
the full list of registrations applicable to With regard to authorizations to operate

107
      Article 12 of the bill.
108
      Article 5 of the bill (regarding the authorization to operate games of chance).
109
      Article 14 of the bill.
110
      Article 9 of the bill.
111
      V. “Ad article 12” of the bill.



                                                                                                 171
6 APPENDICES




    games of chance112, the bill under or approvals provided for by the amended law of
    notice provides that, to obtain the March 15, 1983 authorization on arms and ammunition117, the
    to operate games of chance, the Ministry texts under notice, which are worded identically,
    public "may also take cognizance do not expressly refer to the communication
    registrations of the criminal record” in order to bulletin N ° 2 of the criminal record. In effect,
    verify that the "behaviour of the person the provisions under notice state that
    applicant, acting as representative “the Attorney General of State communicates to the
    of a legal person or in an individual capacity is Minister copies of court decisions which
    not incompatible with the operation of games appear, where applicable, on bulletin No. 2 of the
    chance”113. criminal record”.

    The device under opinion does not however specify If it arises from the project of law n ° 7425 on the weapons
    not the bulletin number of the criminal record and ammunition, in particular of article 15
    who would be consulted. Nevertheless, the Commission paragraph (4) of said bill, that the bulletin
    deducted from the provisions of article 1, N°2 would be collected, this is not provided for by
    point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July the amended law of 12 November 2002 relating
    2016114 that bulletin n°2 of the criminal record for private activities of guarding and
    would be collected for the purpose of issuing surveillance.
    authorizations relating to games of chance.
                                                                                           However, the National Commission deduces
    If this were to be the case, then this should be the provisions of Article 1(7) of the Regulation
    be reflected in the mechanism under the Grand-Ducal opinion of 23 July 2016118 that the bulletin
    to respect the principle of predictability and No. 2 of the criminal record would be collected for
    clarification to which any legal text must comply authorizations relating to the private activities of
    or regulatory115. guarding and surveillance.

    With regard to the relative authorizations Therefore, in order to comply with the principle of
    to the private activities of guarding and predictability and precision to which must
    surveillance116, and authorizations, permits comply with any legal or regulatory text119,



    112
          See article 5 of the bill relating to article 11 paragraph (2) of the amended law of 20 April 1997 on games of chance and sports betting.
    113
          See article 11 paragraph (1) of the amended law of 20 April 1997 on games of chance and sports betting, as amended by article 5 of the bill.
    114
          Article 1, point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of July 23, 2016 provides that “bulletin N°2 can be issued on request and with the agreement
          expressly in writing or electronically from the person concerned to the Minister having Justice in his or her attributions for the instruction of the
          applications relating to games of chance”.
    115
          In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015.
    116
          See article 14 of the bill.
    117
          See section 9 of the bill.
    118
          Article 1, point 7) of the Grand-Ducal regulation of July 23, 2016 provides that “bulletin N°2 can be issued on request and with the agreement
          expressly in writing or electronically from the person concerned to the Minister having Justice in his or her attributions for the instruction of the
          requests for prohibited weapons and guarding”.
    119
          In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015.



                                                                   172
details on this subject would be worthwhile. Furthermore, it should be noted that another
made by the authors of the bill in formulation is used for the procedures
with respect to background check clearances relating to
private security guarding activities and for the purpose of issuing authorizations relating to
surveillance. to private activities of guarding and
                                                                                 surveillance121, and authorizations, permits or
              vs. On the communication of an extract from the approvals provided for by the amended law of 15
                 foreign criminal record March 1983 on arms and ammunition122.

With regard to the communication of a Indeed, articles 9 and 14 of the bill
foreign criminal record extract, it should be specified that the convictions pronounced
to note that the procedures relating to abroad or by a criminal court of a
approvals of adoption services or other Member States of the European Union,
authorizations to operate games of chance from a country associated with the Schengen area or
provides that "in case of need the prosecutor of the European Economic Area shall be
of State can ask to obtain the criminal record taken into account during the verification of
judicial authority of the competent State authority. On this point, it is referred to the
member” of which the data subject has the observations made by the CNPD in
Nationality. its additional opinion of February 4, 2021
                                                                                 on draft law N°7425 on weapons and
There is reason to wonder about the use of ammunition123.
wording "if necessary" while
this term is vague and does not allow for In addition, the National Commission
understand what would be the situations where the wonders about the reasons why
communication of an extract from the criminal record different wordings are used
would be necessary or not. by the authors of the bill with regard to
                                                                                 concerns the communication of an extract of
Therefore, in order to respect the principle of foreign criminal record. The disparities between
predictability and precision to which each of the said provisions owes are source
respond to any legal or regulatory text120, illegibility and legal uncertainty for the
the CNPD considers that clarification on this point concerned.
be brought. Moreover, for the sake of
consistency of the bill as a whole, 3. On the processing of data
these should be drafted in a manner relating to facts likely to
similar to those covered by the procedures to constitute a crime or misdemeanor,
referred to in points IV.2. points A. and B. of or relating to a conviction
this notice. penal for a felony or misdemeanor


120
      ibidem
121
      See article 14 of the bill.
122
      See section 9 of the bill.
123
      V. additional opinion of the CNPD of 04/02/2021, deliberation n°2/2021, the developments formulated under point I. 1. F. c.



                                                                                            173
6 APPENDICES




    In addition to the knowledge of an extract required to treat them with confidentiality
    criminal record, it should be noted that the officers” or because “[a]s officers
    procedures for checking the background of public it must be ensured that the bailiffs
    type 2 and 3 are more intrusive than those of justice exercise their function with integrity
    type 1, based only on communication necessary. This assessment should be made in
    an extract from the criminal record. Indeed, taking into account the criminal record "
    type 2 and 3 procedures are also based or alternatively only background checks
    on the facts: judicial is "intended to inform the Minister
                                                            of Justice on the seriousness, integrity and aptitude
    - likely to constitute a crime or behavior of those responsible for the service
      offense which are the subject of a report or an adoption. ". These are not formulated
      police report (B); with enough detail.
    - relating to a criminal conviction for
      felony or misdemeanor (C). However, in the absence of such details, it is
                                                            difficult to assess whether the principle of minimization
    Without prejudging the concrete assessment of the data would be respected. It is necessary to
    that would be carried out in this matter, it should be recalled that by virtue of this principle, only
    regret that neither the bill under notice nor can be processed personal data
    the comments of the articles do not specify personal which are strictly necessary for the
    what criteria or what degree of seriousness of the achievement of the aims pursued.
    background is taken into account by the Minister
    of Justice, the Minister of Finance or the A. Introductory remarks
    Public prosecutor to assess good repute
    of the persons concerned. It should be noted that Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 9,
                                                            11, 12, 14 and 15 of the bill specify that the
    If the sponsors of the bill justify background checks will cover
    such intrusions when these facts are likely to constitute a crime or
    are intended in particular to “verify that offence.
    the behavior of the candidate is not
    incompatible with the exercise of functions and Only sections 9, 12 and 14 of the bill
    notary missions” or that “[i]t is important specify that, in addition to the facts likely to
    that judges and prosecutors may (…) constitute a crime or misdemeanor, verification
    carry out the background check of the will relate to the facts “referred to in article 563,
    staff in the context of their recruitment, point 3° of the Penal Code relating to assault
    given the sensitivity of the information and minor violence", "referred to in Article 1
    brought to the attention of the staff of the amended law of September 8, 2003 on the
    judicial administration and honesty in domestic violence”.




                                             174
It is still interesting to note that the classification without consequences. It deserves to be
Proponents of the bill specify in their Clarified by Proponents of the Bill.
commentary to article 5 relating to the
operating stations of games of chance and With regard to the processing of data
to exercise a job in connection with games relating to such facts, there is particular reason
chance, that only certain offenses attract the attention of the authors of the bill
seem particularly relevant to the fact that “a minute or a report does not
refuse such authorizations, in particular are not the equivalent of a court decision
"when it is a criminal offense in connection having retained a person in the bonds of the
with money laundering, theft, prevention cases and that the principle of presumption
fraud, etc. ". innocence must prevail. »126.

Therefore, would it not be possible, like the With regard to the facts which are the subject of
articles 9, 12 and 14 of the bill, to indicate of an ongoing criminal prosecution, the perpetrators
with more precision on what crimes or misdemeanors the bill should focus on
carry out such checks? particular to the secrecy of the instruction. As such,
                                                                        it should be noted that only Articles 5, 9
        B. On the facts likely to and 14 of the bill specify that where the
           constitute a crime or misdemeanor which facts are covered by the secrecy of the investigation
           are the subject of a report or only the data listed by these articles
           of a police report may be disclosed.

It should be noted that the procedures for It should be noted that such clarifications
type 2124 background checks are not provided by sections 4, 6, 7,
relate only to the facts likely to 11, 12 and 15 of the bill. However, although it is
constitute a crime or misdemeanor which is the subject of proceedings in which an investigation
a report or a police report, if administrative is ordered by the prosecutor
these facts are the subject of a criminal prosecution in the General State and that an opinion of the latter is
course, excluding the facts that led to an issued at the end of these, should it not be
decision of dismissal or classification without providing for specific provisions aimed at
suites. restrict the content of such notice where
                                                                        facts are covered by the secrecy of the investigation?
The National Commission wonders whether,
contrario, in the absence of precision on this In the absence of reasons justifying such
point, the procedures for verifying the differences between the aforementioned articles on this
type 3125 antecedents include the facts point, the CNPD is of the opinion that a standardization
having resulted in a decision of dismissal or provisions on this subject would be appropriate.


124
      V. the procedures referred to in Articles 4, 5 (authorization to exercise employment), 6, 7, 11 and 15 of the bill.
125
      V. the procedures referred to in articles 5, 9, 12 and 14 of the bill.
126
      V. additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition, document
      No. 7425/08, developments under “Amendment 14”.



                                                                                 175
6 APPENDICES




    In addition, and as noted by the Council of State criminal conviction for a crime or misdemeanor and
    in its additional opinion relating to the project for which the rehabilitation is not already
    of Law No. 7425 on arms and ammunition127, what an attack at the time of the introduction of the
    would be the scope of the secrecy of the instruction by application for candidacy.
    relation to the rules of administrative procedure
    non-contentious and contentious? Despite these clarifications, the bill does not indicate
                                                                                  not the reasons why the data
            C. On the facts relating to relating to a criminal conviction for a crime
               a criminal conviction or misdemeanor are necessary and relevant in order to
               for a crime or misdemeanor verify the good repute of the person concerned.
                                                                                  These clarifications are essential as the
    It should be noted that the procedures for verifying communication of an extract from the criminal record
    cations of type 2 exclude the facts relating to a already allows information on the
    criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor for convictions pronounced against a
    which pardon was attained (a) contrai- petitioner.
    lately to the type 3 procedure which, in the absence
    precision, does not seem to exclude it (b). In order to comply with the principle of foreseeability
                                                                                  and precision to which all
    Furthermore, as a general remark, there is a legal or regulatory text129, it is essential
    to question the contribution of the communication that the authors of the bill specify the
    data relating to facts concerning categories of data which would be covered by
    a criminal conviction for a crime or misdemeanor the aforementioned provisions.
    while the bill already provides for the
    communication of an extract from the criminal record, Are these only court decisions
    see for some of the articles of the bill the document(s) relating to a
    communication of the decision contained, the case criminal conviction for a crime or misdemeanor?
    applicable, to the criminal record128. Indeed, is it
    relevant to communicate decisions that do not b. On verification procedures
    would not yet be definitive or not yet type 3 history
    entered in the criminal record of the person
    concerned? Unlike the procedures referred to under
                                                                                  sub-paragraph a) mentioned above, the procedures referred to in
                 To. On verification procedures, Articles 5, 9, 12 and 14 do not specify whether the
                    a type 2 history of facts relating to a criminal conviction, for
                                                                                  which rehabilitation would have been achieved,
    The procedures referred to in the articles listed are excluded by the said procedures. Only
    under small a) exclude facts relating to a time limitation for these facts is

    127
          V. additional opinion of the Council of State of December 19, 2020 relating to draft law No. 7425 on weapons and ammunition, document
          No. 7425/08, developments under "Amendment 14".
    128
          V. articles 9 and 14 of the bill.
    129
          In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015.



                                                             176
specified by those articles. Indeed, the articles relating to private guarding activities
all state that “[t]he facts cannot have and surveillance? These provisions do not
committed more than five years before the introduction would they not only be necessary
of the applicant's request, unless these facts have for cases where the staff hired would be
is the subject of a criminal conviction, to which led to request a license to carry weapons
case the period of five years is increased to ten years, or? Besides, isn't this already planned?
when these facts are the subject of a procedure by article 11 of the law of November 12, 2002
pending criminal”. relating to private security activities
                                                                                  and monitoring? The authors of the bill
Justifications should be provided by also note that "the same conditions
the authors of the bill as to the reasons that those of the law on arms and ammunition
for which the data relating to a therefore apply for the carrying of weapons in
criminal conviction for a felony or misdemeanor are matters of custody”132.
necessary and relevant in order to verify
the good repute of the person concerned. V. On the treatment of categories
                                                                                           special data
Furthermore, it should be noted that Articles 9 personnel
and 14 of the bill provide that upon request
“the State prosecutor communicates to the Minister It emerges from articles 9 and 14 of the draft law that
copies of the court decisions which set out the case of the special categories of data within the meaning
applicable on bulletin No. 2 of the criminal record of article 9 of the GDPR would be brought to be
of the person concerned”. On this point it is dealt with by the Minister of Justice.
referred to the developments of the Commission
in its additional opinion relating Indeed, data relating to the health of
to bill N°7425130. applicants and more specifically to their "health
                                                                                  mental” would be collected
Therefore, and in order to respect the principle of preparation by the Minister of Justice within the framework of
visibility and precision to which the verification of their good repute must respond. In what
any legal or regulatory text131, it is essentially concerned with the collection of such data by the
so that the authors of the bill specify the Ministers of Justice within the framework of the article
categories of data that would be covered by 9 of the bill, it is referred to the deliberation
the aforementioned provisions. n°42/2019 of July 8, 2019 of the CNPD133.

Furthermore, the CNPD wonders whether such The CNPD still understands that data
provisions are necessary with regard to revealing political opinions, convictions
all of the authorizations referred to by religious or philosophical reasons or the
articles 5 and 8 of the law of 12 November 2002 union membership of a person requesting a

130
      V. additional opinion of the CNPD of 04/02//2021, deliberation n°2/2021, point I. F. a. ii., page 16
131
      In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law,
      Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n»47413/06], § 228-229, 4 December 2015
132
      V. comments of the authors of the bill “Ad article 14” .
133
      Opinion of the CNPD on draft law n°7425 on arms and ammunition, deliberation n°xx, v. the comments made under point IV. " On the
      processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health » page 10.



                                                                                            177
6 APPENDICES




    approval, permit or authorization, as referred to concerning sexual life or orientation
    by the aforementioned articles, would be liable to a natural person’s sexual
    to be exchanged between the Minister of Justice prohibited”, unless one of the conditions referred to in
    and the ERS. The authors of the bill specify, paragraph (2) of the said article applies.
    in this regard, that the exchange of data between the
    SRE and the Minister of Justice was introduced The National Commission is of the opinion that the
    given the “current political context for the treatment of particular categories of
    level of violent extremist tendencies", data, during the administrative surveys which
    context which “demonstrates the importance for the would be carried out by the Minister of Justice,
    authorities to be able to verify in more detail the Minister of Finance or the Public Prosecutor,
    person submitting an authorization could rely on Article 9 paragraph (2),
    to acquire, to buy, to import, to export, of letter g) of the RGPD, provided however in
    transfer, transport, hold, wear, comply with the conditions.
    to sell and transfer arms and ammunition”.
                                                            This article provides that "[t]he processing is
    Moreover, in the context of the control of necessary for reasons of public interest
    good repute, as referred to in Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, material, on the basis of Union law or
    11, 12 and 15 of the draft law, it cannot be excluded that a right of a Member State which must be proportionate
    other special categories of data, to the objective pursued, to respect the essence of the
    such as data relating to the origin right to data protection and to provide
    racial or ethnic background, genetic data, appropriate and specific measures to
    biometric data for the purpose of identifying the safeguard of fundamental rights and
    a natural person in a unique way, interests of the person concerned”.
    data concerning sex life or
    the sexual orientation of a natural person, However, it is clear that the bill does not
    can be processed. does not seem to provide for the "appropriate measures
                                                            and specific for safeguarding the rights
    However, it should be recalled that in accordance with the fundamentals and the interests of the person
    Article 9 paragraph (1) of the GDPR “[t]he processing concerned”. Consequently, the text under draft,
    processing of personal data which does not seem to offer a legal basis
    reveals racial or ethnic origin, opinions sufficient to process these categories of data
    political, religious or phi- particular convictions.
    or trade union membership, as well as
    if the processing of genetic data, In order to make lawful such processing of
    biometric data for the purpose of identifying data, it is therefore essential that such
    a natural person in a unique way, measures are defined in the draft law
    data concerning health or donations under advice.




                                             178
It should also be expressly stated- The authors of the bill should ensure as soon as
only specific categories of therefore, to the proper articulation between the provisions
data could be collected while not subject to notice and the provisions of Article 16,
does not expressly result from the reading of ar- paragraph (2), new of bill n°7425
ticles 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15 of the bill. Ain- on weapons and ammunition.
yes, it is suggested that the authors of the bill
are inspired by French legislation, in matters VI. On the methods of transmission of
of weapons, and more specifically of article R.312- data from the procedures of ve-
85 point VI of the CSI entitled “data and informa- tion of criminal records
conclusions resulting from the administrative inquiry”. On this or "good repute check"
point, reference is made to the additional opinion of the
National Commission on the amendments of It should be noted that the terms of
Bill No. 7425 on arms and ammunition134. transmission of data from the processes
                                                                               background checks are not
In addition, there is reason to wonder about the need not sufficiently specified or are not
site of such data processing in what specified at all by the bill. It suits
concerns all the authorizations referred to again to note the lack of standardization
by articles 5 and 8 of the law of November 12 between the various provisions under opinion on
2002 relating to the private activities of guardians - this point.
swimming and surveillance? These provisions do not
would they not be necessary only for Thus, it appears from the verification procedures
the cases where the staff would be required to request the background referred to in Articles 4, 7,
a gun license? 11, 12 and 15 of the bill, that the data
                                                                               from the administrative inquiry would be
However, in this respect, it is already apparent from the article transmitted via the opinion of the Attorney General
16, subsection (2), new of the state bill. These notices are forwarded to the authorities
n°7425 that “[s]if the license to carry weapons is competent for the appointment of a notary135
requested for a security officer from or from a bailiff136, the recruitment
meaning of the amended law of 12 November 2002 on judicial administration personnel137,
relating to the private activities of guarding and of the courts of the administrative order138 and
supervision, the medical certificate may be from court officials139 or the issuance
issued by one of the doctors referred to in the points of an accreditation in terms of services
1° and 2°, or by the competent occupational physician, of adoption140. It should be noted that only
after a favorable opinion from one of the doctors concerned, relevant and necessary data
at points 1° and 2°. ". should be transmitted via this notice in order to


134
      Opinion of the CNPD on draft law n°7425 on arms and ammunition, deliberation n°2/2021 of 04/02/2021, v. the comments made under
      item IV. “On the processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health” page 10.
135
      Article 4 of the bill.
136
      Article 11 of the bill.
137
      Article 6 of the bill.
138
      Article 7 of the bill.
139
      Article 15 of the bill.
140
      Article 12 of the bill.



                                                                                         179
6 APPENDICES




    to allow the competent authorities VII. On the establishment of a system of
    to assess the good repute of the candidates or follow-up with regard to the verification
    applicants. tion of good repute

    For the procedures referred to in Articles 9 The CNPD understands that a monitoring system
    and 14 of the bill, the data would be as to the condition of good repute would be put
    communicated by the Grand-Ducal Police, in place, as shown in Articles 3, 9 and
    the Public Ministry or the SRE to the Minister of 14 of the bill.
    Justice “in the form of the whole or
    extracts from the minutes or reports of With regard to Articles 9 and 14 of the
    police, judgments, orders, orders, or bills to the extent these are
    any other document or procedural document drafted identically, the National Commission
    containing the relevant information. refers on this point to his observations
    On this point, reference is made to the comments made in its additional opinion on
    formulated by the National Commission the amendments to draft law No. 7425 on the
    in its supplementary opinion on arms and ammunition142.
    amendments to draft law No. 7425 on
    weapons and ammunition. Article 3 of the bill relating to the designation,
                                                                                    in law enforcement and administrative matters,
    No details however are experts, translators and interpreters
    made with regard to the sworn procedures, provides that the Minister of
    transmission of data collected during the Justice "may revoke" the experts,
    investigations referred to in Articles 5 and 6 of sworn translators or interpreters “in
    law Project. case of breach of their obligations or
                                                                                    to professional ethics or for other
    The CNPD considers it essential to specify serious reasons. The revocation cannot
    on these points be made by intervening only on the advice of the Attorney General
    authors of the bill and recalls that only the State and after the person concerned has been admitted to
    necessary and relevant data does not present its explanations”.
    can be communicated.
                                                                                    The authors of the bill do not specify
    In any case, as mentioned, everything does not work with such a system. There's
    throughout this opinion, it would therefore be preferable instead to question the system
    that the authors of the bill opt for a follow-up that would be put in place if necessary.
    system that would be based on communication Will the State Attorney General consult the
    of a detailed opinion of the State prosecutor database known as "JU-CHA" in a way
    general. proactive and regular in order to bring up,


    141
          V. additional opinion of the CNPD on the amendments to bill N°7425, deliberation n°2/2021 of 04/02/2021, v. comments made
          under point IV. “On the processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health” page 10.
    142
          Additional opinion of the CNPD on draft law n°7425 on arms and ammunition, deliberation n°2/2021 of 04/02/2021, v. observations
          formulated under point I.2., page 19.



                                                              180
in the event of an incident, to the Minister of Justice IX. On the principle of limitation of
information likely to lead to the purposes
dismissal of the persons concerned?
                                                                          In accordance with the principle of limitation of
Furthermore, it should be noted that for such purposes, the personal data must
provisions are not intended to be collected for specific purposes,
other explicit and legitimate background check procedures, and not be processed
assignees, if this were to be the case then this subsequently in an incompatible manner
should be reflected in the bill under with these purposes.
notice.
                                                                          With regard to procedures which do not
        VIII. On the principle of accuracy of donations would not be carried out by the Public Ministry,
              born it should be noted that the transmission of
                                                                          data from files held by the
In accordance with Article 5, paragraph (1), Grand-Ducal Police, the Public Prosecutor or
letter d) of the GDPR, the data still the SRE to the Minister of Justice or
personnel must be “accurate and, if the Minister of Finance for investigative purposes
necessary, kept up to date; all administrative measures is very delicate and even risky
reasonable steps must be taken so that and must, therefore, be limited to situations
personal data which are exceptional and strictly limited.
inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which
they are processed, erased or rectified Thus, the use of data for purposes
without delay ". other than those for which they have
                                                                          been forwarded to ministers, includes
However, it should be noted that the device under additional risks and seems a priori
opinion does not contain any provision relating to the hardly justifiable. Such use
updating of the data obtained in the subsequent framework should in any case respect
administrative investigations. However, taking into account the conditions of Article 6, paragraph (4),
of the data collected, it is necessary to attract GDPR and be the subject of a law “at least
the attention of the authors of the bill to the essential elements of the matter”
fact that there is a significant risk that in accordance with Article 11, paragraph (3), of the
data relating to a person including the Constitution143 case.
has been closed without follow-up or which has in the meantime
been acquitted of an offense of which she was Therefore, like the provisions pre-
accused are still in the files seen in Article 26, paragraphs (2) and (3), of the
of the administration, without an update or law of February 22, 2018 relating to the exchange of
related rectification. personal and informational data




143
      See in this sense, M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Standards and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.471 to 472, n°619.



                                                                                   181
6 APPENDICES




    police matters144, should we not
    provide in the bill under notice only the sections covered by the bill.
    data that would be transmitted to the Minister of
    Justice or to the Minister of Finance for purposes Nevertheless, these details do not allow
    of administrative inquiry cannot be useful for the National Commission to assess whether, in
    only for the purpose for which they occur, the principle of retention period
    been transmitted and frame the transmission, the limited tion of the data would be respected.
    where appropriate, by the Minister to another administration
    transfer/ to a third party? Shouldn't it also be necessary? However, it is essential that clarifications on this
    to provide for the opinions which would be transmitted by subject are made and this all the more so
    the Public Prosecutor's Office to the authorities concerned with regard to the nature of the personal data
    sections 4, 7, 11, 12 and 15 of the bill? staff involved. Thus, the duration of
                                                                                              conservation should be defined in the project
            X. On the retention period of the law or it should at least specify the
                                                                                              criteria that would be taken into account in order to
    According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, determining what is the storage period
    personal data should only be proportionate for each category of
    not be kept longer than personal data which would be
    necessary for the achievement of the purposes for collected during administrative investigations.
    which they are collected and processed. At-
    Beyond that, the data must be deleted or Otherwise and in order to take into account any
    anonymized. appeal against administrative decisions
                                                                                              measures that would be taken under the project
    It should be noted that the authors of the bill, it is suggested to the authors of the bill
    law have, on several occasions, indicated that “[t]hese law draws inspiration from French legislation in
    data will only be kept for material of arms, which sets a retention period.
    the duration strictly necessary for the granting or vation of the data resulting from the survey
    the definitive refusal of the authorization requested”145 administrative. Article R.312-88 of the CSI provides
    or “the definitive refusal of authorization or that: “[t]he personal data and
    approval requested”146 or “during the information mentioned in d of 1° of I and
    the time strictly necessary to examine V and VI of article R.312-85 [the data
    candidacy” 1457. It should be noted that these outcomes of the administrative investigation] are


    144
          Article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) provides that: “(2) The data and information transmitted may only be used by the administration
          for the purpose for which they were transmitted. They are erased as soon as their conservation is no longer necessary with regard to the purpose
          for which they were transmitted. (3) Further transmission of data and information by the State administration to a third party
          person requires the prior written consent of the person referred to in Article 18, paragraph 1, who transmitted the data and information
          concerned. Where applicable, Article 6(3) shall apply”.
    145
          See paragraph (5) of article 1251-3 of the New Code of Civil Procedure, as amended by article 2-3° of the bill, paragraph (4) of
          Article 1 of the amended law of July 7, 1971 relating to repressive and administrative matters, institution of experts, translators and interpreters
          sworn in and supplementing the legal provisions relating to the swearing in of experts, translators and interpreters, as amended by
          article 3 of the bill, paragraph (4) of article 2 of the law of 6 May 1999 on penal mediation, as amended by article 13 of the bill.
    146
           V. paragraph (6) of article 11 of the amended law of 20 April 1977 on games of chance and sports betting, as amended by article 5 of the draft
          of law.
    147
          V. article 90 bis of the amended law of 7 November 1996 on the organization of administrative courts, as amended by article
          7 of the bill.



                                                                     182
kept for a maximum period of one For all practical purposes, it should be specified that the
year from the notification of the decisions French legislation on weapons provides,
mentioned in IV of the same article or, in the case of article R.312-90 of the CSI, a restriction of the
contentious appeal directed against these decisions- rights of the persons concerned (see Chapter
ments, until it has been definitively ruled III of the GDPR). This article provides in particular
on the dispute”. that: “[t]he rights to information, access,
                                                        rectification and limitation of personal data
    XI. On the right of data subjects referred to in Articles 13 to 16 and 18 of the [GDPR] and the
                                                        articles 104 to 106 of the law of 6 January 1978 pre-
According to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter (a) of the cited are exercised with the central service of
GDPR, the personal data of the weapons or of the territorially competent prefect,
must be treated in a lawful, fair manner according to their respective attributions. In order to
and transparent to the person to avoid interfering with investigations, research
concerned (principle of legality, fairness, or administrative or judicial procedures
transparency). This principle implies in particular whether to avoid harming the prevention or detection of
that the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Criminal Offenses, Investigations or
Finances or the Public Ministry will have to respect proceedings in the matter or the execution of sanctions.
the provisions of Article 13 of the GDPR for criminal matters or to protect public security,
data collected directly from the rights of access, rectification and limitation
data subject, otherwise those of the article may be subject to restrictions in application
14 of the GDPR, when the data relating to Article 52 and 2° and 3° of II and III of
personnel were not collected from article 107 of the aforementioned law of January 6, 1978. »
the data subject himself, i.e.
say those collected indirectly from the Therefore, it is necessary to draw the attention of the authors
Public Ministry, the Grand Ducal Police or the draft law on the fact that without derogation
of the ERS. explicit in the bill, these rights are
                                                        all fully applicable. However, such
Under these articles, the person in charge of derogations could prove to be appropriate
of the treatment will have to provide to the person when the information obtained in the
concerned information about the framework of certain verification procedures
processing concerning him, in particular for antecedents concern investigations or
ensure fair and transparent treatment. criminal investigations in progress.
It is specified that in cases where Article 14 of the
GDPR would apply, this information should XII. On the security of the processing
be provided to the data subject no later than
later than one month after the person responsible for the In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1) letter
processing has obtained the data. f) GDPR personal data




                                                               183
6 APPENDICES




    must be “treated in such a way as to guarantee one of their functions and tasks
    appropriate security of professional data are entitled to access
    personnel, including protection against the necessary data. He is interesting
    unauthorized or unlawful processing and against the to note that in France, articles R.234-1 to
    loss, destruction or original damage R.234-3 and R.236-6 of the CSI lists the
    accidental, using technical measures categories of persons authorized to access
    or appropriate organizational (integrity and data resulting from the investigation
    privacy) ". administration.

    Article 32 of the GDPR further provides that “the In this context, it is strongly recommended
    controller and processor to define an access management policy,
    implement technical measures in order to be able to identify from the outset the
    and organizational arrangements appropriate to the person or department, within each
    guarantee a level of security adapted to the administration concerned, which would have access to
    risk ". Such measures must be made on the computer interface made available by
    implemented in order to avoid access to the CTIE in particular, and to what specific data this
    unauthorized data leaks from anyone or this service would have access to.
    unwanted data or changes.
                                                       In addition, it is necessary to provide a
    The CNPD is of the opinion that the protection of the access logging system. So
    confidentiality and data security to the point, the CNPD recommends that the data
    personal character is a major logging issue are kept for a
    in the event of the processing of special categories, a period of five years from their registration,
    of data insofar as their disclosure period after which they are erased, except
    is likely to constitute serious harm when they are the subject of a procedure for
    for the people concerned. control.

    Thus, having regard to the nature of the data processed Finally, with regard to the data which
    in question, it is essential that such measures would initially be subject to the law of 1 August
    safety measures are implemented by the 2018 relating to the protection of persons
    different physical order controllers with regard to the processing of
    to ensure the confidentiality and security of personal data in terms of
    data. criminal as well as security
                                                       national, the question arises of the articulation,
    Among these security measures, the Commission, where appropriate, between the provisions provided for in
    national considers it important that only article 28 of the said law and those provided for in
    people who need it in the exercise of article 32 of the GDPR.




                                         184
XIII. On the competent supervisory authority The authors of the bill relating to the
                                                                                protection of natural persons with regard to
There is reason to wonder about the fact of knowing the processing of personal data
what is the competent personal control authority in criminal matters as well as in
to control and monitor compliance with national security matters believe that
legal provisions provided for by the text in “to determine the jurisdiction of one of the
project, in the absence of clarification on this subject in two supervisory authorities [CNPD or
the bill under notice. of judicial review], the determinative question
                                                                                will no longer be the purpose of the data concerned,
Indeed, there is some doubt as to whether the competent authority
to know if the data, collected initially participates in the making or the execution of a
for the purposes of prevention, judicial decision, which is not the case
research, observation and for the Police”149.
prosecution of the offences, then forwarded by
the Grand-Ducal Police, the Public Ministry and They further specify that "when for a
the SRE to the Minister of Justice or the Minister processing personal data
of Finance in order to enable it to verify determined – falling within the scope
the good repute of a candidate, applicant for this bill – the question of the
permit, authorization or approval referred to by competence of one of the two authorities of
the draft law falls within the competence of control arises, it would be necessary in principle to retain the
the judicial control authority148 or that of competence of the National Commission for
the National Commission. data protection, unless the processing
                                                                                personal data concerned
It should be recalled that paragraph (2) of is made by a court in the exercise
article 40 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the jurisdictional functions or by the
protection of natural persons vis-à-vis the public prosecutor, either in the exercise of his
the processing of personal data- judicial functions, either upstream or in
nel in criminal matters as well as in matters of se- endorsement of his participation in decision-making
National Curity provides that “jurisdictional operations”150.
processing of personal data
carried out by the courts of the judicial order- In this case, the Minister of Justice and the
ciary, including the public prosecutor, and of the order of the Minister of Finance do not constitute a
administration in the exercise of their functions of the authorities referred to in article 40 of the law of
jurisdictional, whether for the purposes vi- the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of
referred to in article 1 of this law or for those natural persons with regard to the processing
covered by the [GDPR], are subject to the control of personal data in
of the judicial control authority”. criminal and security matters


148
      Judicial supervisory authority as referred to in article 40 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons at
      with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
149
      See parliamentary document no. 7168, “Ad article 41”, page 47.
150
      See parliamentary document no. 7168, “Ad article 41”, page 47.



                                                                                          185
6 APPENDICES




    national, and are not likely to XIV. On the other laws covered by the bill
    render a judicial decision at the end of the law but foreign to the "control
    of the administrative investigation but a decision of good repute”
    purely administrative.
                                                                                    The bill also intends to modify the
    Therefore, the data processing carried out in articles 1007-6 and 1036 of the New Code of
    by these ministers in the context of civil procedure investigations as well as the law of 30 December
    administrative, covered by the bill, 1981 relating to compensation in the event of detention
    could fall within the scope of inoperative preventive jurisdiction and the amended law of
    of the National Commission. March 2, 1984 relating to the compensation of
                                                                                    some bodily injury victims
    It is interesting to note that this solution resulting from an offense and the repression of
    was withheld with respect to fraudulent insolvency authority. It is necessary to raise
    competent to monitor and control the that these provisions do not relate to the
    provisions of the law of 22 February 2018 relating to integrity checks.
    to the exchange of personal data
    and information on police matters. With regard to the provisions under notice
                                                                                    amending Articles 1007-6 and 1036
    Shouldn't the same solution be retained in the New Code of Civil Procedure, there is
    with regard to the processing carried out by to note that these provisions fall under the
    the Public Prosecutor's Office when the latter carries out the missions carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office in
    administrative investigations, as provided for in civil matters.
    by the bill under notice?
                                                                                    The said articles further provide that the
    In order to remove any ambiguity about this State prosecutor may, in the context of
    point, the authors of the bill should complete these procedures “take cognizance of the
    ter the device under notice accordingly. registrations in bulletin N°1 of the criminal record »
                                                                                    as well as, where applicable, the "criminal record
    For all practical purposes, it should be noted that the competent authority of the State whose
    jurisdiction of the CNPD with regard to the parties to the hearing have nationality”. There occurs
    data processing carried out by the said to congratulate the authors of the bill for
    ministers within the framework of the bill under notice such clarifications.
    in no way prejudges the jurisdiction of the authority
    of judicial review with regard to the The CNPD further understands that the authors of the
    communication of data by the Ministry draft law intend to provide access by
    public to these ministers, as provided for by the project the Public Ministry to the so-called database
    of law. “JU-CHA” within the framework of the procedures




    151
          Articles 25, paragraph (1), and 28 of the law of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and information relating to
          policewoman.



                                                              186
referred to in Articles 1007-6 and 1036 of the New Regulations. Indeed, the GDPR is, as
Code of Civil Procedure. European regulations, mandatory in all
                                                                                     its elements and directly applicable to the
Without prejudging the merits of such access, Luxembourg. The National Commission
CNPD wonders, however, if it would not be possible to draw the attention of the authors of the pro-
more relevant to provide for such provisions.
in a legal text relating to the database partially or fully reproduce the
"JU-CHA" and its use by the Ministry text of a European regulation in the legal order
public as part of the exercise of its internal dique. Indeed, the Council of State recalls
assignments? regularly in its opinions the case law
                                                                                     of the Court of Justice of the European Union
With regard to article 2 of the law of 30 according to which the Member States must not
December 1981 on compensation in the event not hinder the direct applicability of the
of ineffective preventive detention, such as regulations nor conceal their European nature.
amended by the bill, péenne is to be welcomed153.
the details provided with regard to the
data that would be processed within the framework of Thus decided in Belvaux on February 10
the examination of the claim for compensation such as 2021.
than provided for by the aforementioned law.
                                                                                     The National Commission for the Protection of
Finally, with regard to article 9 of the data law
of March 2, 1984 relating to the compensation
tation of some damage victims Tine A. Larsen
bodily injury resulting from an offense and to the President
repression of fraudulent insolvency, such as
amended by the bill, there is Thierry Lallemang
commend the sponsors of the bill for providing Commissioner
a legal basis for the exchange
of data between the Minister of Justice, the Christophe Buschmann
Public Prosecution and the Administration of the Registrar
very.
                                                                                     Marc Lemmer
        XV. Final remarks Commissioner

It should be noted that the provisions of
draft law under opinion which repeats article 5
of the GDPR152 are likely to be super-


152
      V. articles 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 13 and 15 of the bill.
153
      See par. ex. the opinion of the Council of State of July 17, 2020 on draft law no. 7537 relating to certain methods of application and the sanction of the regulation
      (EU) No 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 promoting fairness and transparency for business users of
      online intermediation services.



                                                                                                187
6 APPENDICES



Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7768 amending
of the amended law of July 17, 2020 on the control measures currently in place while providing for a
against the Covid-19 pandemic. certain number of details concerning, among
(Deliberation No. 5/AV4/2021 of 02/16/2021) others, the “regime applicable to
                                                                           processing of personal data,
                                                                           particularly with regard to the program of
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, screening on a large scale and within the framework of
                   letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27 vaccination. »
                   2016 relating to the protection of persons
                   with regard to the processing of data The CNPD would like to point out that, given the urgency of the
                   of a personal nature and to the free movement of bills under opinion, it is not possible for him
                   this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ to analyze in depth the modifications
                   EC (general regulation on the protection of proposed and that its opinion has been drawn up and
                   data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), which is adopted solely on the basis of the information
                   refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on which it has to date. The opinion is given under
                   organization of the National Commission to reserve any future considerations.
                   data protection and the general regime
                   on data protection, the Commission I. Ad article 4 of bill n°7768
                   national authority for data protection (here
                   after designated “the National Commission” Article 4 of bill no. 7768 aims to modify
                   or “the CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the various provisions of article 5 of the law
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, amended on 17 July 2020 introducing
                   the government and other institutions and implementation of a series of measures to combat
                   organizations regarding the Covid 19 pandemic legislative measures (hereinafter: “amended law of
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of July 17, 2020”). The CNPD formulates three
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons to remarks in this regard:
                   with regard to the treatment”.
                                                                           1. In Article 5 paragraph (1) of the amended law
                   On February 12, 2021, Madam Minister of July 17, 2020 is added a new
                   of Health seized the National Commission category of people who can access
                   a request for an opinion on bill no. 7768 on health-related data in the context of
                   amending the amended law of 17 on the activity of contact tracing and which
                   July 2020 on the measures to combat the must be named by the
                   Covid-19 pandemic (hereinafter the “health director bill. Indeed, paragraph
                   No. 7768"). in question now provides that the
                                                                              infected persons must inform
                   It appears from the explanatory memorandum that the present on their state of health and on the identity of the
                   bill aims to maintain the restrictions people with whom they have had




                                                            188
contacts likely to generate a high 2. During the Government Council of 25
      risk of infection “the director of health January 2021, the ministers gathered had
      or his representative, as well as the civil servants, indicated their agreement with the introduction of a
      employees or employees made available obligation to present a SARS-CoV-2 test
      of the Ministry of Health in application of negative before boarding for all
      Article L. 132-1 of the Labor Code or any person traveling to the Grand Duchy
      other person, designated for this purpose by the Luxembourg by air.154 Thus,
      Director of Health”. since January 29, 2021, “any person,
                                                                                   regardless of nationality, aged
      The commentary on the articles specifies that those aged 6 or over, wishing to travel by
      “this addition is intended solely to be able to transport air to Grand-
      adapt to the evolution of the epi- Duchy of Luxembourg, must present to
      demiological, particularly with regard to boarding the negative result (on
      different existing variants, and allow paper or electronic document) of a
      adjust the capacities of the team in charge of viral detection testing by RNA PCR
      monitoring and tracing through volon- viral of SARS-CoV-2 or a search for
      authorities called in as reinforcements, if necessary. This viral antigen (rapid test) performed less than
      new category specifically targets 72 hours before the flight”.155
      retired care staff. »
                                                                                    The CNPD wonders in this context
      The CNPD considers, however, that the wording acsi, in addition to the treatment provided for in the current
      7768, and more particularly article 5 paragraph 2bis of the amended law
      the end of the sentence added namely of July 17, 2020, that is to say the collection of
      "any other person", is more than vague personal data through
      and it believes that such wording does not save passenger locator forms,
      would in no way legitimize any additional processing of data
      cerning of internal contacts implemented by of a personal nature by the companies
      private or public employers, parallel airlines would take place, such as for example
      the tracing implemented by the Conservation Department of a copy of the negative test
      health. Indeed, in view of the risk that cer- or the recording of data relating thereto.
      tain private or public employers could In this case, as the data
      carry out, in good faith, personal contact tracing included in a test
      internal, it notes that the lawfulness of such a negative is to be considered as data
      contact tracing is far from being legally concerning health156, companies
      clear in current legislation. airlines carry out a treatment


154
      See press release on the summary of the work of the Government Council of January 25, 2021: https://gouvernement.lu/fr/actualites/
      all_news/communiques/2021/01-janvier/25-conseil-gouvernement.html.
155
      See press release from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of January 26, 2021: https://covid19.public.lu/fr/
      actualite-covid-19/communiques/2021/01/26-mesures-sanitaires-deplacements.html.
156
      Article 4 point 15 of the GDPR defines data concerning health as "personal data relating to the physical or
      mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveal information about the state of health of this
      person. Recital (35) of the GDPR specifies that personal data relating to health should include: “[...]
      information obtained during the testing or examination of a part of the body or a bodily substance […]. »



                                                                                          189
6 APPENDICES




    relating to particular categories of Thus, in the event that on the basis of the decision taken
    personal data within the meaning of in the Council of Government processing
    GDPR Article 9. The processing of such personal data is put
    data being in principle prohibited by virtue of the implementation by the airlines in the
    of Article 9 paragraph (1) of the GDPR, the times when passengers present their test
    airlines must be SARS-CoV-2 negative before boarding,
    on one of the ten exemption conditions the CNPD recommends to the authors of the project
    provided for in paragraph (2) of Article 9 of the law to provide for this processing either in the
    GDPR. body of the text of the bill under notice, or
                                                          in another legal text in order to satisfy
    The CNPD considers that the only condition for forecasting and predictability requirements
    applicable in this case would be Article 9 to which a legal text must respond, for example
    paragraph 2) letter i) of the GDPR (processing reference to European case law, and
    necessary for reasons of public interest in the interests of transparency and security
    in the field of public health), read legal.
    together with article 6 paragraph (1)
    letter c) of the GDPR (processing necessary for 3. Pursuant to Article 5 paragraph (3) first
    compliance with a legal obligation to which point of the amended law of July 17, 2020, the
    controller is subject). health professionals are already obliged, in
    In these cases, the basis and the view to follow and acquire the knowledge
    purposes of the data processing must fundamental on the evolution of the propa-
    specifically be defined either by the right of tion of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, to transmit
    the European Union, either by the right of the State to the Director of Health or his delegate
    member to whom the data controller surname, first names, sex, identification number
    is submitted. or date of birth as well as the municipality
                                                           of residence or the address of the persons
    In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR of which the result of a diagnostic test of
    specifies that it should “[...] belong to the right the infection with the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been negative.
    of the Union or the law of a Member State of On the other hand, said point no longer provides that these
    determine the purpose of the processing. [...]". The data is anonymized by the director
    recital 41 of the GDPR further specifies that health or its delegate at the end of a
    this legislative measure should be clear duration of seventy-two hours after their
    and precise and its application should be reception. The commentary to the article specifies
    predictable for litigants, in accordance with that "the reference to the retention period
    to the case law of the Court of Justice of tion which appears in the same point is substituted
    the European Union and the European Court by the proposed amendment to Article 10,
    human rights. paragraph 5.”




                                         190
Thus, it results from a combined reading of July 2020. Once again, the CNPD would like to issue
      articles 5 paragraph (3) first point and 10 three observations in this regard:
      paragraph (5) of the amended law of 17 July
      2020, as amended by Bill 1. The new Article 10 paragraph (1bis) of the
      under review, that the data subject to the amended law of July 17, 2020 provides that the
      staff of people whose result of a “Health Department is responsible for the
      diagnostic test for infection with the SARS virus- treatments referred to in paragraph 1, excluding
      CoV-2 has been negative are pseudonymized for the purpose of identifying the categories of
      later at the end of a period of six months after persons to be invited as part of the pro-
      their collection for a period of three years to large-scale screening grams and
      at the end of which they are anonymized, vaccination which is the responsibility of
      that is to say that they are kept in total by the General Inspectorate of Social Security. »
      for three and a half years. The commentary to the articles specifies that this
                                                                                  “new paragraph 1bis is inserted with a view to
      The National Commission would like to emphasize to reflect the responsibility of the Inspectorate
      that it does not have the general expertise of social security, the first party
      scientific and epidemiological necessary for the data processing carried out
      in order to assess whether it is justified and proportionate in the context of screening programs
      that the data of people whose large-scale and vaccination, in particular
      result of a diagnostic test for the infection lies with regard to the management of
      to the SARS-CoV-2 virus was negative. The latter has the expertise and
      henceforth kept for three years demographic and socio-ecological data
      and a half and no longer for only nomics necessary for sampling
      72 hours. In the absence of further explanation of the people to be invited as part of the
      precise by the authors of the bill, it large-scale screening program
      cannot therefore assess whether any and the vaccination program, in
      new knowledge acquired depending on the evolution of the epidemic in
      recently on the SARS-Cov-2 Luxembourg virus. »
      make it possible to justify why these data
      should be kept for a period. It appears that the authors of the draft
      much longer than initially Law No. 7768 consider that the Inspection
      provided by the legislator. General Social Security (hereinafter:
                                                                                  “IGSS”) assumes the function of responsible
II. Ad article 5 of bill n°7768 of processing within the meaning of article 4 point 7
                                                                                  of the GDPR157 with regard to data
Article 5 of the bill aims to amend various personal matters dealt with in the
provisions of article 10 of the amended law of the 17 framework for the management of invitations related to


157
      Article 4 point 7 of the GDPR defines the controller as "the natural or legal person, public authority, service or
      other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing; when the purposes and
      means of this processing are determined by Union law or the law of a Member State, the controller may be designated or
      the specific criteria applicable to its designation may be provided for by Union law or by the law of a Member State. »



                                                                                         191
6 APPENDICES




          large-scale screening program makes available to public bodies
          and the vaccination program. research, in accordance with its missions
                                                                                        legal. »
          The CNPD would like to point out that in order to be
          qualified as data controller, the IGSS The National Commission wonders in
          should be able to decide on the means of what extent the IGSS, which should a priori in
          aforementioned processing, i.e. taking the this specific context be considered as
          decision on the basis of which criteria which subcontractor of the Health Department,
          people will be invited to be tested / would have permanent and continuous access to the
          vaccinate, without an exchange of information system data from the said Directorate
          of a personal nature of persons who in order to regularly pseudonymize en bloc
          have received such an invitation with the Management all the data contained therein? Where is it
          of Health should take place. On the other hand, that the IGSS would only receive on request,
          if the Health Directorate decides on the basis of specific research
          what criteria people will be and related search criteria,
          invited to be tested/vaccinated and that the personal data contained
          the IGSS only selects the people in the information system in order to
          meeting the said criteria and sends to pseudonymize? In the latter case, it is
          on behalf of the Management the essential invitations that are implemented
          corresponding, the IGSS would rather have technical and organizational measures
          consider as subcontractor of the appropriate in accordance with Article
          Directorate of Health.158 32 of the GDPR to secure the flow of
                                                                                        communication between the Department of Health
    2. With regard specifically to the role of and the IGSS.
       the IGSS, article 10 paragraph (3bis) new
       of the amended law of July 17, 2020 provides Note, moreover, that the CNPD has already
       that “the General Security Inspectorate has repeatedly insisted on the need
       is the recipient of the processed data of a legislative framework for the activity of
       that it pseudonymises for the stated purposes of a trusted third party that would allow
       in paragraph 6”, i.e. for purposes of supporting the development of services
       scientific or historical research or to innovative pseudonymization
       statistical purposes. The commentary of and anonymization in Luxembourg.159
       articles specifies that this new paragraph
       3bis “is inserted to transfer data 3. The CNPD can only approve in
       to the General Inspectorate of Social Security a goal of strengthening the transparency of
       so that it pseudonymizes them through the processing carried out,160 the new point
       of its secure technical system and the 2bis of paragraph 2 of article 10 of the law

    158
          Article 4 point 8 of the GDPR defines the processor as “the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body
          who processes personal data on behalf of the controller. »
    159
          See for example its additional opinion on draft law no. 7061 amending certain provisions of the Social Security Code,
          deliberation no. 930/2017 of November 17, 2017.
    160
          See commentary on article 5 of bill no. 7768.



                                                              192
amended of July 17, 2020 lists in detail a patient and the vaccine administered to him. AT
      the data processed by the IGSS in order to establish, for example, the vaccination campaign
      the list of people to be invited to the framework deployed in the context of the pandemic
      of the large-scale H1N1 screening program in 2009 demonstrated that records
      and the vaccination program. of pharmacovigilance required a
                                                         long retention of associated data.
      However, with regard to the principle of minimi- Thus, following the identification of narcolepsy
      ation of data (article 5 paragraph (1) as a proven adverse effect of the vaccine
      letter c) of the GDPR), she wonders if the treatment against H1N1, vaccinated people have
      collection of data on the composition of the pu submitting claims
      household, as well as on the employer (in addition for which it was necessary to associate
      data on the professional sector of activity - a patient / a vaccine / an effect in order to be able to
      sional), is really necessary in order to establish the causal link. However, two vaccines
      identification of the categories of people to had been administered, it was therefore necessary to be in
      invite in the context of said measurement programs to identify which was administered to which
      large-scale screening and vaccination. patient. »

In general, the CNPD congratulates the Furthermore, the CNPD notes with satisfaction that
authors of bill n°7768 under examination the authors of bill n°7768 have taken into
to have more precisely determined the account of the comment made in its opinion
purposes of personal data relating to bill n°7738 amending the law
collected as part of the amended program of July 17, 2020 introducing
vaccination concerning the vaccinator and a series of measures to combat the
person to be vaccinated, as well as the durations of the Covid19 pandemic on the origin of the data
retention of said data, which were of a personal nature of the vaccinators and
adapted according to the number of data from vaccinated persons161 in the sense that
strictly necessary with regard to the purposes of paragraph 2 point 5 of article 10 of the law
envisaged and the amended retention period of July 17, 2020 now provides
twenty years. The commentary of the articles gives that it is the vaccinators or the people
in addition more explanations in this regard placed under their responsibility which record
by explaining for example that the "period without delay the data referred to in point 3° a)
of twenty years is justified with regard to and b) of the paragraph in question concerning
pharmacovigilance, the purpose for which the vaccinator and the person to be
records of notified cases are usually vaccinated.
kept for a period of twenty years at the
less. The objective is to be able to return to the file Eventually, as the information system
in order to establish the link between the side effects set up by the Health Directorate contains




161
      Deliberation n° 30/2020 of December 22, 2020.



                                                                193
6 APPENDICES




    personal data concerning
    vaccinated persons, by deduction, a
    file on unvaccinated people could
    be created. However, the CNPD understands that such
    data processing, potential source of
    discrimination and stigma, will not be
    implemented, neither by the Department of Health nor
    by the IGSS.

    Thus decided in Belvaux on February 16
    2021.

    The National Commission for the Protection of
    data

    Tine A. Larsen
    President
    
    Thierry Lallemang
    Commissioner

    Christopher Buschman
    Commissioner

    Marc Lemmer
    Commissioner




                                          194
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
                                                     data relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, the determination and organization of training for
letter c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27 technical and administrative frameworks for the various
2016 relating to the protection of persons
                                                     forms of sports activities.
with regard to data processing
                                                     (Deliberation n°6/AV5/2021 of 02/24/2021)
of a personal nature and the free movement of
such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/
EC (general regulation on the protection of
data) (hereinafter referred to as the “GDPR”), to which
refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 fitness, leisure sport, competitive sport
carrying organization of the Commission and high-level sport. So that the whole
national authority for the protection of data and the population can carry out these activities
general regime on the protection of data, physical or sporting in a way that is
the National Commission for the Protection of Persons adapted to its needs, it must be supervised
data (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission by persons with training
national” or the “CNPD”) “advises, adequate and, therefore, skills
in accordance with the law of the Member State, the necessary for this purpose.
national parliament, government and other
institutions and bodies on the measures It is also clear from the explanatory memorandum that the
legislative and administrative provisions relating to the current regulatory framework date back years
protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals 1990 so that it has become necessary to
with regard to the treatment”. adapt it to contemporary reality and to abolish
                                                     manage the Grand-Ducal regulation of 16 January 1990
By letter dated December 2, 2020, restructuring the training courses
The Minister of Sports has invited the coaches in the interest of the federations
National Commission to decide on the and sports companies as well as the regulations
draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to the Grand-Ducal of 16 January 1990 concerning
determination and organization of training structuring of the training of facilitators of
technical and administrative executives for sport-leisure.
the different forms of sports activities (see
In addition, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
ducal"). constitutes the continuation of the program “subsidy
                                                     quality+” introduced by the Grand-Ducal regulation
According to the explanatory memorandum, sport as of 23 December 2016 concerning subsidies
Luxembourg includes physical activity in granted to sports clubs affiliated with a
all its forms, such as school sport, approved sports federation and granted on the basis
sport-health, sport for people from the qualification of youth coaches
disabilities, sport for all, sport- under 16 years old.




                                                            195
6 APPENDICES




    In this opinion, the Commission 2. Ad article 56 of the draft grand-
    national will address issues related to the ducal
    protection of personal data
    raised by Title V, entitled “Register Article 56, paragraph 1, of the draft
    Electronic”, of the draft grand-ducal regulation states that the registry
    ducal. of patents is subdivided into three parts,
                                                              while specifying the categories of data
     1. Ad article 55 of the draft regulations of a personal nature which will appear in the
        ducal different parts.

    Article 55 of the draft regulation The CNPD welcomes the fact that the draft regulation
    ducal provides for the creation, under the authority of the grand-ducal defines the categories of data
    Minister having in his attributions the personal matters which will be informed
    Sports, of an electronic register, titled in the patent register. However, it holds
    “patent register”, the purpose of which is to recall the importance of the principle of
    “the organization, management and administrative monitoring minimization of data devoted to the article
    initial and continuous training, aimed at 5, paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR according to
    obtaining the various patents, patents for which the personal data
    of State, approvals and ENEPS licenses must be adequate, relevant and limited there
    relating thereto, as well as the exemptions granted”. to what is necessary with regard to the purposes
    Thus, the National Commission welcomes for which they are treated. In view of
    that the authors of the draft regulation explanations provided in the comments of the
    Grand Ducal have taken care to determine the articles, the personal data
    controller as well as the purposes indicated in the patent register
    of this register. seem to be limited to what is necessary
                                                              with regard to the purposes set out in Article 55 of the
    The commentary to the articles specifies that “[t]he draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    setting up such a database
    electronic mail is part of the efforts of Article 56(2) of the draft regulation
    digitization undertaken by the Grand-Ducal administrations continues that “[t]he data
    luxembourgoises" and aims to facilitate and referred to in points 1° to 3° of paragraph 1
    to optimize the administrative tasks of can be communicated to the person in charge of
    the ENEPS. In this regard, the National Commission for processing the database in relation
    wishes to recall that the GDPR does not apply with the execution of the Grand-Ducal regulation
    only to computerized files but modified on December 23, 2016 concerning the
    also to paper files which, in the case of subsidies granted to affiliated sports clubs
    where appropriate, already exist162. with an approved sports federation.




    162
          See Article 2(1) GDPR.



                                                      196
According to the article commentary, this 3. Ad article 57 of the draft grand-
communication takes place from the perspective of ducal
the allocation of the “quality +” subsidy governed by the
amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 December Article 57 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
2016. The authors state that “[t]his ducal provides that the minister having in his
communication may indeed be essential, attributions Sports is responsible for the
because the obtaining and the amount of the treatment subsidy within the meaning of the GDPR and attributed to the
"Quality +" depends on the quality of director of ENEPS the quality of subcontractor
the supervision offered to young people by the clubs within the meaning of the GDPR.
affiliated sports.
                                                      This article continues that “[l]access to the files
The use of registry data is secure and the information relating to the
patents for the purpose of awarding the subsidy person who carried out the consultation,
"quality +" seems to be a purpose information consulted, on the date, time and
compatible with those described in the article the file reference, as well as the specific reason
55 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, of the consultation can be traced. »
especially since the Minister having in his Given that this provision is found
attributions Sports is also the second paragraph of article 57 relating
data controller from the bank to the processor, it would be possible to deduce
data provided for by the Grand-Ducal regulation that it only applies to access made
modified on December 23, 2016. by the subcontractor. However, the CNPD considers that
                                                      this provision should apply to all
However, the succinct explanations provided the accesses, that is to say also to the accesses
by the authors of the draft regulation large- carried out by the controller himself
ducal do not allow the Commission itself, and therefore proposes to insert it in a
to assess whether there is a real need in a separate paragraph.
to communicate the data contained in
the patent register. In any case, it Moreover, the National Commission notes
seems unlikely that it is necessary for the draft Grand-Ducal regulation not to define
communicate all data contained in not the data retention period to
the patent register, such as the personal character number appearing in the register
phone or email address. However, the principle of patents. The controller
minimization of data requires that only one will nevertheless have to ensure compliance with
the data actually required under Article 5, paragraph 1, letter e) of the GDPR
the awarding of the "quality +" subsidy is that the personal data
transmitted. kept in a form that allows
                                                      the identification of the persons concerned




                                                             197
6 APPENDICES




    for a period not exceeding that thus decided in Belvaux on January XX
    necessary with regard to the objectives for 2021.
    which they are processed. The Commission
    National Commission considers it necessary that the project of the National Commission for the Protection of
    Grand-Ducal regulation specifies the duration(s) given
    retention of data or less
    the applicable criteria for determining Tine A. Larsen
    retention periods. President
                                                       
    Finally, the CNPD would like to point out that the Thierry Lallemang
    rights of data subjects provided by Commissioner
    GDPR must be complied with. Thus, under
    of Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, the head of the Christophe Buschmann
    processing is obliged to provide the persons Commissioner
    concerned a certain amount of information
    when personal data Marc Lemmer
    are collected directly from them or Commissioner
    indirectly through a third party, for example to
    through a club or federation.




                                         198
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
                                                                           data relating to bill no. 7632 transposing
                                                                           of Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament
                                                                           and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing the code
                                                                           European electronic communications and covering
In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, modification of the amended law of 30 May 2005 relating to: 1)
letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April organization of the Luxembourg Regulatory Institute; 2)
2016 relating to the protection of individuals modification of the amended law of 22 June 1963 establishing the regime
physical with regard to the processing of data of the processing of civil servants.
of a personal nature and the free movement of (Deliberation n°7/AV6/2021 of 03/03/2021)
such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/
EC (general regulation on the protection of
data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which
refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for in force. Among the directives to replace
data protection and the general regime does not appear in Directive 2002/58/EC of the
on data protection, the Commission European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July
National Data Protection Act (ci- 2002 concerning the processing of personal data)
after designated "the National Commission" personal character and protection of life
or “the CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the private sector in the communications sector
law of the Member State, the national parliament, electronic (directive known as privacy and
government and other institutions and electronic communications or “directive
bodies regarding ePrivacy legislative measures”) transposed in Luxembourg by
and administrative procedures relating to the protection of the amended law of 30 May 2005 concerning
rights and freedoms of natural persons to the protection of privacy in the sector
with regard to the treatment”. electronic communications. If a
                                                                           proposal for a European regulation before
By letter dated July 6, 2020, the Minister of Com- succeed to said directive is in the process of
Communications and Media invited the Committee to draft the amended law of 30 May 2005
National Union to decide on the project concerning the protection of privacy in
of Law No. 7632 transposing the Electronic Communications Sector Directive
tive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the will remain in force for the time being.
Board meeting of December 11, 2018 establishing the code
of European electronic communications and In this context, the CNPD would like to inform
amending the amended law of 30 May of its observations in relation to certain
2005 on: 1) organization of the Institut Luxem- articles of the bill presenting
bourgeois of Regulation; 2) modification of the law aspects relating to the protection of
of June 22, 1963 setting the personal data processing regime, as well as
statements of state officials. concerning the interactions between the bill
                                                                           subject, the aforementioned law of 30 May 2005 and, on
Said Directive (EU) 2018/1972 is deemed to be applicable, the so-called “ePrivacy” Regulation in
replace four currently draft directives163.



163
      Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the respect for private life and the protection of personal data
      personal nature in electronic communications and repealing Directive 2002/58/EC (regulation "privacy and communications
      electronics”).



                                                                                     199
6 APPENDICES




    Unlike its predecessor texts, the di- EC (which defines the communications services
    rective (EU) 2018/1972 and the bill under electronic notices) will henceforth be understood as
    include so-called “over” service providers made in Article 2(4) of Directive (EU)
    the top" or "OTT" in their scope of application- 2018/1972 (repeated by article 2 paragraph (4)
    tion. In fact, not only are the bill's services covered).
    "traditional" vices based on numbering
    but also communication services Or, article 2 of the ePrivacy Directive (2002/58/
    interpersonal relationships not based on numbering. CE) refers precisely – without mentioning it
                                                                               explicitly – in Article 2(c) of the
    Ad Article 2 of Directive 2002/21/EC by the following terms:
                                                                               "Unless otherwise provided, the definitions
    As mentioned in the introduction of the contained in Directive 95/46/EC and in the
    Directive 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament
    nications is extended by ma- and of the Council of March 7, 2002 relating to a c
    to integrate “over the top players” common regulatory framework for networks and
    providing inter-electronic communications services
    personal data not based on numbering. (framework directive)(8) apply for the purposes
                                                                               of this directive. »
    However, unlike what is expected
    by the bill under opinion164, the new defi- Currently, the amended law of 30 May 2005
    of the electronic communications service concerning the protection of privacy in
    standards should apply not only to the electronic communications sector
    future law on communication networks and services which transposes the ePrivacy directive is based on
    electronic communications, but also to its article 2 letter (j) on the old definition of
    amended law of 30 May 2005 concerning the pro- article 2, point c) of directive 2002/21/EC. THE
    protection of privacy in the communications sector, the draft law under opinion should therefore include
    electronic communications. an amending provision of the amended law
                                                                               of 30 May 2005 on this subject.
    Indeed, the third paragraph of Article 125 of the
    directive (EU) 2018/1972 to be transposed provides Similarly, the conformity of the other definitions
    the following: “The references made to the directives of article 2 of the amended law of 30 May 2005
    repealed shall be understood as made in the in Article 2 of Directive 2018/1972 should be
    this directive and are to be read according to the table checked and modifications should the case
    correspondence set out in Annex XIII. » if necessary.

    According to the table in appendix XIII, any reference Furthermore, the CNPD notes, like the
    in article 2, point c) of directive 2002/21/Council of State, that point 37 of article 2 of the



    164
          Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the respect for private life and the protection of personal data
          personal nature in electronic communications and repealing Directive 2002/58/EC (regulation "privacy and communications
          electronics”).



                                                          200
draft law refers to the notion of “authorities According to the case law of the Court
competent". In the rest of the text, different European human rights, any
articles of the bill refer to these "authorities interference in the right to respect for life
jurisdictions” without however providing privacy requires a law that must be “accessible
details in this regard. to the persons concerned and foreseeable
                                                                                as to its repercussions. A ruler
However, the National Commission is likely to is foreseeable "if it is formulated with a
be part of the competent authorities, to which sufficient precision to allow any
case certain provisions of the bill him person – possibly benefiting
would be applicable, such as Articles 3, 9 and appropriate assistance – to adapt its
13. By virtue of the principle of legal certainty, it conduct”166. "The degree of precision
considers it necessary that the authors of the bill required the “law” in this regard will depend on the subject
clarify which competent authorities are in question. »167.
targeted and specify the skills and tasks
respective. The CNPD will return to this point To improve the predictability and precision
in its developments relating to Article 8 of the above provision, the CNPD suggests
law Project. to make an explicit reference to the texts of
                                                                                law providing for surveillance measures in
Ad article 5 question.

Article 5 paragraph (2) provides that “It should be avoided that a provision
operators and companies offering legal services that do not explicitly provide
electronic communications services surveillance of communications may be
make available automatically and free of charge the provision used for this purpose (for example the provisions
of the competent authorities in the matter of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to
technical data and search equipment, various legal provisions
allowing them to carry out granting investigative powers to
their legal missions of surveillance of the administrative authorities or article 3 of the law
communications”. The CNPD assumes that as amended on July 5, 2016 reorganizing
by “legal surveillance missions of the State Intelligence Service which defines
communications”, it is necessary to understand the missions of the Intelligence Service).
measures that may be ordered on the basis Indeed, the specific provisions, in addition
of articles 67-1 and 88-1 to 88-4 of the code of to meet the requirement of foreseeability of the
criminal procedure as well as Article 7, case law of the European Court of Rights
paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Human Rights Act of 5 July 2016, must contain conditions
amended reorganizing the Service by limiting surveillance measures to a
state intelligence. minimum.

165
      CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 50; see also CouEDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55
      and CouEDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n° 25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.
166
      CouEDH, Amann c. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 56; see also CouEDH, Malone v. 8691/79, 26 April 1985,
      para. 66; CouEDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.
167
      CoEDH, The Sunday Times v. 6538/74, 26 April 1979, para. 49; see also CouEHD, Silver and others c. United Kingdom, no. 5947/72,
      6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.



                                                                                          201
6 APPENDICES




    For example, in criminal proceedings, an article 67-1169, "postal operator and
    judicial access to telecommunications connection data” in article 88-4) and in
    (article 67-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure) or article 5 paragraph (2) of the bill
    to the content of electronic communications ("operators and companies offering
    (articles 88-1 et seq.) is only possible for electronic communications services”).
    in the context of facts which carry a
    criminal penalty or a correctional penalty Article 5 paragraph (2) further specifies that
    whose maximum is equal to or greater than one year “a regulation of the Institute specifies, if necessary, the
    of imprisonment (article 67-1) respectively format and terms of provision
    two years imprisonment (article 88-2), technical data and equipment”.
    while the provisions relating to
    searches and seizures do not include The CNPD understands that this provision
    such conditions. In addition, the measures regulate the prior technical measures
    surveillance systems require the intervention of a device allowing the interception of data by
    investigating judge, even in the event of a crime or service providers or operators.
    flagrant offence. In contrast, data transmission
                                                                                     thus obtained by the service providers
    However, in order to take into account the appearance or operators to the judicial authorities and to the
    new forms of state intelligence services fall within the scope of
    electronic communication (offered by “article 3 paragraph (2) of bill n°7424
    over the top players” mentioned above by creating a common platform
    introduction), covered by the expanded definition of secure electronic transmission and
    of article 2 paragraph (4) of the draft law, the amendment: 1. of the code of criminal procedure,
    National Commission raises the question of 2. the amended law of 5 July 2016 on
    whether the current provisions of the Code of Reorganization of the Intelligence Service of
    criminal procedure (articles 67-1 and 88-1 to 88- the State. This article provides the following: “The format
    4) relating to the control of communications and the methods of execution according to which
    electronic are sufficient or if, on the other hand, the data collected within the meaning of Articles
    should introduce specific provisions 43-1, 67-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and
    in the Code of Criminal Procedure, see article 7, paragraph 2, of the law of July 5, 2016
    modify the existing provisions. The amended CNPD reorganizing the Service of
    further notes that the terms used State intelligence are to be transmitted,
    to designate the companies that must cooperate respectively with the judicial authorities and the
    with the authorities are not standardized State intelligence service, are defined
    in the Code of Criminal Procedure (“operator by Grand-Ducal regulation”. Said draft
    of telecommunications” and “provider law was the subject of opinion 40/2019 of June 5, 2019
    of a telecommunications service” to the CNPD170.


    168
          As regards article 67-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, cf. a judgment of the Court of Appeal, fifth chamber, 26 February 2008, judgment 106/08 V.
    169
          Article 7 paragraph (2) of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization of the State Intelligence Service uses the same
          terms.
    170
          https://cnpd.public.lu/content/dam/cnpd/fr/decisions-avis/2019/40-plateforme-unique-de-transmission-electronique-securisee.pdf.



                                                              202
Ad Article 8 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
                                                      and of the Council of April 27, 2016 relating to the
Article 8 paragraph (2) letter d) provides that the protection of natural persons with regard to
the Institut Luxembourgeois de Régulation (here- in the processing of personal data)
after: “the ILR”) is responsible for “contributing to the nel and the free circulation of this data, and
protection of the rights of end users in repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
the general electronic communications sector on data protection) and to
in coordination, where applicable, with others the amended law of 30 May 2005 concerning the
competent authorities ". privacy in the business sector
                                                      electronic communication”.
The CNPD wonders whether it is among the
competent authorities in question. She notes As she previously mentioned to
as well as the aforementioned “coordination” with regard to article 5, the CNPD considers that it would be
is regulated only by the provisions preferable that article 19 paragraph (1) 4° be
summaries of paragraphs (3) and (4) of the article refer to specific provisions of the Code of
8. For reasons of legal predictability and criminal procedure and the law of July 5, 2016
to ensure effective coordination between modified carrying reorganization of the Service
competent authorities, the National State Intelligence Commission, in order to improve
considers it necessary, on the one hand, to name in the foreseeable nature of the law within the meaning of
the draft law the competent authorities in the case law of the European Court of Rights
matter as well as clarifying their human skills.
and respective tasks, and on the other hand, to specify
the modalities of such coordination. The CNPD also notes that Article 19
                                                      paragraph (1) 4° does not apply to services
Ad article 19 interpersonal communications no
                                                      based on numbering whereas Article 5
Article 19 lists the obligations of which paragraph (2) also deals with cooperation.
combined with the general authorization, obligations of the companies with the monitoring measures
at the expense of companies that provide an ordered by the authorities is applicable
general communications network or service. She wonders if this difference in
except processing services is intended.
unfounded interpersonal communications
on the numbering. Article 33

Article 19 paragraph (1) 4° provides for “the easy Article 33 provides for the sanctions that the ILR may
tation of the legal interception by the authorities inflicting on companies that do not respect
competent national authorities, in accordance with certain provisions of the bill.




                                                             203
6 APPENDICES




    The CNPD wonders whether this article 33 does not In the absence of an exchange procedure
    could not in practice give rise to a risk of precisely regulated information,
    parallel administrative procedures which may arise, there is also the question of how
    lead to sanctions before the ILR and one of the two authorities will be aware
    CNPD for the same facts. that a procedure is in progress before the other
                                                                authority.
    One can think of facts constituting both
    a violation of article 42 of the bill and Does the authority which is or has seized the
    of article 32 of the GDPR, articles putting first should inform the other authority?
    company security obligations.
    Similarly, a fact constituting a violation of If it is accepted that the same fact can give rise to
    secrecy of correspondence also violates these procedures before the two authorities, is it
    article 19 paragraph (1) point 2 of the bill what the same fact can then also give
    that article 4 of the amended law of 30 May 2005 gives rise to administrative sanctions both by
    concerning the protection of privacy in the ILR or the CNPD, or on the other hand, such a double
    electronic communications sector. As an administrative sanction should it be excluded
    effect, pursuant to article 12 of the amended law of ex officio similar to the principle non bis in idem
    May 30, 2005, the National Commission for the existing criminal law? The CNPD estimates as soon as
    data protection is responsible for ensuring, when necessary, to clarify this issue
    the application of the provisions of the said law of 30 in the bill.
    May 2005 and its implementing regulations. We
    can also think of some violations of Ad article 43
    article 10 bis of the amended law of 30 May 2005.
    Indeed, Article 33 paragraph (4) of the draft Article 43 paragraph (5) provides for a
    under notice expressly mentions said article cooperation between the ILR and the CNPD in the
    10 bis among the legal provisions including the field of security of networks and services
    violation may give rise to a fine in the following terms:
    by ILR. However, under the aforementioned article 12 of the law
    amended on May 30, 2005, the CNPD is responsible “Depending on the needs and in accordance with
    to ensure the application of the said article 10 bis. national law, the Institute consults the authorities
                                                                competent courts, the Commission
    Several questions arise in this regard. supervision of the financial sector, and the
                                                                National Commission for the Protection of
    Would it be appropriate for an authority to suspend a data and cooperate with them. »
    procedure that can lead to a sanction
    when it is aware of the procedure The CNPD wonders what forms may be
    parallel before the other authority? take the cooperation provided for in this article.




                                                204
Is it just a question of coordinating privacy protection positions in the data protection sector?
of the two authorities on matters of principle electronic communications and in particular
relating to the security of communications by article 4 of this law.
and treatments? Or can there be a
cooperation on matters including one of However, at present, the definition of the
authorities is seized, for example in the context of "electronic communications service"
of sanction procedures of article 33 of article 2 letter (j) of the amended law of 30
mentioned above. Such cooperation in May 2005 as mentioned above is closer than that
would involve an exchange of information on Article 2 paragraph (4) of the draft law
files between the ILR and the CNPD, information which also includes “over the top players”.
are protected by professional secrecy. As explained above in the
                                                      commentary on section 2 of the draft law, and
Ad Article 112 in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 125
                                                      of Directive (EU) 2018/1972, the definitions
Article 112 reproduces article 100 of the directive of the amended law of 30 May 2005 concerning
(EU) 2018/1972 which imposes respect for the protection of privacy in the sector
fundamental rights in the electronic communications sector should
electronic communications. be adapted to comply with Article 2
                                                      of Directive (EU) 2018/1972.
The CNPD would like to draw attention to the fact that
this provision of the directive must no Otherwise, there would be a risk that certain
only be listed in an article of the new forms of communications
transposition law, but that, moreover, electronics are not covered by
national legal provisions applicable the provisions relating to the secrecy of
and practice must respect the correspondence principles of the amended law of 30 May
established in the directive and not to enter in 2005, at least as long as the future
conflict with said law. Regulation "ePrivacy" is not adopted and in
                                                      vigor.
This applies in particular to the secrecy of
communications protected in particular by Ad article 124
Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights
of the European Union. Article 124 paragraph (5) seeks to guarantee
                                                      quick location of the originator of a call
At present, the secrecy of emergency communications.
in electronic communications
is notably protected at the national level by The CNPD notes that at present, the question
the amended law of 30 May 2005 concerning the localization of emergency calls is




                                                             205
6 APPENDICES




    dealt with by Article 7 paragraph (5) of the For free calls, the
    amended law of 30 May 2005 concerning paragraph (2) paragraph 4 provides the following:
    protection of privacy in the sector of “Calls that are free for the user
    electronic communications. final calling, including calls to lines
                                                                               assistance, do not necessarily have to
    Moreover, a modification of said article 7 will be indicated on the detailed invoice of
    is being performed by the calling end user's project". This paragraph leaves
    of Law No. 7526 amending the a choice – apparently for the benefit of the
    amended law of 30 May 2005 relating to service providers and not to the customer –
    specific provisions for the protection of the inclusion or not of such appeals in
    person with regard to data processing detailed invoices.
    of a personal nature in the sector of
    electronic communications and carrying This contradicts the current Article 6 paragraph (2)
    modification of articles 88-2 and 88-4 of the Code of the amended law of May 30, 2005 concerning the
    of criminal investigation. The said bill made protection of privacy in the sector of
    the subject of notice 11/2020 of April 24, 2020 of electronic communications, paragraph
    CNPD171. This amendment is intended to permit which remains in force and which provides the following:
    location of calls via information “Free calls including those to lines
    obtained from the assistance mobile device are not indicated on the invoice
    the caller (i.e. in particular via detailed information regardless of his degree of
    location information by detail system. A clarification is therefore necessary in
    Global Navigation Satellite (GNSS) or via Bill.
    a Wi-Fi network).
                                                                               Article 132
    The CNPD understands that article 124 paragraph
    (5) supplements the aforementioned Article 7 of the law Article 132 paragraphs (1) and (2) governs
    modified of May 30, 2005 which remains in force the identification of the call line.
    after the entry into force of the law proposed under
    notice. It considers it necessary to specify in the The CNPD understands that article 132
    draft bill how this provision fits proposed subsections (1) and (2) complements the
    with the amendment made by the bill paragraphs (1) to (4) of article 7 of the law
    No. 7526. amended on May 30, 2005 concerning the
                                                                               privacy in the business sector
    Ad article 131 electronic communications, paragraphs
                                                                               which will remain in force after the entry into force
    Section 131 of the bill governs proposed law force bills under notice. THE
    detailed. authors of the bill should therefore clarify




    171
          https://cnpd.public.lu/content/dam/cnpd/fr/decisions-avis/2020/11-communication-electroniques-PL7526.pdf



                                                           206
the articulation of the bill under opinion with
the provisions of the amended law of 30 May
2005 concerning the protection of life
private in the communications sector
electronics.

Thus decided in Belvaux on March 3, 2021.

The National Commission for the Protection of
data

Tine A. Larsen
President

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner




                                                 207
6 APPENDICES



Second additional opinion of the National Commission
for data protection relating to the bill
No. 7498 amending the amended law of July 18 amended of July 18, 2018 on the Grand Police
2018 on the Grand Ducal Police. ducale (hereafter the “draft law”)172.
(Deliberation n°8/AV7/2021 of 3/03/2021)
                                                                                                       As of April 17, 2020, the Commission
                                                                                                       National Council issued its additional opinion on
                   In accordance with Article 46, paragraph the government amendment to the draft
                   1st, letter (c) of the directive (UE) n° 2016/680 law, approved by the Council of Government
                   of April 27, 2016 relating to the protection of in its meeting of March 20, 2020173.
                   natural persons with regard to the processing
                   personal data by the On November 19, 2020, the Commission for the
                   competent authorities for preventive purposes Homeland Security and Defense has adopted a
                   criminal offenses, investigations and series of amendments relating to the bill
                   proceedings in the matter or execution of (hereinafter the "amendments").
                   criminal penalties, and the free movement of
                   such data, and repealing the Framework Decision Insofar as the amendments concern
                   2008/977/JHA of the Council (hereinafter referred to as provisions which have been commented on by the
                   “the directive”), to which the CNPD article refers in its aforementioned opinions of 28 February and 17
                   8 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of April 2020, the latter takes the matter itself to notify them.
                   of the National Commission for the Protection
                   data and the general regime on the 1. On the amendments adopted
                   data protection (hereinafter the "Law by the Security Commission
                   of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the interior and Defense
                   National Commission for Protection
                   of the data and the general regime on the - Ad Amendment 1
                   data protection”), the Commission
                   National Data Protection Authority Amendment 1 is intended to modify the
                   (hereinafter the “National Commission” or paragraph (1) of the new Article 43bis of the
                   “CNPD”), “advises the Chamber of the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Grand-Police
                   deputies, the Government and other ducal. This change consists of adding
                   institutions and bodies with regard to the measures of the purposes “as they appeared in article
                   legislative and administrative provisions relating to 17, paragraph 1, letter (a) of the amended law of
                   protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals August 2, 2002 relating to the protection of
                   persons with regard to data processing persons with regard to data processing
                   personal”. of a personal nature”.

                   On February 28, 2020, the CNPD notified the project The National Commission welcomes-
                   of Law No. 7498 amending the law lies this addition when it had suggested it in

                   172
                         Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018
                         on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°04/2020 of 28 February 2020.
                   173
                         Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the law
                         modified on July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°10/2020 of April 17, 2020.
                   174
                         Comment by the authors of the bill under "Amendment 1", parliamentary document n°7498/06, page 1.



                                                                                208
its opinion of February 28, 2020 on the draft If the will of the authors of the bill is not
law175, following the example of the Council of State in its opinion on the step of extending video surveillance to places
March 10, 2020176. where fines would be committed, it
                                                                                    there is reason to question the relevance of the
Regarding the replacement of the terminology used. Therefore, should it not
terms “particular risk of commission not taking up the proposal of the Council of State
of crimes or misdemeanors or breaches of the law in its opinion of March 10, 2020 in that it
safety of persons or property” proposes to refer to the terms “crimes or
by the notion of “particular risk of offences”180?
commission of criminal offences”, it is necessary
to note that this modification resumes Finally, insofar as the change of
substantially the terms of Article 17, terminology entails a broadening of the
paragraph (1) letter d) of the amended law on the 2 scope of video surveillance,
August 2002 relating to the protection of persons the CNPD takes the liberty of insisting on the importance
with regard to the processing of personal data involved in the impact assessment which should be
personal177. carried out in particular with regard to the
                                                                                    justification of the need for CCTV
This change is guided by stewardship with regard to the criteria defined in
tion of the authors of the bill not to paragraph (2) of the new article 43bis and of the
“limit video surveillance to categories of purposes pursued.
specific offences”. However, these
latter seem to want to exclude contra- - Ad Amendment 2
ventions of the scope of the bill
under notice. With regard to the replacement of the terms
                                                                                    “crimes or misdemeanors or security breaches
Indeed, the authors of the bill specify persons or property" by the words
that “[t]he use of the terms “criminal offences”, the CNPD refers to its
penalties”, which include those qualified as comments above.
contraventions, does not in any way mean that
the intention is to extend video surveillance The National Commission welcomes
at places where fines are in addition to the other modifications but takes into account
wagers »179. nevertheless to reiterate his comments


175
      Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law n°7498 amending the amended law of
      July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°04/2020 of February 28, 2020, page 5.
176
      Opinion of the Council of State of March 10, 2020 relating to bill n°7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Police
      Grand-Ducale, parliamentary document n°7498/01, page 2.
177
      Article 17 paragraph (1) letter d) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
      personal nature provides that “[t]he subject of a Grand-Ducal regulation: the creation and operation, for the purposes and conditions referred to under (a), of a
      security area video surveillance system. Is to be considered as such any place accessible to the public which by its nature, its situation, its
      configuration or its frequentation presents an increased risk of committing criminal offenses. The safety zones are fixed in the
      conditions provided for by Grand-Ducal regulation”.
178
      Comment by the authors of the bill under "Amendment 1", parliamentary document n°7498/06, page 2.
179
      Comment by the authors of the bill under "Amendment 1", parliamentary document n°7498/06, page 2.
180
      Opinion of the Council of State of March 10, 2020 relating to bill n°7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Police
      Grand-Ducale, parliamentary document n°7498/01, page 3.



                                                                                              209
6 APPENDICES




    formulated in its additional opinion of Furthermore, the authors of the bill
    April 17, 2020 relating to the bill181 in this further specify in their commentary of
    that it suggests, following the example of the Council of State182, the amendment under the opinion that “[the] prohibition of
    the deletion of point 4° of paragraph (2) use of recognition techniques
    of the new article 43bis of the amended facial law is therefore not to be understood as
    of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police. a general prohibition and does not imply
                                                                                     in particular not that these techniques
                  - Ad Amendment 3 may not be used in the context of
                                                                                     criminal prosecution to elucidate offenses
    The National Commission is pleased that criminal cases according to the rules of procedure
    authors of the bill have replaced the term criminal”.
    “security zone” by “place”, as it
    had suggested in its additional opinion On this subject, the attention of the
    of 17 April 2020 relating to the bill183, like the authors of the bill on the fact that the appeal
    of the Council of State. facial recognition techniques
                                                                                     in the law enforcement field, currently in
                  - Ad Amendment 4 discussion at European level, still remains
                                                                                     very questionable from the point of view of
    The authors of the Data Protection and Privacy Bill are to be congratulated.
    about the changes made to the article
    43bis new, paragraph (5), subparagraph 2, en - Ad Amendment 5
    that these provisions provide that "[t]he
    use of reconnaissance techniques The CNPD welcomes the fact that the perpetrators of the
    facial is excluded”. bill have incorporated the proposals
                                                                                     made in its opinion of February 28, 2020 relating
    The sponsors of the bill have in particular to the bill with regard to paragraph
    followed the suggestion made by the CNPD in (6) of the new article 43bis of the amended law
    its opinion of 28 February 2020 on the project of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police.
    of law. The National Commission regrets
    however that the text under opinion does not repeat - Ad Amendment 6
    not his suggestion regarding the exclusion of
    sound capture. The purpose of this amendment is in particular
                                                                                     to delete the reference made to “[t]he Police


    181
          Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the law
          modified on July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°10/2020 of April 17, 2020, pages 1 and 2.
    182
          V. additional opinion of the Council of State of May 12, 2020 relating to bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018
          on the Grand Ducal Police, parliamentary document n°7498/04, page 2 and second additional opinion of the Council of State of February 23, 2021
          relating to bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police, page 3.
    183
          Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the law
          amended on July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°10/2020 of April 17, 2020, pages 2 and 3.
    184
          Additional opinion of the Council of State of May 12, 2020 relating to bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of July 18, 2018
          on the Grand Ducal Police, parliamentary document n°7498/04, page 2.
    185
          Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law n°7498 amending the amended law of
          July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°04/2020 of February 28, 2020, page 7.



                                                              210
Grand Ducal State, represented by its Director The National Commission notes the introduction
general” in its capacity as responsible for such a purpose in a legal basis which
treatment. is indeed necessary in accordance with Article
                                                                             8, paragraph (1) of the law of 1 August 2018 relating
This deletion takes place "[in] light of the protection of natural persons at
work to develop a legal basis for the processing of personal data
relating to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters
of a personal nature carried out by the National Security Police.
grand-ducal”186.
                                                                             On reading the comment of the amendment
Indeed, it should be noted that Article 4 of the sub-opinion, the National Commission includes
bill n°7741 inserts a new article 43-3 that the "recorded images" would be
in the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Police used by the Grand-Ducal Police to
Grand-Ducale, which designates the Grand-Ducal Police, “analyze the conduct of
ducale as responsible for processing the intervention, as well as for the purposes of
for the processing of data for internal training, with the aim of improving the
staff it performs. plans and procedures for future interventions
                                                                             of the same type”.
             - Ad Amendment 7
                                                                             However, as noted by the Council of State
This amendment supplements paragraph (9) in its second supplementary opinion of
of the new article 43bis in that it provides February 23, 2021 “the use of the terms “[t]he
that the data would not be erased processing of personal data
after a period of two months for the cases referred to for the purposes of prevention, research and
in the new paragraph (11), introduced by said finding of criminal offenses "ready to
amendment. believe that all of the data used
                                                                             by the Grand-Ducal Police for the purposes of
This new paragraph (11) of article 43bis prevention, research and observation
new provides that “[t]he processing of criminal offenses could be used
personal data for the purposes of the other purposes set out therein. Such a
prevention, research and observation provision, in addition to the fact that it does not
of Criminal Offenses may be used by the with the intent of the perpetrators as set forth
Police for purposes of analysis of progress in the commentary of the amendment, would exceed
operations, including the examination of incidents, the subject of the draft law”187.
with the objective of improving the plans
and intervention procedures, as well as for purposes The CNPD still agrees with the questions
internal training. raised by the Council of State insofar as it



186
      Comment by the authors of the bill under “Amendment 6”, parliamentary document n°7498/06, page 5.
187
      Second additional opinion of the Council of State of February 23, 2021 relating to bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of
      18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, parliamentary document n°7498/08, page 5.



                                                                                       211
6 APPENDICES




    “asks whether it is necessary to resort to paragraph 1 can be used for
    all the data collected through didactic and pedagogical purposes within the framework
    video surveillance or if it would not be enough to train members of the security services
    refer only to data relating to policies”.
    large-scale police interventions and
    of interest for the analysis It should be noted that the anonymization of data
    of the course of the intervention and the personal data has as
    internal training”188. consequence that once anonymized, the
                                                                                 data are no longer subject to the GDPR and their
    Furthermore, in the absence of details as to whether distribution or reuse has no impact on
    to the technical measures that would be taken the privacy of the persons concerned.
    (e.g. masking technique or
    blurring of people's faces If the intention of the authors of the bill is not
    concerned) in order to use the images from not to provide that the data is
    video surveillance "for anonymized analysis purposes, the National Commission regrets
    workflow, including consideration that the retention period of images for
    incidents with the objective of improving the purposes indicated in paragraph (11) of
    response plans and procedures, as well as in the new article 43bis has not been specified.
    for internal training purposes", the Commission
    national authority is not in a position to assess whether It should be recalled that according to Article 5
    the principle of data minimization is paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, the data
    complied with in this case. of a personal nature should not be
                                                                                 stored longer than necessary to
    The authors of the bill should, as soon as the purposes for which they
    therefore, specify what data is collected and processed. Beyond that, the data
    would be consulted for the intended purposes must be deleted or anonymized.
    in paragraph (11) of the new article 43bis
    as well as the technical means which would be Or, in the absence of such details in the
    taken in order to reuse the images from the bill under opinion, the National Commission
    video surveillance for such purposes. is not in a position to assess whether this principle
                                                                                 is respected.
    For comparison, it is interesting to
    note that in Belgium, article 25/7 paragraph Therefore, the CNPD considers that the duration of
    (2) of the amended law on the conservation police function should be defined in the draft
    of August 5, 1992 provides that “[a]fter the law or that it should at least specify
    anonymization, the character data the criteria that would be taken into account in order to
    personnel and information referred to in determine what is the retention period




    188
          Second additional opinion of the Council of State of February 23, 2021 relating to bill no. 7498 amending the amended law of
          18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, parliamentary document n°7498/08, page 5.



                                                            212
proportionate for data from the may take the initiative, with permission
video surveillance and processed for the purposes of the Minister, to extend the system of
set out in paragraph (11) of article 43bis VISUPOL video surveillance to other
new. municipal territories than that of the City
                                                                             from Luxemburg. In the event that said
             2. On the advice of the Syndicate system would be extended to other territories
                towns and municipal communes, shouldn't we provide for a
                luxembourgoises189 system which would not be based solely on the
                                                                             initiative of the Director General of the Grand-
It is referred to the developments of the ducal CNPD?
in its opinion of February 28, 2020 and its opinions of
15 March 2019 relating to the video surveillance of The CNPD wonders whether the initiative to place
public spaces and places for security purposes under surveillance a public place or space
public (deliberation no. 36/2019) and of May 10 could not also be taken on the initiative
2019 relating to the use of video surveillance by the mayor with territorial jurisdiction,
by the municipalities (deliberation n°39/2019) as suggested by the Union of towns and
on the need to introduce a framework for Luxembourg municipalities in its opinion
legal permitting a municipality wishing to dated January 25, 2021 relating to the bill190.
install, as data controller, Nevertheless, the National Commission issues
a video surveillance device in the reserves regarding the proposed rewording
public spaces for public security purposes, of new Article 43bis, paragraph (1), made
generally including the safety of by SYVICOL in its aforementioned opinion then
people and property. that neither the aforementioned municipal law nor the law on the
                                                                             Grand-ducal police referred to above does not specify the
The National Commission again refers to its competences of the mayors in terms of
opinion of February 28, 2020 and March 15 and May 10 administrative police.
2019 cited above with respect to interactions
between the police and the mayors while the CNPD stresses once again that
neither the municipal law of December 13, 1988 nor VISUPOL is a video surveillance system
the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Police operated by the Grand-Ducal Police as
Grand-Ducale does not specify the competences responsible for the processing, which will not have,
of mayors in police matters a priori, intended to be extended to other
administration. municipal territories than that of the City of
                                                                             Luxembourg and that the issue of
Finally, it should be noted that the lawfulness of video camera surveillance bill
under review currently provides that only public spaces or places carried out at
the Director General of the Grand Ducal Police the initiative of the Communes is not resolved


189
      Opinion of the Syndicate of Luxembourg Towns and Municipalities of 25 January 2021, relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the law
      amended on July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, parliamentary document no. 7498/07.
190
      Opinion of the Syndicate of Luxembourg Towns and Municipalities of 25 January 2021, relating to draft law no. 7498 amending the law
      amended on July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, parliamentary document no. 7498/07, page 2.



                                                                                      213
6 APPENDICES




    by the bill under consideration. Therefore, the
    National Commission can only reiterate
    its observations formulated in its opinions of
    March 15, 2019 relating to the video surveillance of
    public spaces and places for security purposes
    public (deliberation n° 36/2019) and of 10 May
    2019 relating to the use of video surveillance
    by the municipalities (deliberation n°39/2019).

    Thus decided in Belvaux on March 3, 2021.

    The National Commission for the Protection of
    data

    Tine A. Larsen
    President

    Christopher Buschman
    Commissioner

    Marc Lemmer
    Commissioner




                                         214
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                        data relating to bill no. 7751 amending
                                                        1° the Social Security Code; 2° the Labor Code;
                                                        3° the amended law of 15 December 1993 determining the
                                                        staff of administrations, services and
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter from the Social Security Courts; and 4° the amended law
(c) Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 of July 28, 2000, the purpose of which is to coordinate
relating to the protection of natural persons statutory pension schemes.
with regard to the processing of personal data (Deliberation n°8/AV8/2021 of 03/03/2021)
personnel and the free movement of such data,
and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
general on data protection)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which Article 7 refers
of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of references to other laws, the rectification of errors
the National Commission for the protection of materials or necessary adaptations
data and the general protection regime following the entry into force of other laws having
data, the National Commission for an Impact on Social Security Legislation,
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the law of 8 March 2018 relating to
“the National Commission” or “the CNPD”) hospital establishments and planning
“advises, in accordance with the law of the hospital state. Furthermore, the authors of the project
member, the national parliament, the government of law specify that "in accordance with the wish
and other institutions and organizations about the National Commission for the Protection
legislative and administrative measures of the data, the provisions concerning the
relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of the retention period of the data processed
natural persons with regard to the processing”. in the shared care record, which are
                                                        currently in a Grand-Ducal regulation,
As of January 21, 2021, the Minister are incorporated into the law in article 60quater of the
of Social Security referred the matter to the Social Security Code Commission. »
of a request for an opinion on the project
of Law No. 7751 amending 1° the Safety Code The National Commission thus intends to limit
social; 2° the Labor Code; 3° the amended law its observations on the provisions of the draft
of 15 December 1993 determining the framework of law no. 7751 having an impact on compliance
staff of administrations, services and privacy and data protection to
social security jurisdictions; and 4° the personal character law, and more particularly
amended on July 28, 2000, the purpose of which is its article 1, point 19, which specifically aims to
coordination of statutory pension schemes (here- modifying the aforementioned article 60quater of the
after: “bill n°7751”). social Security.

According to the explanatory memorandum, draft law Ad article 1 point 19 of draft law n°7751
No. 7751 is intended to make corrections
to the Social Security Code for different Currently, the retention period of
reasons, including in particular the updating of the data entered in the care file




                                                               215
6 APPENDICES




    is provided for in article 10 paragraph in the shared care file. Nevertheless,
    (5) of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 6 December it notes that the last two paragraphs
    2019 specifying the terms and conditions of section 10 paragraph (5) of the regulations
    implementation of the shared care file. Grand Ducal of 6 December 2019 specifying the
                                                                                       terms and conditions for setting up the
    Article 1 point 19 of bill n°7751 under shared care file have not been included
    opinion “aims to enshrine the principle of by the authors of bill no. 7751. So,
    retention period of the data processed the CNPD recommends that they complete the
    with derogations guaranteeing flexibility, new paragraph (6) of Article 60quater of the
    as retained at the time of the drafting of the Social Security Code by the two paragraphs
    Grand-Ducal regulation, in the following article 60quater:
    of the Social Security Code. » 191
                                                                                       “The agreement of the holder is dated and recorded in
    Already in its opinion of April 5, 2018 relating to its space for personal expression in
    draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the application of shared care records.
    the terms and conditions for setting up
    of the shared care file, the CNPD had By way of derogation from the first paragraph, the information
    considered that in view of the principle of lawfulness of a relating to the personal expression of the holder
    processing of personal data from the shared care file are kept
    which must be read in the light of Article 8 until the latter modifies them or
    paragraph (2) of the European Convention deletes. »
    of human rights concerning the right to
    respect for privacy, as well as the article Finally, in its aforementioned opinion of April 5
    52 paragraphs (1) and (2) of the 2018 Charter, the CNPD had estimated that on the basis of the
    fundamental rights of the European Union192, the aforementioned principles, the provisions
    the provisions concerning the duration of regulating the rights of minor holders
    retention of data at the DSP should not emancipated and protected adults holders
    provided for in law in the strict sense of by law should also be provided for in
    term and more precisely by the article the law in the strict sense of the term and more precisely
    60quater of the Social Security Code, and by article 60quater of the Security Code
    not in a regulatory act. social, and not in a regulatory act.

    In general, the CNPD cannot therefore In its additional opinion of 18 October
    that support the aforementioned amendment 2019 relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
    to insert a paragraph (6) in the article specifying the terms and conditions of
    60quater of the Social Security Code on the implementation of the shared care file,193 the
    retention period of the data provided National Commission had noted that the



    191
          See comment of article 1st point 19 of bill n°7751.
    192
          For more details, the CNPD refers to its deliberation n° 242/2018 of April 5, 2018.
    193
          Deliberation n° 51/2019 October 18, 2019.



                                                                216
authors of the said project simply had legislative measures necessary to take
deleted former article 7 of the draft taking into account the said considerations on the
Grand-Ducal regulation concerning the rights holders of non-emancipated minor holders
non-emancipated minors and adult holders and adult holders protected by law. She
protected by law for the following reasons: therefore wonders why the authors of the
"The opinions of the Council of State and the Commission draft law n ° 7751 did not benefit from the project
national data protection law under review to introduce the measures
establish that Article 7, at least in part, legislative in question.
derogates from the rules relating to minors and
adults protected by law as provided for Thus decided in Belvaux on March 3, 2021.
to the Civil Code.
                                                   The National Commission for the Protection of
Thus, with a view to respecting the hierarchy of data
of the standards, article 7 is deleted, the
provisions that introduce rights Tine A. Larsen
specific for certain minors to be President
included in the special laws governing
their rights. » Christopher Buschman
                                                   Commissioner
However, unless it is mistaken, the CNPD observes
that no bill has been tabled at the Marc Lemmer
Chamber of Deputies, with a view to adopting the Commissioners




                                                         217
6 APPENDICES




Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to draft law no. 7784 amending It appears from the explanatory memorandum that this
of the amended law of July 17, 2020 on control measures, the bill aims to maintain the restrictions
against the Covid-19 pandemic. currently in place until April 2, 2021
(Deliberation n°10/AV9/2021 of 8/03/2021) included, while creating "a legal basis for
                                                                                                 the application of temporary measures that may
                                                                                                 be taken as part of the fight against
                                                                                                 Covid 19 pandemic in education
                                                                                                 national and with regard to the measures of
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, reorganization and suspension having an impact
                   letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April on childcare facilities. »
                   2016 relating to the protection of persons
                   with regard to the processing of data The CNPD notes that Article 3 of the
                   of a personal nature and the free movement of bill n°7784 provides for the insertion of a new
                   these data, and repealing directive 95/46/article 4ter in the amended law of July 17, 2020
                   EC (general regulation on the protection of measures to combat the pandemic
                   data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which Covid-19 is listed in its paragraph 1
                   refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on a whole series of temporary measures that
                   organization of the National Commission for can be taken as part of the fight
                   the protection of data and the general regime against the Covid-19 pandemic, in the presence
                   on data protection, the Commission of a local or national resurgence of
                   national authority for data protection (here - infections involving health risks
                   after designated “the National Commission” for the local or global population with
                   or “the CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the important chains of infections in
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, the structures referred to in paragraph 2 of that
                   government and other institutions and Article 4tter. One of these measures194 constitutes
                   organizations about legislative measures the shift to distance education for
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of some or all of the
                   rights and freedoms of individuals in public and private schools such as
                   with regard to the treatment”. as defined in points 1 and 2 of paragraph
                                                                                                 2 of the new article 4ter of the amended law of
                   On March 5, 2021, Madam Minister of July 17, 2020 on measures to combat
                   Health has seized the National Commission of a Covid-19 pandemic.
                   request for an opinion on bill n°7784
                   amending the amended law of 17 In general, the CNPD congratulates the
                   July 2020 on the measures to combat the authors of bill n°7784 under examination
                   Covid-19 pandemic (hereinafter the “draft law to have created a legal basis allowing,
                   No. 7784"). under certain conditions, switching to a




                   194
                         As provided for by point 2° of paragraph 1 of the new article 4ter of the amended law of 17 July 2020 on measures to combat
                         Covid-19 pandemic.



                                                                           218
distance learning for part or Finally, the CNPD regrets that the authors
for all educational establishments of Bill No. 7784 did not take into account
public and private. However, she regrets that the comments made in her
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provided for in the opinion of 16 February 2021 relating to the draft law
new article 4ter paragraph (3) of law no. 7768 amending the amended law
amended of July 17, 2020 on measures of July 17, 2020 on control measures
fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, which should against the Covid-19 pandemic.195
determine the “temporary measures taken
pursuant to the conditions set out in the Thus decided in Belvaux on March 8, 2021.
paragraph 1 of this article, the duration of
their application, as well as the structures and The National Commission for the Protection of
the activities covered by the application of said data
measures", is not attached to this draft
de, law so that the CNPD is not able Tine A. Larsen
to assess the impact on potential Presidents
provisions for the protection of
data. Thierry Lallemang
                                                                              Commissioner
She also wonders who will decide
concretely of the implementation of these Christophe Buschmann
measures. Will it be the Minister of Commissioner
Health or, where appropriate, the Minister of
National Education, Childhood and Marc Lemmer
Youth ? Commissioner




195
      Deliberation n°5/AV4/2021 of February 16, 2021: https://cnpd.public.lu/content/dam/cnpd/fr/decisions-avis/2021/Avis-05-AV4-2021-du-16-fevrier -
      2021-PL7768-amending-the-covid-law.pdf.



                                                                                        219
6 APPENDICES



Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7741 amending
 1° of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Police – the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
ducal; 2° of the amended law of 5 July 2016 on "advises the Chamber of Deputies, the
reorganization of the State Intelligence Service; Government and other institutions and
3° of the Penal Code. organizations about legislation
(Deliberation n°10/AV10/2021 of 03/16/2021) and administrative documents relating to the protection
                                                                                                      human rights and freedoms
                                                                                                      with regard to the processing of
                                                                                                      personal data ".
                   Introduction
                                                                                                  2. By letter dated December 18, 2020,
                   1. In accordance with article 8 of the law of 1 August
                                                                                                     Minister of Homeland Security
                      2018 on the organization of the Commission invited the National Commission to notify the
                      National Data Protection Bill No. 7741 amending 1° of
                      and the general protection regime the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Police
                      data (hereinafter the “grand-ducal law of 1 August; 2° of the amended law of 5 July
                      2018 on the organization of the CNPD”), 2016 on the reorganization of the
                      transposing Article 46, paragraph 1, State information; and 3° of the Penal Code.
                      letter (e) of directive (EU) n° 2016/680 Dated December 30, 2020, the bill
                      of April 27, 2016 relating to the protection of was tabled in the Chamber of Deputies.
                      natural persons with regard to the processing
                      personal data by 3. In 2019, the CNPD was approached by Mr.
                      competent authorities for the purposes of the Minister of Homeland Security for
                      for the prevention of criminal offences, issue an opinion on the subject of the central file
                      investigations and prosecutions in this area or the Grand Ducal Police with regard to the
                      execution of penal sanctions, and to the free legislation in matters of protection of
                      circulation of these data, and repealing data196.
                      Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA
                      (hereinafter referred to as the “Directive”), in 4. According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill
                      the framework of the law of 1 August 2018 relating “aims to regulate the processing of
                      to the protection of natural persons personal data carried out
                      with regard to the processing of data in the files of the Grand Ducal Police,
                      personal character in criminal matters and more specifically in the central file.
                      as well as in terms of national security It aims to address criticism in terms of
                      (hereinafter the “Law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection of data which have been
                      to the processing of data in matters raised in relation to the files of the
                      criminal justice”, the National Commission for the Police, and more particularly in relation to
                      data protection (hereinafter referred to in the central file in summer 2019).




                   196
                         Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the central file of the Grand Ducal Police with regard to the legislation
                         on data protection, Deliberation n° 45/2019 of September 13, 2019.



                                                                            220
1. Access to files of others on the necessity and proportionality of
     administrations “direct access, via a computer system”,
                                                    to such data processing. The CNPD notes
5. The CNPD notes with interest that the bill also that, in terms of the protection of
   features an update to the data layout, there is a noticeable difference between a
   existing concerning access to “direct access, via a computer system” processing
   of personal data put in place and the notion of "receiving without delay", via a
   implemented by other state administrations. deferred access. The two transmissions of
                                                    data of a data controller
6. Article 1 of the bill proposes to another can be done by means of a
   replace Article 43 of the amended Computer System Act. This system can
   July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police by operating by direct access, without
   the new article 43 taking up a major intervention by the controller,
   part of the existing provision, while the or "on request", with the intervention
   updating on some points. The data controller article
   43 new rules direct access, through one to which the computer system allows
   computer system, by members of to access. However, when setting up a
   the Grand-Ducal Police has a number of direct accesses, the data controller
   state databases. Compared to managing the register in question does not intervene
   article 43 in force, the authors of the project a priori more on the accesses carried out by the
   of law propose to extend direct access to the Grand Ducal Police and, consequently, it
   following data processing: in a way loses “control” over the
                                                    data for which he is responsible.
   - the land register; Especially for treatments
   - the register of beneficial owners; newly added to the list for
   - the public register of buildings of plea- which the corresponding legislation
     meeting flying the Luxembourg flag; does not explicitly provide for such access,
   - the central electronic system of re- the absence of justification in the presentation
     search for data concerning patterns or in the commentary of
     payment accounts and item accounts makes it impossible to assess whether this
     banks identified by an IBAN number and access is necessary and proportional and if
     safes kept by establishments - this access must be "direct, by a system
     credit facilities in Luxembourg; and computing”. The National Commission
   - the register of trusts and trusts. therefore cannot assess whether these accesses are
                                                    necessary in a democratic society,
7. The CNPD points out that the statement of reasons and subject to the principle of proportionality
   the comments of the articles remain silent and of necessity.




                                                        221
6 APPENDICES




    8. The CNPD regrets that the draft regulation when the said provisions govern
       Grand Ducal referred to in Article 43, paragraph 5, explicitly access. The layout under
       as provided for by article 1 of the bill, the purpose of the examination is to ensure that the Grand-Ducal Police
       not been communicated at the same time as the may have direct access, by a
       bill while this regulatory act computer system, to these treatments of
       is already provided, in identical terms, given within the limits of the purposes and
       in the existing Article 43, paragraph 3. To this method of processing carried out by the
       regard, the CNPD recalls that, in its opinion Police grand-ducale.
       relating to bill no. 7045 reforming
       of the Grand-Ducal Police197 having succeeded 11. For example, direct access to the
       to the said amended law of July 18, 2018, it "central electronic research system
       had already considered that it “would have been wise to provide data concerning accounts
       attach a payment plan and bank accounts at the same time
       Grand-Ducal Regulation” and that, in the absence identified by an IBAN number and
       of such a text, the CNPD “is not in a position to be held by establishments of
       to assess the need for and proportionality of credit in Luxembourg” provided for in Article 43,
       data accessed. paragraph 2), number 6°, must be read together
                                                                                     with the provisions of the law of March 25
    9. The databases referred to in article 43 2020 establishing an electronic system
       are created and maintained by other data retrieval centers regarding
       administrations in application of the laws of IBAN accounts and safe deposit boxes.
       and specific regulations. These This law provides, by virtue of Article 1 lu
       legislative and regulatory provisions together with article 8 of the said law that:
       continue to supervise treatment
       of personal data and "judicial police officers and officers
       may provide for specific conditions of judicial police assigned to the Service
       concerning access by members of the judicial police, as well as officers
       Grand Ducal Police. judicial police referred to in Article 10 of the
                                                                                     Code of Criminal Procedure and approved by the
    10. Thus, it seems obvious that the current Director General of the Grand Ducal Police
        provision does not alter the provisions […] may, insofar as it is
        existing regulations governing this processing of necessary in the performance of the
        data, but confers the right to the persons obligations incumbent on them in terms of
        authorized to access it within the limits of the fight against money laundering and
        specific access conditions provided for financing of terrorism, ask the
        in the provisions setting up the CSSF, according to the procedure adopted by the CSSF
        said processing, in particular and under the conditions of paragraph 3, of



    197
          Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on draft law no. 7044 reforming the General Inspectorate
          of the Police, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to the operation of the General Inspectorate of the Police and draft law n° 7045
          reforming the Grand Ducal Police, Deliberation No. 264/2017 of 24 March 2017.



                                                            222
receive without delay the data referred to cartographic and geodetic managed
   Article 2, paragraph 1”. by the administration of the cadastre and the
                                                             topography; and setting the tariff
12. Consequently, Article 43, paragraph 2, point of taxes to be collected for the benefit of the State
    6°, allows authorized agents of the for office and field work
    Grand-ducal police to “ask the executed by the Land Registry Administration
    CSSF […] to receive without delay the data and topography provided for in its article
    targeted […]”. 9 that the Administration of Cadastre and
                                                             topography (ACT) “grants rights
13. With regard to access to the “register of access relating to online consultation
    trusts” referred to in Article 43, in the form of pre-established requests from a
    paragraph 2, number 7°, article 25 of the law, part or all of the land registers
    of 10 July 2020 establishing a Register of […] to […] administrations and services of
    trusts and trusts, read together with the State”. On the one hand, this results in an access
    article 1 of this law provides, in the indirect paragraph, granted by the ACT, which is not
    1st, that “the judicial police officers referred to are equivalent to direct access as referred to
    in article 10 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the provision under consideration.
    approved by the Director General of Police
    Grand Duchy […] have access to information 15. Regarding access to the public register of
    referred to in Article 14 registered in the Register of pleasure craft flying the flag
    of trusts and trusts” and specifies in Luxembourgish created by the law of 23 September
    paragraph 2 that "The 1997 Membership Rules regulating the
    implementation concerning the granting of access […] pleasure boating and amending
    are fixed by Grand-Ducal regulation”. However, fication of certain other provisions
    this Grand-Ducal regulation does not exist in law, the said law does not explicitly provide
    actual state. Be that as it may, the aforementioned law of possibility of direct access, but seems
    does not provide for direct access and the CNPD opens the way for consultation requests.
    wonders whether the modalities to be defined in tion on the part of the State administrations.
    the Grand-Ducal regulation concerned can
    effectively provide for such direct access without 16. Therefore, the CNPD recommends specifying
    go beyond article 25 of the aforementioned law. the wording of Article 43, adding
                                                              that access is made “according to the terms
14. With regard to access to land registers, defined in the provisions governing
    the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 10 August 2018 the processing of data” referred to in
    laying down the terms and conditions of said provision. Otherwise, the provision
    of consultation and delivery of the under consideration risks modifying
    cadastral, topographical documentation, indirectly the aforementioned laws even then




                                                                 223
6 APPENDICES




           than direct access by other authorities of a special law. In this regard, the CNPD does not
           having access to data processing cannot subscribe to the proposed analysis of
           referred to was not initially intended by Article 6, paragraph 1, letter e), of the GDPR
           legislator. by the authors in the commentary of
                                                                                             items.
    17. The authors explain, in the commentary
        silence articles, that in their opinion, “the 1.1. The aims
        GDPR no longer requires having a database
        19. The new article 43, paragraph 1, provides for
        access to data or for the transfer of that:
        this data to another administration
        ”.However, even if these considerations “In the exercise of their missions of
        fall outside the strict framework of this judicial police and administrative police project
        of law, the CNPD emphasizes that such access or for administrative purposes, the members
        direct must, from the point of view of the Police administrator having the quality of officer or
        ration in question, in principle be expected to be a judicial police officer or an officer
        by a legal provision with regard in particular to or administrative police officer have
        ment in Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 4, and direct access, via a computer system,
        recitals, 41, 45 and 50 of the GDPR198. In the processing of personal data
        the absence of such a legal provision, the following personnel: […]”
        CNPD is of the opinion that the administrations
        20. The new article 43, paragraph 2 provides for
        direct access to data processing at (?) also that direct access can be
        the Grand Ducal Police. Such access is to be made “in the exercise of their missions
        distinguish from transmission on a case-by-case basis by the judicial police and the administrative
        cases on the basis of procedural rules or for administrative purposes”. There
        in place, in particular under existing provisions, there is no difference in this respect between the
        provisions of the code of criminal procedure. paragraph 1 and 2 of the provision
                                                                                            under examination, if only concerning
    18. Thus, a distinction should be made between direct access: the list of persons who can have access
        from the Grand Ducal Police to data, which will be the subject of further development
        held by other jurisdictions far away.
        indirect access or transmission
        manual of data by an administration 21. However, the National Commission notes with
        to the Grand Ducal Police in the execution of regrets that, in addition to the already existing access
        judicial police or police missions “in the exercise of their missions of
        administrative or missions arising from judicial police and administrative police

    198
          For the criteria that such a legal provision must meet, see in particular BESCH, Marc, “Personal data processing
          in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619: “Or, such as
          the Council of State points out, in compliance with Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which establishes as matters reserved for the law the exceptions to the
          guarantee by the State of the protection of privacy, the conditions under which the data may be processed for a purpose other than that
          for which they were collected must be the subject of a law, at least as regards the essential elements of the matter. ".



                                                                 224
tive”199, the authors propose that data processing in criminal matters
        members of the Grand Ducal Police and also covers processing that does not
        can access the same bases do not fall under the scope
        data “for administrative purposes”, i.e. the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018, but
        i.e. an additional purpose to the accesses which falls within the scope of the
        on the grounds of administrative police, and not GDPR. In particular, the CNPD is not
        otherwise defined. convinced that treatments of
                                                                                       data “within the framework of the resources
22. In the explanatory memorandum, the authors of “human rights”, clearly not falling
    bill explain that “[t]he adaptation of the missions covered by laws
    envisaged aims to adapt the list of stages, can justify direct access
    files already accessible to the Police and to all the databases concerned
    better supervise their access by the Police". by the provision under consideration. Therefore, the
    However, the current proposal aims to extend CNPD proposes to delete the reference to
    access rather than controlling them. In direct access for “administrative purposes
    the commentary of the articles, the authors » to the data processing carried out
    explain this extension of direct access to by other administrations to each
    “administrative purposes” by the fact that: occurrence in article 43, paragraphs
                                                                                       1st to 4 again.
        “However, the Police are also in
        charge of legal missions that do not fit 24. If the legislator were to follow the
        neither in one nor in the other category. This is the reasoning of the authors of the draft
        for example in the case of law objects, other administrations could
        found or from the Aliens Police. claim access to the targeted files
        Moreover, some members of the by this provision for "purposes
        Police need access to certain administrative functions”, in particular the management
        databases for purely "human resources" purposes. It seems
        administrative, for example, within the obvious framework that, as a general rule, such
        human resources ". direct access is disproportionate in the
                                                                                     pursuit of the said purposes and to be prohibited.
23. The CNPD first notes that access for
    “administrative purposes” seems broader 25. For the other missions of the Grand-Police
    that “the execution of missions for ducal purposes, provided for in special laws,
    other than those referred to in the paragraph should be analysed, by type of mission,
    1 and provided for by special laws", which database should be used
    referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2, letter to grant access. By way of illustration in
    a), of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to taking up the examples proposed by the



199
      In its aforementioned opinion on draft law no. 7045, the CNPD has already wondered "whether it is justified that the databases to which the
      Luxembourg has access within the framework of administrative police missions are identical to those to which it has access within the framework of
      judicial police missions”.



                                                                                           225
6 APPENDICES




        authors in the commentary of the articles, the relevant and limited to what is
        CNPD questions the need for access, necessary with regard to the purposes for
        “in the matter of lost objects”, to “which they are treated.
        file relating to the affiliations of employees,
        self-employed and employers managed by 28. On the one hand, it would be appropriate to change
        the Joint Social Security Center on the terminology used in the said
        basis of article 413 of the Safety Code paragraph to remove this confusion, and
        social” or in the “land register”. on the other hand, it is up to the person responsible for
                                                                 processing to define the accesses so
        1.2. Access control that access to information cannot be
                                                                 assigned only when the user needs
    26. Article 43, paragraph 7, provides that specific knowledge and/or making
                                                                 changes.
        “Notwithstanding the access rights provided for in
        paragraphs (1) to (4), personal data 29. The CNPD notes with interest that the authors
        staff consulted should have a propose to split the list of these bases
        direct link with the reasons for consultation. of data into two groups, allowing
        Only personal data define different access per group
        strictly necessary, in compliance with the database.
        principle of proportionality, can be
        consulted. 30. The access of the first group, according to the
                                                                 emulation of Article 43, paragraphs 1,
    27. It appears that the reference to “respect for can be attributed to “members of the Po-
        principle of proportionality" is a candidate having the status of officer or agent of
        confusion whereas, in the context of the judicial police or of an officer or agent of
        of the passage under examination, it is appropriate to administrative police”. Access to the second
        understand the limitation of access to groups, following the wording of Article 43,
        personal data in paragraphs 2 only, can be assigned to
        authorized persons with an interest
        legitimate to know them for the purposes of this "members of the Police having the quality
        processing operation (principle defined in judicial police officer or officer
        English under the term “need to know/need de police administrative […] if they are part of
        to do”). However, in general, a police entity whose missions
        said principle is also known as justify this access or appear on a list
        the principle of data minimization, approved by the Director General of Police
        that is to say that the character data after opinion of the delegate for the protection of the
        personnel must be adequate, Police data”.




                                              226
Article 43(4) further provides 31. Article 43(3) allows for the extension of
that the accesses to the first and to the second group
                                                      to “members of the civilian framework of the Police,
“members of the Police having the quality designated by name by the Minister […]
judicial police officer or officer on the proposal of the Director General of the
administrative police, namely designated Grand Ducal Police […] according to their
by the Director General of Police major- specific powers of support of a
ducale, after consulting the delegate for protection, judicial police officer or agent or a
Police data, may have administrative police officer or agent
access to the files provided for in paragraphs or for administrative purposes”. Below
(2)”. subject to comments below
                                                      concerning profiles and terms of access
The authors of the bill justify as well as its opposition to the reference
the insertion of paragraph 4 for “power for “administrative purposes”, the CNPD may
assign these same accesses to agents accommodate the extension of access to
judicial police”. First, it emerges members of the civilian framework as proposed
implicitly only access the first in this paragraph.
group is assigned, without distinction of
their concrete attributions or tasks, 32. The CNPD regrets, however, that the
to all members of the Police referred to in the provision under consideration remains silent on
paragraph 1. Thus, the authors of the project the criteria for determining the profiles and
of law explain that “all officers of the terms of access. As developed
and judicial police officers in the highest, in the opinion of the CNPD, access to
operational functions need data processing referred to in Article 43
being able to access for the fulfillment is subject to compliance with the provisions
of their ordinary missions. By combining specific laws and regulations.
paragraph 2 and paragraph 4, it would therefore be appropriate to include
no clear distinction emerges between the access limitations provided for in
the allocation of access to the second group said provisions in the criteria for
to officers and police agents, in determining the profiles and modalities
particular when the access is not linked to the access.
missions of the entity to which the member
of the Police is affected. Thus, the CNPD is 33. In the example given above con- cerning
asks whether it would not be appropriate to deny the central electronic system of
clarify paragraph 4 by specifying the search for data concerning
award conditions. payment accounts and accounts
                                                      banks identified by an IBAN number and




                                                         227
6 APPENDICES




       safe deposit boxes maintained by establishments should be formulated in this respect. First of all,
       credit facilities in Luxembourg, only the law of 1 August 2018 organizing
       “judicial police officers and CNPD officers provides that the Commission
       judicial police assigned to the National Service “monitors the application of
       judicial police, as well as officers of positions and enforcement measures and
       judicial police referred to in Article 10 of the Code ensures compliance” with the law of 1 August 2018
       of criminal procedure and approved by the relating to the processing of data in
       Director General of the Grand Ducal Criminal Police. These missions and powers
       » are authorized to have such general access include monitoring and
       direct, subject to access control considerations regarding all
       set out above relating to the processing of data referred to in
       modalities of access provided for in criminal legislation, including those referred to in the provision
       related to the different treatments. situation under review. Then, the law of August 1
                                                         2018 relating to data processing in
    34. Article 43, paragraphs 6 and 7 take up criminal matters constitutes a change
        the text of article 43 existing in the paradigm in terms of accountability
        broad outlines. The provision only provides information on controllers,
        no details on what the direct link in particular referred to in Article 3, paragraph
        between the reasons for the consultation and the 4, and article 18 of the said law. Thus, in
        data consulted means, nor of how application in particular of article 24 of
        the “strictly necessary” character and the said law, it is up to the data controller
        proportional is checked. ment to define the profiles and modalities
                                                         access and carry out regular checks.
    35. The National Commission proposes that regular logs for purposes, in particular,
        profiles and methods of access are defined in terms of “self-control [and] guarantee of the integration
        based on article 43-1, paragraph 3. of the security of personal data
                                                         staff ". In this regard, the CNPD emphasizes
    36. New Article 43, paragraph 8 is the importance of proactively carrying out
        a provision inherited from internal controls, particularly in relation to
        ment of the "article 17" authority established with the measures and procedures to
        by the amended law of August 2, 2002 relating to a place to test, analyze and evaluate
        the protection of persons with regard to regularly the effectiveness of technical measures
        processing of personal and organizational data to ensure
        sonnel, since repealed. This provision the security of processing in accordance
        requires that the CNPD “controls and monitors the in article 28 of the said law. Thus, the CNPD
        compliance with the conditions of access” as questions the added value of the paragraph
        defined in the new article 43. However, two obser- 8 under examination, whereas this type of




                                           228
control and monitoring is included in Police data be both
   its general missions and comes back in pre- detailed and binding. It is
   first place to the data controller, and strengthen the rule of law and the functioning
   asks if it would not be appropriate to mention our democratic society in
   delete this provision. offering greater legal certainty and
                                                        increased confidence in the functioning
   2. The legal basis of the files lies with law enforcement authorities.
      of the Grand Ducal Police
                                                     39. Acts, reports and minutes
37. The National Commission notes that established by officers of the Grand-Police
    the Grand Ducal Police is called upon to ducal are part of the implementation
    collect and exploit structurally and the Penal Code, the Code of Procedure
    systematically a significant criminal amount and provisions conferring
    of personal data. No missions to the Grand Ducal Police arising
    no doubt, these data processing of special laws, including the amended law
    are inherent in its repressive missions of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police,
    and are unavoidable for an authority that constitute a sufficient legal basis
    responsible for the exercise of the for the collection of personal data
    public authorities in criminal matters and personnel in the performance of these missions
    in matters of national security. essentials of the Grand Ducal Police.

38. However, the CNPD recalls that the processing 40. Nevertheless, the linking of
    of data carried out by the Police large personal data collected in
    ducale in the exercise of its missions of separate criminal proceedings or in
    Administrative Police and Judicial Police application of various missions of the
    constitute an interference in the right to the Police and their exploitation in files
    respect for privacy and the right to pro- cross-cutting generally constitutes
    data protection. The same finding may separate data processing. There
    be drawn up, in principle, for the processing most of these data processing
    of data carried out in the exercise of the subsequent ones therefore constitute a
    missions arising from special laws. It is interference in the privacy of citizens
    constant that any interference in the releases additional to the interference provided for in
    fundamental elements must be provided for by the aforementioned provisions governing and
    accessible and predictable legal provision. defining the missions of the Police.
    In view of the potential impact on the lives of
    data subjects, it is justified that the 41. In the explanatory memorandum, the authors
    provisions governing processing explain that the provisions relating to




                                                            229
6 APPENDICES




            specific files contained in Luxembourg criminal provisions
            this bill “is inspired sometimes by one, sometimes by the other
            partially from Belgian legislation, and legal order.
            in particular the law of 5 August 1992 on the
            policing function”. However, the Commission 44. Therefore, even if the Belgian legislation
            national authority notes that Belgian or French legislation can inspire the legislator,
            expressly provides for a number of it is necessary to take into account the
            regularly used databases specificities of the legal framework and institutions
            and make a clearer distinction between Luxembourg women. Thus, it is essential
            administrative police missions and that Luxembourg law satisfies
            federal police. The CNPD also notes the requirements specific to the legal order
            that Belgian legislation provides, at a minimum, Luxembourg and commitments
            the adoption and publication of “European and international directives of the Grand-
            binding” and “General Duchy of Luxembourg directives.
            binding” by the Minister(s)
            of guardianship. The CNPD also notes that 45. Thus, to comply with the requirements of
            the creation of “special files” in Article 11, paragraph 3, read in the light of
            meaning of Belgian law is subject to Article 32, paragraph 3, of the Constitution,
            the existence of “specific circumstances” of Article 8, paragraph 2, of the Convention
            and “special needs” limited to European human rights, labor and
            defined. Article 52, paragraphs 1 and 2, of the Charter of
                                                                                          EU fundamental rights
    42. The National Commission also underlines and from the case law referring to it, these
        that in France, since 2018, all data elements require in principle
        files “made available to the forces a separate legislative framework. The CNPD
        of security” is framed each time by reminding that an interference in the right to
        a legal or regulatory provision respecting privacy or in the right to
        specific200. data protection can be justified
                                                                                          provided that she:
    43. However, the CNPD also includes
        that the operation of the Police - be provided for by a law accessible to persons
        Grand Ducal State and its relationship with the parties concerned and foreseeable as to
        judicial authorities are not in all its repercussions, that is to say formulated
        identical points and are not always with sufficient precision;
        comparable to its French counterparts - is necessary in a society
        and Belgians in their democratic legal orders, subject to the principle
        respective, even if, of course, the proportionality;


    200
          French National Assembly, Information report filed pursuant to article 145 of the rules, by the law commission
          constitutions, legislation and general administration of the Republic, at the conclusion of the work of a fact-finding mission on the
          files made available to the security forces, n° 1335, 17 October 2018.
          See: https://www.assemblee-nationale.fr/dyn/15/dossiers/alt/fichiers_disposition_forces_securite_rap-info



                                                               230
- respects the essential content of the right to create a common framework applicable to "all
          Data protection ; the files of the Police within the framework of the
        - effectively responds to the legal mission objectives with which it is invested",
          of general interest or as needed, as specified by the authors of the project
          protection of the rights and freedoms of others. of law in the commentary of the articles,
                                                                                               unless legal provisions
46. However, there is a consensus that many specific parts provide for other rules.
    existing files of the Grand Police- In addition, neither the explanatory memorandum nor the
    ducale, and above all the central file, does not comment on articles include
    not benefit, to date, from provisions an exhaustive list of existing files
    specific laws or regulations that may be covered by the new
    is framed only by the single framework law, the provisions. Of course, as
    law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as the supervisory authority, the CNPD is aware
    than in terms of national security. not what data processing is
                                                                                               carried out by the Grand Ducal Police who
47. The central file is a work tool are likely to be covered by this
    essential that allows to regroup, in disposition. Additionally, the government has
    a single application, all processing provided information on said processing
    data relating to acts, reports and in the answers to questions
    minutes established in the parliamentary execution concerning the files
    judicial police and police missions implemented by the Police. For example, the
    administrative and "any other mission response dated August 2, 2019 from the Minister
    with which the Police is invested”. having homeland security in its
                                                                                               attributions to a parliamentary question
48. In this respect, the National Commission welcomes reports of 53 data processing operations
    that the bill provides for providing the separate file, some of which are framed by
    of the Grand Ducal Police from a base a specific legislative provision201.
    specific legal. It notes that the draft of said response also refers
    law provides for provisions concerning the processing of data based on
    operation of files used by international legal instruments
    the Grand Ducal Police, through and Europeans. By way of illustration, among the
      the new article 43-2, which defines the processing of data potentially
    methods of data processing covered by the provision under examination
    underlying this file. include video surveillance processing
                                                                                               “VISUPOL”202, fingerprint management
49. The National Commission also notes the “PIC application”203 and the “file
    with interest that article 43-1 new narcotic”204. It is regrettable that the


201
      See parliamentary question n° 906 of July 17, 2019 from the Honorable Deputies Laurent MOSAR and Gilles ROTH.
202
      On this subject, see draft law no. 7498 amending the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police, as well as the opinions relating thereto.
203
      Processing of images and data relating to people, see in particular answer to the question.
204
      QP 1190 Narcotics file with the Grand Ducal Police.



                                                                                                    231
6 APPENDICES




            authors have not provided, at a minimum, proof of - Amended law of 24 June 2008 having as its
            transparency concerning the files concerned subject to the control of travelers in
            to date by this provision. However, in accommodation establishments and
            accessibility and predictability concerns of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 5 August 2015
            the law, the National Commission recommends relating to the forms to be kept by the landlords
            therefore, to identify the processing of operating a hosting service
            data implemented by the Tourist Police;
            likely to be covered by the provision - Amended Grand-Ducal Regulation of 7 August
            under examination, in particular the 2015 processing authorizing the creation of a file
            of data implemented pursuant to and the processing of personal data
            specific legal provisions and, such as personnel under the system
            detailed below to regulate, where appropriate, automated control and sanction
            individual files by instruments (“CSA Processing”);
            adequate legal. - Central file, as referred to herein
                                                                                            bill through article 43-2
    50. According to article 43-1, paragraph 1, the new;
        provision applies to all files - CCTV systems
        managed by the Police, "without prejudice to "VISUPOL", when the bill
        specific legal provisions”. Without No. 7498 amending the law
        strive for completeness, the CNPD has identified as amended from July 18, 2018 on the Police
        at least the specific Grand Ducal legal provisions will have been adopted by the
        following: Chamber of Deputies.

            - Amended Grand-Ducal Regulation of 21 51. The National Commission also notes
              December 2004 authorizing the Criminal Procedure Code (CPP)
              creation of a file of persons having contains a certain number of provisions
              suffered a taxed warning in terms of specifics concerning certain treatments
              road traffic (“AT file”); data collection carried out by the Police,
            - Grand-ducal regulation of 6 May 2005 such as the “special measures
              laying down the procedures for installation and supervision”205 or the provisions
              operating alarm systems aimed at collecting fingerprints and
              linked to the National Intervention Center for photographs206.
              the police ;
            - Amended law of 25 August 2006 relating to 52. In application of European legislation
              identification procedures by and international commitments, the Police
              genetic fingerprints in Grand-Ducal criminal matters has access to and contributes to
              (“DNA File”); cross-border data processing,

    205
          These measures can be ordered by the examining magistrate and aim at the use of technical means of surveillance and control of
          all forms of communication, by means of (1) surveillance and monitoring of telecommunications and correspondence
          (2) the sound system and the fixing of images of certain places or vehicles and (3) the capture of computer data. See the
          articles 88-1 to 88-4 CPP.
    206
          See in particular articles 33, paragraph 9, and 51-2 CPP.



                                                              232
for example to the information system would require no legal provision
        Second-generation Schengen (SIS or specific regulations. Indeed, it
        II), to the processing of data put in place could be considered that certain fi-
        implemented by Europol and Interpol207 as well as "technical" files constitute a
        data processing operated by the extension of the central file when
        Center for Police Cooperation and the data covered by these files
        customs208. cannot appear, for reasons
                                                                                        techniques, in the central file. Such is
53. The draft law does not provide for the logic adopted in Article 43-2,
    legislative or regulatory provisions for paragraph 18, paragraph 2, for the conser- vation
    creation of files other than the cenvation file, after the expiry of the
    tral. However, the National Commission notes with retention provided for the active part
    regret that the project does not contain rules for the central file, "information and
    procedures for the creation of personal data files […] in
    “individuals” or requirements to use a format that cannot be managed by the
    to a legal or regulatory provision. core file". Indeed, the paragraph in ques-
    Thus, article 43-1 provides a relative framework provides for the creation of a pass-
    to particular files, but does not specify sive in the particular file concerned
    on what basis or what decision of such following the same provisions relating
    “special” files can be set to retention periods only in the
    place. It is thus left to the discretion of the passive part of the central file;
    of the Grand Ducal Police to carry out the - Individual files
    creating such a file. The CNPD does not consider • that deal with specific categories
    It does not matter that this solution satisfies the data ,
    legal requirements described above. • that are designed to perform
                                                                                           data processing operations
54. The CNPD proposes to distinguish between two “intrusives”, of the profiling type,
    special file categories: comparison and people tracking
                                                                                           physical or
        - The special files existing for com- • which require, by the nature of the
          ble technical limitations of a stored data file (such as by
          existing based on a legal provision, example of evidence and traces), of
          such as the central file or another file to keep the information for
          particular implemented by the Police. This longer shelf life.
          particular file type would register as-
          if in the terms of the processing These particular file types should
          of data from the "main" file and not be governed by a legal provision.

207
      See also, by way of illustration, the Europol Information System (EIS) and the exchange network application
      of Europol’s secure information (Secure Information Exchange Network Application, SIENA), the databases shared at the level
      of the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol).
208
      Agreement between the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Government of the Republic
      of Germany and the Government of the French Republic, concerning the establishment and operation of a joint cooperation center
      police and customs in the common border area, signed in Luxembourg on 24 October 2008 and entered into force on 1 December 2014.



                                                                                           233
6 APPENDICES




    55. It is understood that, if it is necessary to 2° support judicial investigations by the
        create a particular file in the execution bias of operational criminal analyzes
        a mission resulting from a special law at the request of a judicial authority;
        or in the implementation of a provision
        legal, this special law or provision can 3° support the definition and realization of
        constitute the legal basis and article 43-1 the internal security policy through
        to frame these files. strategic crime analysis;

       3. The purposes of the central file and 4° the use of information for purposes
          specific statistical research files;

    56. In accordance with Article 3, paragraph 5° the identification of members of the Police
        1, letter b), the personal data in charge of the file. »
        personnel must be “collected for
        specific, explicit and 57. The National Commission notes that the
        legitimate and are not processed for one purpose Mix the purposes related to the
        manner incompatible with those purposes. three task groups.
        In this regard, beyond, according to the terms of the
        authors of the project, of the general function of the 58. It appears from the bill that the data
        central file "to centralize the data can be collected and used to
        of a personal nature and information of purposes related to police cooperation
        relating to data subjects treated internationally and mutual legal assistance
        within the framework of the execution of an international mission, to reports to the authorities
        legal” as identified by article 43 – legal proceedings concerning minors, for
        2, paragraph 1, the CNPD is pleased that the reports sent to the authorities
        the draft law defines the purposes for the judiciary and the administrative authorities.
        paragraph 2: In particular with regard to missions of
                                                             administrative police and "any other
       “The personal data and mission entrusted to the Police by the
       information is processed in the law file”, it suggests that the provision under
       central for the following purposes: consideration is more detailed.

       1° the verification of the background of a 59. Article 43-1 does not define purposes for
       person in the context of a mission of "special" files. The CNPD arises
       judicial police, administrative police or the question whether these files can
       in the context of another legal mission to pursue purposes different from those of the
       the police ; core file. She refers to her proposal




                                           234
concerning the distinction to be made between files paragraph 2, with regard to the files
    individuals. The purposes of “tech-private” files that do not have a party
    nics” would be identical to the purposes of the active, that access must be limited
    "main" file to which these files are in the same way for the intended purposes more
    report. The legal provisions speci- fied above, while expressing its reservations as to
    operators will have to define the purposes of others in the absence of such a passive party.
    files. For example, a particular file
    bind having the function of comparing 4. The data processed in
    new evidence and traces in relation to the particular files and
    content of an existing database in the central file
    pursues goals that go beyond the goals
    62. In accordance with article 5 of the law of
    carry out processing operations of August 1, 2018 relating to the processing of
    specific data for comparison and data in criminal matters, Article 43-2,
    semi-automated research. According to paragraphs 3 and 4, defines the categories of
    CNPD, it would be preferable that the purposes of the persons whose data are processed
    this type of file (especially files from the perspective of the three categories of missions
    "biometric", targeting fingerprints entrusted to the Police and defines which
    digital, genetic and recognition categories of persons seized for purposes
    facial) are supervised by a judicial police system can also
    legal tion. be consulted in the exercise of other
                                                           assignments. Thus, under article 43-
60. The CNPD can agree with the two purposes 2, paragraph 5, data relating
    that may justify access to data to victims, witnesses or
    contained in the passive part of the file persons concerned by data
    central and passive part of "soft" files cannot be viewed
    individuals, reserved for data relating to administrative police purposes and
    judicial police missions, such as other legal missions of the Police.
    defined in article 43-2, paragraph 19 indent In the performance of police duties
    1st. She notes that such data may administrative, "soft" data not
    also be retransmitted are not accessible. The CNPD welcomes
    in the active part of the file concerned favorably only access to data
    in the cases referred to in article 43-2, of certain categories of persons either
    paragraph 16. limited to judicial police missions and does not
                                                           can therefore not be consulted at
61. The National Commission considers that, for the purposes of administrative police missions
    the case referred to in article 43-2, paragraph 18, or the other legal missions of the




                                                              235
6 APPENDICES




        Police. The National Commission may make decisions concerning sexual life or orientation.
        general subscribe to the proposed solution
        to the aforesaid paragraphs 3 to 5. Nevertheless, are authorized only in case of ne-
        the categories of data defined in absolute cessity, subject to guarantees
        European instruments, in particular appropriate for the rights and freedoms of the
        with regard to SIS II and Europol, the data subject may, and only:
        be taken into consideration to refine the
        definitions of the said categories at level a) when authorized by the law of
        national, for the sake of transparency and the European Union or in application of
        of consistency. this Act or another provision
                                                                 Luxembourg law;
    63. It seems that the particular files (b) to protect the vital interests of the
        may contain the same categories of data subject or another
        data and make the same natural person distinctions, or
        in terms of data subjects. However, c) when the processing relates to data
        should determine these obviously made public distinctions
        in the legal instrument used as the basis by the data subject. »
        legal for these files.
                                                          65. It seems that in particular the files des-
        4.1. Special categories of documents intended to contain traces and evidence
             data can target additional categories
                                                              data categories, including categories
    64. Article 9 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to specific data. The Commission
        to data processing in national matters notes that, with regard to the
        criminal law relating to the processing of data from the central file, the "unaltered bodily signs
        special categories of data, foreseeable allowing the person to be identified,
        that: including photographs and, where appropriate,
                                                              the fingerprints” referred to in
        “The processing of data of a character ticle 43-2, paragraph 7, subparagraph 2, number 10,
        personnel who reveal racial origin or may, depending on the trafficking operations,
        ethnicity, political opinions, convictions of the data carried out, raise
        religious or philosophical information, or biometric data.
        union membership, and the treatment
        genetic data, data 66. The CNPD notes with interest that Article 43-1,
        biometrics for the purpose of identifying a per- paragraph 2, allows the Police to process
        unique physical rings, special categories of data and
        data concerning health or donations- requires that, on the one hand, these data have




                                           236
“always a relationship with other data 69. In the commentary to the articles, the
    relating to the data subject" and that the authors consider that "the Police must be
    on the other hand, these data are “pertinent able to exploit this type of data to
    nent and essential” for: statistical purposes, in which case the data
                                                            in question are anonymized. However, from
    1. “with the help of the identification of a per- when a re-identification of the person
       rings”; concerned remains possible, it is rather
    2. “to understand the described context of data pseudonymization. He
       in an established report or minutes would be preferable to include the establishment
       by the police " ; of statistics in the definition of
    3. "to correctly assess the facts and purposes, specifying that this operation
       which may give rise to a data processing offense should
       penal or a police measure based solely on data
       administrative within the meaning of section 1 pseudonyms.
       of Chapter 2 of this Law or under
       of another mission where there are 70 police. The CNPD would like to point out that three files
       invested by law”. existing ones are structurally concerned
                                                            by this provision, namely the file
67. The CNPD notes positively that such a “PIC” (i.e. including photos
    legal basis is created within the meaning of the article of persons for identification purposes), the
    9, letter a), of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018 file relating to fingerprints and the
    and understands that this applies DNA file.
    regardless of specific files and the CNPD suggests legislating in this
    to the central file. place to include a solid legal basis
                                                            accompanied by appropriate safeguards for
68. Nevertheless, she wonders about the possibility, photo processing (currently:
    as sketched in the comment as fingerprints: Code of
    articles, to carry out research criminal procedure, article 33, paragraph
    on this type of data. She suggests 9 and Article 45) using techniques
    provide additional guarantees for facial identification, more and more
    control this type of research. In addition, widespread and efficient, that is to say
    she wonders if it would not be appropriate to “biometric data for the purposes of
    provide for the possibility of concealing this type of identification of a natural person of
    data, i.e. to pseudonymize uniquely”. Among the guarantees
    these data, during research on the appropriate framework governing such use of
    data subject for purposes other than biometric identification techniques,
    judicial police missions. a limitation of use for the purposes of




                                                               237
6 APPENDICES




        judicial police in the context of misdemeanors and "gentle" relating to three categories of
        crimes could be considered. people :

    71. While the processing of general data - “the persons in respect of whom it
        ticks already benefit from an enca- there are serious reasons to believe that they
        specifically legislative through the law are about to commit a
        of 25 August 2006 relating to criminal offences”;
        genetic evidence in criminal matters, the - “contacts or associates who are
        CNPD wonders if it would not be opposed to intending to participate
        tun to also provide a legal basis for these offenses or to be aware of them.
        general for fingerprints, including sance”;
        treatment is currently already planned - "people who can provide
        by the provisions of the Code of Procedure information on these criminal offences”.
        criminal (Article 33, paragraph 9, Article 45),
        allowing at the same time to communicate 74. The registration of this type of data in the
        correct any weaknesses in said central file law, which the authors define
        modified from August 25, 2006. in the commentary of the articles as
                                                              data "which cannot yet
    72. The CNPD considers that it should be linked to a criminal offense
        strengthen the appropriate safeguards, by sufficiently qualified so that the article
        example by taking more inspiration from 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
        Belgian law, in particular article 44/2, becomes applicable", is particularly
        paragraph 2. On the one hand, this provision framed in the bill under
        further frames the purposes for consideration.
        which this type of data can be
        and on the other hand provides for rules 75. Firstly, the CNPD notes positively that
        strict in terms of their use, only a limited number of agents can
        their access and security rules enter this type of information, in accordance with
        to be put in place by the in article 43-2, paragraph 4, subparagraph 2, to
        data controller. namely "judicial police officers
                                                              of the Judicial Police Service in the
        4.2. The so-called "soft" material data which falls within the remit of the
                                                              section to which they are assigned.
    73. Article 43-2, paragraph 4, point 10°,
        allows the Grand Ducal Police of 76. Next, the CNPD notes with interest that the ins-
        processing, in the central file and for purposes of writing in the central file is subject to
        of the judicial police, data said to be given to what "the reliability of the source




                                           238
and information is evaluated according to an 80. The CNPD can subscribe to the solution
        evaluation code previously defined which is retained in paragraph 2, namely that a
        takes into account the relevance of the research source to a data subject
        and information provided in the context by an agent not assigned to the Service of
        of the evolution of crime and phe- Judicial police does not give him access
        relevant criminal nomena”. None- to information, but results in a
        less, in this regard, the CNPD regrets that the "warning to the officers of the
        bill and commentary on the articles of the judicial police in charge of information”,
        remain silent on the “evaluation code, leaving it to them to “evaluate the usefulness of
        previously defined. It would be possible to contact the consultant agent”.
        draw inspiration from the evaluation grid provided
        in Article 29 of Regulation (EU) 2016/794 81. Finally, paragraph 4 sets out, for
        relating to the European Union Agency "agents in charge of information",
        for the cooperation of law enforcement authorities the possibility of making accessible the
        (Europol)209 relating to the assessment of the reliability of soft data relating to “persons
        the source and accuracy of information for which there are grounds
        tions. serious to believe that they are on
                                                                                 about to commit an offense
77. Finally, the CNPD can subscribe to “criminal” according to the same rules
    the guarantee protecting the interests of the only applicable to the data relating
    minors in that the registration of data to "persons suspected of having
    relating to minors depends on participating in a criminal offence”. But then
    “the agreement of the State Attorney General or that the commentary on the articles remains
    of the member of its public prosecutor's office appointed to this mute on this point, the CNPD wonders
    effect ". on the criteria that can justify such
                                                                                 access and wonders whether “direct access”
78. Regarding access, the rules include access for police purposes
    derive from article 43-2, paragraph 5, administrative or for the purposes of other
    paragraphs 2 to 4. missions of the Police.

79. Under paragraph 3, “officers and 82. Data retention periods
    judicial police officers of the Soft Service have been adapted to their specificity,
    judicial police” have access to the data by limiting the retention period
    soft for research purposes in the active part at one year, which can be
    judicial police and that this access can be renewed for an additional year,
    be limited to "one or more sections of the and 3 years in the passive part of the file
    Judicial police service”. central.



209
      Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the European Union Agency for the Cooperation of
      law enforcement authorities (Europol) and replacing and repealing Council Decisions 2009/371/JHA, 2009/934/JHA, 2009/935/JHA, 2009/936/JHA and
      2009/968/JHA, Official Journal of the European Union, L 135, 24 May 2016, p. 53–114.



                                                                                      239
6 APPENDICES




    83. Thus, on the whole, the CNPD welcomes “members of the ‘protection of
        favorably the solution proposed for the youth’ within the Police Service
        so-called “soft”, judicial” data processing and, as described by the authors
        necessary for the accomplishment of the project, "police officers and agents
        tasks related to prevention and judicial detection who are actually responsible
        of criminal offenses while taking part in an investigation in relation to the minor
        account only at the time of the collection of the data subject”.
        information, no criminal offense
        has yet been committed by person 5. Controlling access to files
        concerned. It considers that the balance in individuals and in the central file
        between operational requirements for the purposes of
        judicial police missions and the rights of 85. Access to the active part of the central file
        data subjects is satisfactory to is framed by four levels of access which
        regard to the principle of proportionality. result from article 43-2, paragraph 7:

        4.3. Data relating to minors - Determining whether a person is included in the
                                                               central file;
    84. Recital 50 of Directive 2016/680 - Viewing of information and data on
        provides that "the actions taken by the main personal character (defined
        controller should in Article 43-2, paragraph 7, subparagraph 2)
        understand recovery and recovery relating to the person;
        implementation of specific safeguards intended - Viewing of a summary summary
        to the processing of data relating to the facts in which the person is
        personnel relating to the people involved;
        vulnerable physical persons, such as - Access to minutes and reports
        children ". In its opinion on the file of which the person is the subject.
        central, the National Commission had estimated
        that “[t]he processing implemented by the 86. These accesses are granted “[in] the
        Police through said file must also comply with the access rules determined in
        confer a particular degree of protection under Article 43-1, paragraph (3)” and
        with regard to natural persons according to “the reasons for the consultation”.
        minors”. In this regard, she is pleased that,
        as it follows from Article 43-1, paragraph 87. Article 43-2, paragraph 7, allows
        3, digit 6, access to data relating also to grant these access rights
        to minors is part of the criteria for “named civilian personnel
        define the access rights and that access is designated by the data controller
        this data is in principle reserved for ment”. Unlike the changes




                                           240
introduced in the new article 43, the CNPD 91. It takes due note of the access granted
   points out that this provision does not restrict judicial police officers from
   not explicitly this access “according to the Customs and Excise Administration
   of their specific “namely designated” support attributions and the Inspector
   from an officer or agent of the judicial police or general of the Police, to the Inspector General
   of an administrative police officer or constable of the Police and to members of the
   tive”. police officer of the General Inspectorate
                                                         of the Police, in accordance with article 43-
88. It follows from Article 43-2, paragraph 5, 2, paragraph 6. Article 5 of the draft
    general limitations on laws removes direct access to the Service from
    consultations for a reason, on the one hand, of information (SRE) to "the 'research' part
    administrative police and for other purposes of the personal data bank
    legal missions, and on the other hand, general police policing” on the grounds, according to the
    strangers. In addition, access to article commentary data, whether
    "sweets" is also boxed. of a “data bank that the present
                                                         bill seeks to remove”. The CNPD is
89. It emerges from the commentary to the articles asking whether the SRE will have access, through another
    relating to Article 43-2, paragraph 7, that the means, to the data of the central file to be
    “viewing information and data created under this law, and, in the
    of a personal nature” is negative, what reasoning was followed to
    granted to "field agents". The does not provide such access.
    CNPD takes note that, according to
    the commentary to the articles, “detail 92. In the absence of legal provisions
    minutes and reports including specific, access to specific files
    person has been the subject are accessible is determined by article 43-1, paragraph
    only on the basis of access rights and 3. The National Commission is pleased that
    reasons for the consultation, which are this provision details, for the file
    stricter than those for central access and individual files, the
    main information. “profiles and methods of access and
                                                         personal data processing
90. While Article 43-2, paragraph 7, “personal” and appears, on the whole,
    paragraph 1, in fine, only conditions satisfaction of these criteria based, according to
    access to the minutes and reports to the comments on the articles, on “the
    “reasons for the consultation”, the Commission principles of need to know and need
    national regrets that the bill and the to do "and" allocated according to
    comments of the articles remain silent on the actual employment occupied by the member of the
    these reasons for the consultation. Police ". Access to data relating to




                                                            241
6 APPENDICES




        to minors are subject to the conditions already mentioned above, article 24 of the law
        special access. However, it regrets from August 1, 2018 relating to the processing
        that access to special categories of data in criminal matters requires the
        data is not otherwise framed. controller to define the
                                                             profiles and methods of access and proceed to
    93. In its opinion on the central file, the regular checks of the logs to be
        National Commission had noted that the purposes, in particular of “self-monitoring [and]
        “[a]ccording to information from the Police, to guarantee the integrity and security
        access to the central file is granted of personal data”. It
        automatically to each new agent or officer appears that the data controller
        of the judicial police, given that it is supposed to carry out reviews of
        may be required to work with this regular and proactive logists, in particular
        tool”, which means in practice that “one related to the measures and procedures
        total of 1,840 people had the tools to put in place to test, analyze
        necessary logical accesses in order to be able to and regularly evaluate the effectiveness of
        use the system to perform technical and organizational measurements
        research respectively consult to ensure the safety of the treatment
        records”. However, it had concluded that “access in accordance with article 28 of the said law.
        permanent in the central file for almost
        2,000 police officers, even in the absence of 95. Article 24, paragraph 1, of the law of
        case of proven abuse, compared to the actual August 1, 2018 relating to the processing of
        need for consultation on the ground, must data in criminal matters provides
        be considered inadequate. Even
        in the absence of a thorough overhaul “Logs are established at least for
        of the access mechanism, the CNPD considers the following processing operations in
        that the Police could and should have implemented automated processing systems: the
        measures such as setting up collection, modification, consultation,
        log reviews to detect possible communication, including transfers,
        questionable access to mitigate the risk of abuse interconnection and erasure. THE
        and ensure the protection of the data of the logs of the consultation operations
        citizens ". and communication make it possible to establish
                                                             the reason, date and time of these
    94. Therefore, it will expect that the criteria and the identification of the person who has
        defined in article 43-1, paragraph 3, results consulted or communicated the data to
        in practice in a review of personal character rights, as well as the identity of
        of access, accompanied by the establishment of the recipients of these personal data
        regular log reviews. As personal. »




                                            242
96. It unquestionably follows from the articles no one other than the one who carries it out, the
    18 and 28 of the law of August 1, 2018 relating to the logs of the file mention the identity
    to the processing of data concerning the person making the request and
    penal that the review of the logues makes of the reason for this request. »
    also part of the security measures
    to be implemented by the manager 99. Article 43-1, paragraph 3, point 4°,
    treatment. It also follows from provides that the
    Article 28 that it is appropriate to adopt the
    “technical and organizational measures “Police determines the profiles and moda-
    appropriate in order to guarantee a level of access and data processing facilities at
    security adapted to the risk, in particular in personal character on the basis […] of the mod-
    with regard to the processing relating to the access file. If the reason for access does not derive
    special categories of data not indisputably the assignment of
    of a personal nature” and therefore, when the agent within a service or unit
    it is relevant, to take into account the Police, the reason for access must indicate the
    the nature of the data, in particular the precise reason for the consultation. The police
    particular categories of data, determines specific access grounds
    data relating to minors and according to the type of legal mission of the Police
    "soft" data, in the definition of data in the context of which a processing of
    regular log reviews. data is required.

97. In the notice relating to the central file, the CNPD 100. The CNPD understands that the authors
    had also noted that of the bill suggest that the motive
                                                               from a consultation could result
    "since the current practice consists in this" incontestably of the assignment of
    that police officers in the field do not access the officer within a service or unit
    not directly to the file, but rather make it to the Police”. Commentary on articles
    call for police officers at the RIFO level, does not elaborate on how the information of
    the identification of the person who ultimately has the assignment of an agent could give
    consulted the system cannot be traced enough contextual information
    in a systematic manner with efforts to trace the legality of the said
    reasonable. » consultation. The only identification of
                                                               the agent, including with his assignment,
98. In this regard, it is to be welcomed that the clarification would make an audit of logs
    brought by article 43-1, paragraph 3, tedious and not very effective given
    paragraph 2, that “[in] the case of a request that it should include an investigation at the
    consultation of a file on a case-by-case basis to trace the context of




                                                                243
6 APPENDICES




         consultation. The effectiveness of the control must make it possible to trace with
         ex-post logging would be sufficient precision of the reason for accessing the
         greatly reduced. Therefore, without data to ensure, in the context
         further explanations from the authors of the spot and periodic checks on
         of the text, the CNPD cannot subscribe to the legitimacy of the accesses.
         to such a solution. The CNPD considers that
         the current wording of this passage is 103. Regarding access to the passive part of the
         contrary to article 24 of the law of 1 August central file, the National Commission
         2018 relating to data processing notes with interest that, on the one hand, a
         in criminal matters. ad hoc access may be granted, in
                                                               application of article 43-2, paragraph 19,
    101. The CNPD considers it necessary to modify paragraph 2, or time-limited access
         aforementioned passage, by requiring to indicate, which can be granted by name
         for each consultation, a reason to police officers and agents
         access. At the same time, it welcomes that the judicial police service
         the provision under consideration provides for or subdivisions of the police service
         that the Police further determines judicially, in paragraph 3.
         “specific access grounds according to the
         type of legal mission” as well as, in 104. The CNPD welcomes the
         situations not covered by these retention periods of the logs of
         reasons for access, a “precise reason for logging provided for in the aforementioned article 24,
         consultation” must be indicated. However, fixed at five years in Article 43, paragraph
         the authors of the bill omitted from 5, except when they are the subject of a
         give indications, at least in the control procedure.
         commentary on the articles, on the "reasons
         specific access points” envisaged. The CNPD 105. In the notice relating to the central file, it
         points out that a simple reference to a had found that
         consultation for judicial police purposes,
         for administrative policing purposes or “the logging mechanisms do not
         purposes of other legal tasks would not achieve in practice
         obviously not enough. all of the purposes as stated
                                                               in the law. Thus, the verification of the legality
    102. The reason for access could, for example, if each consultation seems difficult
         based on survey identifiers, based on contextual information
         police operations and limited decisions that are recorded in the log (i.
         legal authorities justifying the access. The e. only a summary generic motivation
         CNPD recalls that the said reasons for access are included in the newspaper). »




                                           244
106. The CNPD regrets that the bill respecting these deadlines which determine
     does not specify the aforementioned article 24, in the persons intervening in the name and for
     providing the content of the adapted logs account of the controller
     to the files of the Grand Ducal Police, in this procedure, including the
     particular relating to the reasons for consultation. data protection officer,
                                                            as well as the deadlines within which these
107. She wonders if it would not be appropriate for people to perform their tasks
     to define the access criteria and the respective ones. Procedural rules
     manner logging criteria are made available to the person
     transversal, for access to the banks concerned in accordance with Article 11 and
     of data referred to in Article 43, for the to the competent supervisory authority on
     specific files referred to in Article 43-1 and request thereof. »
     for the central file referred to in Article 43-2.
                                                       110. In its opinion on the central file, the
108. Thus, it would be necessary to harmonize the CNPD has already considered that the provision
     logging provisions cited above did not properly reflect
     concerning the files of the Police with article 5 of the directive that it is supposed
     the methods of controlling the logues to de-transpose:
     flowing from Article 43, paragraphs 6 to 8.
                                                            “In its opinion of 28 December 2017
     6. Retention periods relating to the bill (no. 7168) of
                                                            transposition of the directive, the CNPD
109. Article 4 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to it considered that article 5 of the directive
     to data processing in matters was not correctly transposed
     criminal law sets the minimum rules in national law. The legislator has no
     retention and examination periods: however, the argument of the
                                                            CNPD. »
     “(1) The controller shall set the
     appropriate deadlines for the erasure of 111. It had also noted that “the deadlines
     personal data or for conservation or at least the criteria
     regular verification of the applicable necessity to determine the duration of
     to keep the data of a conservation nature as well as the procedures
     staff. The deadlines are to be fixed in view of allowing the regular verification of
     to the purpose of the processing. the need for the said deadlines would deserve
                                                            to be clarified by the legislator in order to
     (2) The data controller establishes to limit as much as possible the margin of
     procedural rules to ensure maneuverability of the controller




                                                              245
6 APPENDICES




         and guarantee transparency, accessibility 115. Firstly, the CNPD wonders about the
         and the proportionality of the said deadlines”. definition of "any other mission whose
                                                             Police is vested with the law” and wishes
    112. The CNPD welcomes the fact that article 43 - obtaining more information about
         2, paragraphs 9 to 18, contains tasks which would not come under the
         detailed provisions on the duration of missions of the administrative police, nor
         conservation applicable to the data of the missions of the judicial police. Of
         contained in the active part and the plus part, it is clear that, in
         passive from the central file. the provision under consideration and in
                                                             the commentary of the related articles,
         6.1. Data contained in the part different concepts are used, "mission
              active in the central file with which the Police are invested by law",
                                                             “administrative duties”. He is
    113. The data contained in the part referred to the previous developments
         of the central file are defined in relating to the new article 43 and the
         Article 43-2, paragraph 7, as well as the notion of “administrative purposes”.
         implicitly, any information contained
         in the minutes and reports 116. Article 43-2, paragraph 15 provides that
         saved therein in accordance with “[t]he information and data to be
         in paragraph 1, including categories of personal character […] in the context of
         specific data of an administrative police mission
         personnel within the limits of article 43-1, or within the framework of a mission
         paragraph 2. Access to data is subject to which the Police are vested by law,
         differentiated according to the defined purposes are deleted at the latest after a
         in paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 43- period of ten years after their registration-
         2, the access rules defined in particular in the central file […]”. The CNPD
         by paragraphs 5, 9 and 10 of the article welcomes that the data
         43-1 and the profiles and methods of access are in principle deleted after
         defined by the Police within the meaning of the article the expiry of the said period.
         43-1, paragraph 3.
                                                        117. However, without knowing the “missions
    114. Article 43-2 provides for six sub-categories: administrative”, it is difficult to identify
                                                             decide on the adequacy of this period
         6.1.1. The data entered under 10 years. The CNPD recalls that it is not
                of administrative police missions not sufficient to invoke “a concern for
                and any other mission including the simplification […] which avoids providing
                Police are vested by law with several extension exceptions,”




                                           246
as shown in the commentary to 6.1.2. Data relating to minors
articles, to justify a delay of
unified conservation which is moreover ten 118. Article 43-2, paragraph 15, subparagraph 2,
years. The commentary to the articles remains that the "information and data
silent as to any personal arrangements contained in the
provided for within this maximum period and in a central file relating to persons
understands that the perpetrators are considering minor runaways to be erased from the file
in principle the central standardized application when the person has reached the age
of this deadline. However, the CNPD is wondering about the age of eighteen. The CNPD can subscribe to
proportionality of the 10-year period for the chosen solution.
non-police duties
administration. She can nevertheless 119. However, she wonders about the proportion
conceive that, as proposed in the tionality and the need to apply the du-
provision under review, the Policy sets retention rules common to data
itself the retention periods relating to minors other than those
for administrative police missions relating to minors in
and missions arising from runaway laws, in particular with regard to the requirements
special, within the time limits of the amended law of 10 August 1992 relating to
maximum that the provision provides, in the protection of youth as well as of
indicating in fine “[t]he Police can stop the reform initiated in this area.
shorter retention periods
by type of report within the meaning of this 6.1.3. The data relating to
paragraph, in which case it shall hold a request for mutual legal assistance
statement in which the specific international deadlines
are indicated”. The Commission
120. On the basis of article 43-2, paragraph
specific legal provisions can 14, paragraph 1, the documents drafted
provide retention periods within the framework of its police missions
different that should be respected, judicial in the context of a request
as is the case for example of mutual aid are kept for 20 years
in article 25 the amended law of 22 in the active part.
February 2018 relating to the exchange of
personal data and 121. While the retention period in the
police information. In active part of the central file does not seem
in any event, the restriction of access not excessive, the CNPD nevertheless suggests
can reduce the risk for people to attach these types of documents to rules
concerned. specific access.




                                                      247
6 APPENDICES




              6.1.4. Data relating to the investigation to which they relate”. There
                     CNPD police cooperation can support this solution.
                     international or "reports
                     to the judicial authorities who 6.1.6. The data entered under
                     do not have the purpose of judicial police missions
                     observation of an offense
                     penal” which “does not concern 124. Article 43-2, paragraph 8, provides that
                     not an ongoing investigation or “[p]ersonal data and
                     a specific offence” the information provided for in paragraphs
                                                                                    (3) and (4) are transmitted to the file
    122. Article 43-2, paragraph 14, subparagraph 2, central if the investigation is finished, or if
         refers to article 43-2, paragraph 15, the competent judicial authority has authorized
         paragraph 1 for this type of data. Transmission according to law
         CNPD refers to the more amended developments of 22 February 2018 relating
         high concerning the adequacy of the time limit for the exchange of personal data
         maximum retention period of 10 years, in terms of personnel and information
         emphasizing that police should be taken as equals”. In the commentary of
         ment into account the obligations arising from articles, the authors explain that this
         of international commitments in my paragraph “determines when
         international police cooperation to which the data can be
         nal in determining the durations of listed in the central file” and
         storage of said data210. justify that “[a]t the registration
                                                                                    of a minute or report in
              6.1.5. Data relating to cooperation the central file, information and
                     international police or data becomes accessible to
                     “reports to the judicial authorities all the officers and agents of
                     which do not have as their object the judicial police of the Police which have
                     finding of an infringement of a right of access under Article
                     penal” which concern a 43-1, paragraph 3. However, this information
                     ongoing investigation or breach and data may be covered by
                     determined the secrecy of the investigation or even the secrecy of
                                                                                    instruction. ".
    123. Article 43-2, paragraph 14, second paragraph,
         provides that for this type of data, 125. The CNPD wonders how the
         the retention period aligns with data is retained pending
         that applicable to “reports the transmission to the central file. So,
         or reports drawn up within the framework of pending the end of the investigation or


    210
          See for example, article 4, paragraph 4, first paragraph of the agreement between the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Government
          of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Government of the French Republic, concerning
          the establishment and operation of a common police and customs cooperation center in the common border area, signed in
          Luxemburg, 24 October 2008.



                                                          248
the decision of the judicial authorities, question if this solution could not
     the minutes or the report is not to be transposed to the data relating
     retained by the author of said document, to ongoing investigations. Management
     without it being really possible access would allow, in the opinion of the
     to check the security and CNPD conditions, to respect the secrecy of the investigation
     access. In particular, during investigations and the secrecy of the instruction. If the system
     which last longer, it arises the did not allow to restrict access
     question of the modalities of conservation by name to certain officers,
     of said documents, in particular if the data controller would be
     exists a kind of "temporary file" facing difficulties to put
     at the level of each police officer implement the provisions relating to
     judiciary responsible for an investigation through access to “soft” data and
     the public prosecutor or by a judge data relating to minors.
     instruction.
                                                       127. The CNPD notes with interest that article
126. To justify this discrepancy in 43-1, paragraphs 9 to 13, contains
     transfer of the document to the file criteria that trigger the transfer
     central, the authors of the data bill from the active part to the
     seem to implicitly indicate that passive part of the central file and that
     access cannot be restricted to specific rules have been provided
     only officers and police officers for data relating to
     judiciary in charge of the investigation. contraventions under section
     However, in the same provision under 43-1, paragraph 17.
     examination, in accordance with article 43-2,
     paragraph 5, paragraphs 2 and 3, provision is made for 128. She welcomes the mention of the decisions
     that the central file makes it possible to limit condemnation, acquittal,
     access to “soft” data “for dismissals or dismissals without follow-up
     judicial police officers in charge in the central file, as planned
     some information ". Furthermore, the article by article 43-2, paragraph 12. This
     43-1, paragraph 3, number 6°, provides for registration greatly contributes to
     also that access to the data the accuracy of the data contained
     relating to minors must be authorized in the central file. She suggests to
     be limited to the staff of certain companies also provide that mention is made
     police officers or agents. It would seem rehabilitation, especially in
     that the system will have to allow the files concerning several people
     restrict access by name to physical stored in the part
     some officers, and he then arises the active.




                                                             249
6 APPENDICES




             6.1.6.1. In the absence of a decision 130. Thus, in the absence of a decision
                      of justice, including in legal cases, the data is transmitted
                      dismissal decisions, in the passive part of the central file
                      classification decision when the file is the subject of a
                      without follow-up and decision of "archiving" in the "processing, says
                      classification "ad acta" criminal chain, of the public prosecutor's office,
                                                             i.e. a reduction in accessibility
    129. The CNPD welcomes the entry of data relating to the file. Of the
         place of the automated return between the base then, given that the current delay of
         of data from the judicial authorities and this measure is set at 3 years, this period
         of the central file through the article also applies to the data
         43-2, paragraph 11. Indeed, it is contained in the central file. The CNPD
         of a recommendation contained in note that discussions have begun
         its opinion on the central file. One to increase this period to 5 years.
         part, technically, this automated return
         now seems to be working, and 131. The CNPD nevertheless wonders about the
         on the other hand, the authors of the bill rules applicable in the event of absence of
         retained it to trigger the automated return transfer from the authorities
         to the passive part of the central file. judicial. She recommends planning
         According to the authors, “[t]he paragraph 11 is a fallback solution when the return
         targets non-suit decisions, automated does not work.
         rankings without follow-up, as well as the
         cases in which the author remained 132. It should also be noted that this measure
         unknown or prescribed business which is reversible as soon as the file is
         are put ‘ad acta’ and for which the object of “[a] retransmission in the
         no decision has been made." Finally, the active part of the processing, known as chain
         the CNPD wonders about the criminal treatment, of the public prosecutor's office gives rise to
         identical from different decisions. a retransmission in the active part
         However, it considers that, on the one hand, from the central file. » in accordance with
         this question can be resolved in article 43-2, paragraph 16, subparagraph 2.
         level of "JUCHA" and that he returns
         also to the State prosecutor of 6.1.6.2. In the event of a decision to
         take the necessary measures sentence casting
         in accordance with article 43-2, paragraph in force of res judicata
         13. It can therefore be satisfied with the
         solution retained in provision under 133. The CNPD can fully subscribe to the
         consideration. solution adopted in article 43-2, paragraph




                                          250
9, in the presence of a conviction 134. Article 43-2, paragraph 10, provides
casting as res judicata, in that, a transmission in the passive part
in the words of the authors of the central file project “as soon as the Police are
of law, “the retention period of informed of the acquittal decision,
information and data in the file unless the State Prosecutor orders their
Central Police is linked to the duration of maintenance”. The authors of the bill
in which the conviction appears refer to French legislation,
in the record of the person concerned". in particular to article 230-8 of the Code
Thus, during rehabilitation, the French criminal procedure data. However, at the
are transmitted in the passive part difference of said article 230-8, the solution
from the central file. The CNPD wonders that the default retained by the authors is not
what treatment is reserved for decisions not the deletion of data, but
for the suspension of the pronouncement of only the transfer in the part
conviction and passive orders from the central file. Likewise, the
criminal. French legislation further regulates the
                                                     decision of the public prosecutor to maintain
It also understands that, on the basis of data relating to persons
of article 43-2, paragraph 9, subparagraph 2, paid in the file of antecedents
“when the rehabilitation does not concern the judicial police. The CNPD considers
not all people sentenced, necessary that the rights of people
the information and data are acknowledged are better taken into account,
maintained in part active until the in particular from the point of view of the right to
rehabilitation of all persons information and purpose limitation.
convicted in a case
determined” since the data is 135. She can follow the solution chosen at
relate to documents relating to Article 43-2, paragraph 10, subparagraph 2, in
criminal prosecution. It can be satisfied with the limitation of the search for the
of the fact that “the rehabilitated person is an acquitted person” [if the acquittal
in the case in question can no longer be does not concern all persons
sought in the active part "all involved in the criminal prosecution"
as the solution adopted for the and in paragraph 3 concerning the victims and
victims and witnesses in article 43-2, witnesses.
paragraph 9, paragraph 3.
                                                         6.1.6.4. Tickets
    6.1.6.3. In case of decision
             of acquittal cast in 136. According to article 43-2, paragraph 1, subparagraph
             force of res judicata 3, "The central file does not include the




                                                       251
6 APPENDICES




         data relating to persons who 6.1.6.5. So-called “soft” data
         have committed an offense if a law
         139. The CNPD can be satisfied with the durations
         penalties by payment of a proposed warning relating to the data of
         taxed and that the person concerned is “persons in respect of whom there is
         acquitted of the tax warning in the serious grounds to believe that they are
         period provided for by law”. According to perpetrators about to commit an offense
         of the bill, this provision is intended by criminal, as well as contacts or associates
         example the “taxed warnings to who are suspected of intending to
         meaning of article 15 of the amended law of 14 to participate in these offenses or to have
         February 1955 concerning knowledge regulations, as well as people who
         of traffic on all lanes can provide information on these
         public”. In the event of "non-payment of criminal offences" as defined in
         within the legal deadlines, a report Article 43-2, paragraph 4, point 10°. So,
         must however be drawn up, which is in accordance with article 43-2, paragraph
         will find in the central file". 14, paragraph 3, the data is "transferred
                                                              in the passive part one year after their
    137. According to article 43-2, paragraph 17, recording in the active part of the
         paragraph 3, “information and data in a central file. This period may be extended
         personal character contained in the of an additional year on decision
         central file, which have their origin in reasoned […]”. Likewise, these data "are
         minutes or reports for deleted three years after their transfer
         contraventions addressed to the authorities in the passive part” in accordance with
         judicial proceedings, article 43-2, paragraph 17, subparagraph 2 is abolished for five years.
         after the establishment of the report or
         of the report”. The CNPD understands that this 140. The CNPD nevertheless wonders about the fate
         period applies both to the active part of the data of "persons to whom
         central file and for the passive part of there are serious reasons to believe
         this, in particular when the file has been that they are about to commit
         transmitted to the passive party pursuant to a criminal offence” for which
         of article 43-2, paragraphs 11 or 13. access has been modified in accordance with
                                                              Article 43-2, paragraph 5, paragraph 4.
    138. She can subscribe to these two passages
         of the text under consideration for 6.1.6.6. Decisions on
         taxed warnings paid on the basis of processing limitations
         of a special law on the one hand and for the or the transfer to the part
         other violations on the other hand. central file passive




                                           252
141. The National Commission welcomes the 6.2. Data contained in
     tion of article 43-2, paragraph 13, which the passive part of the central file
     gives the possibility to the State prosecutor (judicial police)
     “ex officio or at the request of the person
     concerned”, to order the transfer of 142. In the current state, the data in the file
     data relevant to the current central police mission are kept for a
     in the passive part of the file duration of 60 years from the registration
     central or to limit the possibilities of ment of these.
     search for the person concerned
     the active part. It points positively to 143. Article 43-2, paragraph 17, first paragraph,
     that these decisions be notified to the establishes a general period of 30 years from
     person concerned and can be stored "after their transfer to the
     the subject of a judicial appeal before a passive party”.
     the President of the District Court
     competent. Implicitly, this provision 144. Article 43-2, paragraph 17, subparagraph 4,
     tion could be applicable to the files provides for the possibility, for the authorities
     individuals by reading combined with judicial, to extend the duration of
     Article 43-1, paragraph 4, which provides that retention “due to a request
     “[t]he shelf life [applicable for current review”.
     particular files] will not be
     145. In general, the CNPD questions
     applicable to the central file” and of the article still on the proportionality of this
     43-2, paragraph 18, which provides that “[a]t the period of 30 years, which is added to the duration
     later at the time of transfer to the storage in the active part of the
     passive part of the central file of central file information.
     information and personal data
     under a judicial police mission, 146. Firstly, it suggests providing
     information and data of a nature a periodic review mechanism of the
     personnel in question who are found to be necessary and of the proportionality of the
     in other files must be sup- preservation of data under the direction of
     awarded in these […]”. However, for decisions of the judicial authorities in accordance with
     reasons related to legal certainty, the Comment in article 4 of the law of 1 August 2018
     national mission considers that it would be preferable to process data in
     rable to provide explicitly that the criminal proceedings which provide, on the one hand, that
     the State curator can order the same the data controller "fixes
     measures concerning con- temporary data appropriate time limits for the erasure of
     bare in particular files. personal data or for




                                                             253
6 APPENDICES




         regular verification of the need for preservation in the active part of the
         keep personal data for 20 years, with the retention period
         sonnel” and on the other hand “establishes proposed rules for the passive part of
         procedures to ensure compliance 30 years, results in a duration of
         of these deadlines. total conservation of 50 years before a
                                                                possible definitive archiving within the meaning of
    147. Secondly, it proposes that the law of 17 August 2018 on archiving. He
         legislator sets retention periods should be adapted if necessary
         less long for the passive part of the shelf life in the part
         central file, above all for passive data, while the total duration seems
         relating to criminal cases having disproportionate.
         resulted in acquittal decisions
         and of dismissal. In this case, it could be 150. Thus, the CNPD suggests that, following the
         be left to the discretion of the authorities logic of the procedure put in place at
         courts, for reasons related to the case Article 43-2, paragraph 13, to provide
         in question, to order time limits for also the possibility, for the authorities
         preservation, following the example of the competent courts, to order the erasure
         written feedback from the data cement authorities of the passive part of the
         legal proceedings in the matter of “request for a central file.
         revision in progress”. The CNPD observes
         than with the generalized implementation “6.3. The data entered in a
         e-justice”, the need to have access to specific files
         police documents relating to
         revision will become less obvious, and it 151. Regarding particular files do
         may, at this time, be considered to have no legal provisions
         delete the data at the level of defining the retention periods, it
         police within short deadlines. it is necessary to differentiate the scenarios
                                                                following:
    148. By the same logic, it would also be
         possible to define deadlines - Data contained in the part
         different for others of active violations of the particular file accessed
         nal, particularly in relation to the severity sible following the access rules
         of the facts and the criminal sanction envisaged in article 43-1, paragraph 3
         geable. in application of retention periods
                                                                    vation set by the head of
    149. Furthermore, for data relating to processing in accordance with Article
         mutual assistance, the combination of duration 43-1, paragraph 4;




                                            254
152. The National Commission notes with 153. The National Commission may subscribe
     interest that, pursuant to article 43-1, to the solution adopted in the two cases of
     paragraph 4, retention periods figure. It nevertheless suggests planning
     tion in the active part of the files by- explicitly their transfer in the part
     particular files should not exceed the passives of the particular file in question and
     retention periods applicable to the to limit the purposes to those referred to in
     active part of the central file, except in the case of article 43-2, paragraph 19, applicable to the
     legal provision to the contrary providing for the passive part of the central file.
     longer shelf lives.
     It notes that the said provision does not - Data contained in part
     does not contain criteria for active determination of the particular file does not
     tion of the shelf life and leaves no passive part having
     thus a very broad margin of appreciation reaches, in principle, the durations of
     to the Grand-Ducal Police with reference to conservation, in accordance with Article
     43-2, paragraph 18, second paragraph only.
     maximum. Moreover, she regrets that
     Article 43-1, paragraph 4, as well as 154. Article 43-2, paragraph 18, second paragraph
     commentary of the articles remain silent seems to open the way to particular files
     on the “procedural rules” that the liers who would not have “possibility
     Grand-Ducal Police intends to give itself archiving”, that is to say, in the understanding
     to comply with article 4, paragraph of the CNPD of a passive party.
     2, of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018 and However, the CNPD questions the challenge
     article 5 of the directive with regard to access to data contained
     specific files. in a particular file referred to by said ali-
                                                           nea does not have a passive part.
       - Data contained in the part not-
         sive of the particular file, in the absence of 155. From a formal point of view, article 43-2,
         be able to be transferred in part paragraph 18, paragraph 2, mentions the
         passive of the central file, conforming- "possibility of archiving" and "durations
         article 43-2, paragraph 18, of archiving”. However, the CNPD notes that this
         paragraph 2; terminology can create confusion
       - Data relating to "traces pre- with the law of 17 August 2018 relating to
         raised in the context of surveys where archiving, while the passive part
         the perpetrators remained unaware of a central file does not constitute a
         bare” contained in the passive part definitive archiving measure within the meaning
         of the particular file, in accordance with said law. Therefore, it would be
         article 43-2, paragraph 18, third paragraph; better to refer to transmission




                                                             255
6 APPENDICES




         of data in the passive part of the terms of the authors of the bill,
         particular file concerned and to the “durations a criminal provision” in terms of
         conservation”. violations of access rights, and this to
                                                               towards all state authorities and
    156. Concerning the private entity specific files”, taking into account, of this
         implemented on the basis of a that the CNPD understands, the evolution
         separate legal instrument, there should be case law in this regard. She's calling back
         to refer to the relative provisions nevertheless that this in no way detracts
         to the retention periods defined therein. the responsibility of the person responsible for
         The National Commission suggests that, in particular, put in place
         following the adoption of this project of access control systems ex
         law, the legislator aligns these ante, reviews of logists and training
         legal provisions to the principles released by its agents.
         in the provisions under consideration.
                                                               8. Transitional provisions
    157. The law of 17 August 2018 relating to archiving
         may require documents to be kept 159. The CNPD recalls that Article 63,
         contained in the central file or paragraph 1 of the law of August 1, 2018
         particular files beyond the durations of relative to the processing of data in
         retention discussed in this criminal matter provides provisions
         bill, namely the transitional and compliance documents:
         likely to be subject to a
         final archiving and, where applicable, a “(1) Exceptionally and when this
         transfer to the national archives. However, requires disproportionate effort,
         the CNPD recalls that access must be to data processing systems at
         principle impossible, except strict personal character automated installed
         for the implementation of operations before May 6, 2016 are brought into compliance
         data processing for with Article 24 no later than May 6, 2023.
         purposes referred to in the said law of 17 August 2018,
         mainly packaging in (2) Notwithstanding paragraph 1, and
         preparation for final archiving. in exceptional circumstances,
                                                               a given processing system
         7. Amendment of article 509-1 automated personal data
            of the Penal Code referred to in paragraph 1 may be enforced
                                                               compliance with section 24 up to a
    158. The bill provides for the modification of the article deadline to be determined by a decision
         509-1 of the Penal Code, by inserting therein, to the Government in Council and located




                                           256
after May 6, 2023 when, failing that, 162. The CNPD also wonders about the absence
     From this, serious difficulties arise from the procedural requirements laid down in
     for the operation of the system of article 7, paragraph 2, of the bill at the
     automated processing in question. The light of the constraints imposed by the law
     deadline cannot be set later than August 1, 2018 for processing
     May 6, 2026.” data in criminal matters.

160. Article 7, paragraphs 1 and 2, of bill 163. In the commentary to the articles, the
     under consideration provides that the authors of the bill explain, in
                                                          based on the deadlines set out in
     “Files other than the central file mentioned in article 63, that,
     of the Police drawn up before the entry into
     force of this Act are put "As programming efforts
     in accordance with article 43-1 of the must therefore be carried out no later than
     this law no later than 6 May 2023. for these dates, it is appropriate to
                                                          provide the same deadlines for the others
     By way of derogation from the first paragraph, when this adaptations to be provided within the framework of the
     requires disproportionate effort and this bill, which requires work
     the intervention of external resources, considerable on the technical level, the
     files other than the central recruitment file for highly qualified personnel
     can be brought into compliance with specialized and resource intervention
     article 43-1 of this law until the 6th day.
     May 2026.”
                                                          It should also be specified that the
161. The CNPD wonders about the compatibility of Police has certain banks of
     between the two specialized data transitional provisions that have been acquired
     while this bill should only from international suppliers,
     in principle only specify and such software for comparison of
     clarify the implementation of fingerprint or fingerprint requirements
     arising from the aforementioned law of August 1 genetics, or other applications
     2018. The transitional provision of the law used in particular by the Service of
     of August 1, 2018 is limited to the judicial police in terms of management and
     effect to allow a delay in the exploitation of the traces found on the
     Compliance with crime scene obligations. Suppliers must
     of article 24 of the said law relating to the in any way adapting their software to the
     journaling for files created later for the year 2026, it should
     before May 6, 2016. therefore to set the same date for the




                                                           257
6 APPENDICES




         in accordance with the provisions of the bill, in particular by limiting them
         of this law, in order to avoid costs for files created before May 6, 2016 and in
         disproportionate or the risk of restricting the scope thereof to Article
         not be able to carry out the interventions 43-1, paragraph 5 relating to logging
         needed within the set time. "on an "exceptional basis and when this requires
                                                              disproportionate effort.
    164. The CNPD considered, in its opinion on
         in the central file, that: 167. The National Commission recalls that
                                                              technical considerations should not
         "In view of the elements available to the not alone justify long
         CNPD currently as to the structure transition periods. Like the
         and the configuration of the central file, it foreign counterparts, the management
         would like to point out that the Grand-Du- Legal or Regulatory Police for the processing of
         cale will not be able to refute behind data should not be considered as
         technical constraints to justify a brake on the effectiveness of police action
         noncompliance. It is the responsibility of the Grand Ducal at this time, but can accompany and
         the data controller to guide the work of the law enforcement authorities
         all the necessary measures to ensure daily by providing rules
         rer that it is able to comply fully- clear and transparent to all stakeholders
         ment the rights of the data subjects involved and data subjects.
         - even if this requires redeveloping-
         ment of a computer system. 168. Especially for complex files,
                                                              due to the volumes of data processed,
    165. The same observation is valid for the formats used and the interconnections
         any existing files used from these files, the CNPD considers that it is
         by the Grand Ducal Police. In this respect, it is already possible to determine who
         she wonders how the considera- bles are used and for what purposes, what
         invoked, in particular data are stored and for how
         “the intervention of external resources” of time, how access control has
         constitute “exceptional circumstances and a posteriori is carried out. Thus, the
         and that an adaptation up to the CNPD considers that it is possible to supervise,
         May 6, 2023 would pose "serious difficulties through a legislative or regulatory text,
         […] for the operation of the system of these files without in any way hindering
         automated processing in question”. the effectiveness of law enforcement authorities.

    166. The CNPD considers that it would be preferable 169. The authors of the bill consider that
         to align the transitional provisions in the Grand Ducal Police needs a




                                           258
increased flexibility in the creation of 172. In conclusion, the CNPD welcomes the project
     files, without resorting to a legal basis. of law which provides a detailed framework
     As explained, the CNPD can follow this central file. Even though she can
     reasoning for a series of files to agree that it is not necessary
     as an extension of the central file to individually frame each
     or particular files with implemented data processing
     separate legal basis. However, for these by the Police in the exercise of their
     files, more versatile and easier judicial police or police missions
     adaptable, it is difficult to admit an administrative person, she reiterates her conviction
     non-compliance for a period ranging from that, in the operation of a
     from 3 to 6 years old, including a nonconforming democratic society, it would be preferable
     limited to logging obligations. to regulate by legal provisions
                                                            or regulate the processing of
170. The CNPD understands that the most intrusive “new” data, due to the
     central file will be operational at the entry number of persons concerned and
     in force of the law deriving from this by the sensitivity of the data processed.
     bill, i.e. six months after the
     publication of the said law in the Official Journal 173. Thus decided in Belvaux on March 16
     of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Item 2021.
     7, paragraph 3, of the bill provides that
     access to the existing central file would be 174. The National Commission for the Protection
     limited to officers and data police officers
     court for one year after entry
     in force of law. Article 7, paragraphs 4 175. Tine A. Larsen
     at 7, of the bill governs migration and President
     the interaction between the existing central file
     to date and the "new" central file. Thierry Lallemang
     These provisions do not require the Commissioner
     no specific comments from
     of the CNPD. Christopher Buschman
                                                            Commissioner
171. In any case, the CNPD reminds
     that compliance efforts for Marc Lemmer
     the systems in place must move forward, Commissioner
     in particular by implementing the
     recommendations resulting from the opinion of the
     CNPD and the opinion of the IGP of 2019.




                                                             259
6 APPENDICES




Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7795 amending
                                                                           It is apparent from the explanatory memorandum that this
of the amended law of 17 July 2020 on measures to combat
                                                                           bill aims in particular to allow the
against the Covid-19 pandemic.
                                                                           Horeca sector from April 7, 2021 to open
(Deliberation n°14/AV11/2021 of 03/29/2021)
                                                                           its terraces under very strict conditions
                                                                           as, among other things, a "new formality
                                                                           mandatory important for contact tracing
                                                                           in the event of epidemiological contagion, namely
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, the obligation for the institutions concerned
                   letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27 to keep a register of their customers. »
                   2016 relating to the protection of persons
                   with regard to the processing of data The CNPD notes that Article 2 of the
                   of a personal nature and to the free movement of bill n°7795 provides for modifying the content
                   these data, and repealing the current directive 95/46/ of article 2 of the amended law of 17
                   EC (general protection regulation of July 2020 on measures to combat the
                   data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which the Covid-19 pandemic is taking place (hereinafter: “the amended law of
                   refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 relating to July 17, 2020”), so that its paragraph (4)
                   organization of the National Commission for henceforth provides for the following:
                   data protection and the general regime
                   on data protection, the Commission “The establishments referred to in paragraph 1,
                   national authority for data protection (here as well as the restaurants and bars of the establishments-
                   after designated "the National Commission" accommodation must be
                   or “the CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with keeping a register of their customers which contains the
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, the following data:
                   government and other institutions and
                   bodies regarding legislative measures 1° the first name(s) and surname of the declaring client;
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of 2° the residence address of the declaring client;
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons 3° a telephone number of the declaring client,
                   with regard to the treatment”. and if applicable, an e-mail address.
                                                                           These data must be collected and recorded
                   As of March 25, 2021, the Minister registered by the establishments on the arrival of the
                   of Health seized the National Commission customers and kept for a period of
                   a request for an opinion on bill no. 7795 three weeks from the collection, in order to
                   amending the amended law of 17 facilitate any subsequent contact tracing
                   July 2020 on control measures in the event of epidemiological contagion. Access
                   Covid-19 pandemic (hereinafter the “draft law on establishments referred to in paragraph 1 and
                   No. 7795"). restaurants and bars in establishments




                                                            260
accommodation is conditional on the commu- processing of personal data
nication by the customer of the data referred to subject to the rules provided for by the GDPR.
the 1st paragraph.
                                                       1. As to the purpose limitation principle
These data are communicated, in accordance
pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 2, last paragraph, Pursuant to Article 5 paragraph (1) letter
to the Director of Health or his delegate in b) of the GDPR, the purposes of the processing of
high-risk exposure. They must be given must be determined, explicit and
deleted after three weeks by legitimate establishments. It appears from the new articles 2
paragraph (4) and 5 paragraph (2) last
for purposes other than those provided for in the paragraph of the amended law of July 17, 2020
previous. » that the collection by establishments of
                                                       personal data of customers
Under the new paragraph added by the and subsequent registration in their
authors of bill n°7795 in article 5 register serve to facilitate any search for
paragraph (2) of the amended law of July 17 subsequent contact by the Health Department
2020, the persons in charge of the establishments of the people who suffered an exposure
catering and drinking establishments and high-risk due to one of the following situations
accommodation establishments which have referred to in Article 1, point 5° of the said law, such as
a restaurant or a bar (hereafter: “for example having had contact, without wearing a
establishments”) must transmit “on a mask, face-to-face for more than fifteen
request, to the Director of Health or his minutes and within two meters with a
delegate the data provided for in article 2, infected person.
paragraph 4, persons who have suffered
high-risk exposure due to one of The CNPD does not have the skills
situations referred to in Article 1, point 5°. » necessary scientific and epidemiological
                                                       in order to assess the added value of the
The commentary on the articles does not give such a register in terms of contact.
additional details on the new tracing implemented by the Management of the
aforementioned provisions. Health. Nevertheless, to the extent that the
                                                       opening conditions of the terraces are
The National Commission would like to point out, on a restrictive basis1 and taking into account what
preliminary that the collection and registration of infected people are anyway
of the aforementioned data in the register as required pursuant to Article 5 paragraph (1)
must keep establishments (hereinafter: the of the amended law of July 17, 2020 to inform
register”), whether it is a register in the form of the Health Department on the identity of
paper or in electronic form, constitutes a persons with whom they have had in the




                                                              261
6 APPENDICES




    last forty-eight hours of establishment contacts are obliged to collect, i.e.
    likely to generate a high risk, i.e. first name, last name, residential address,
    of infection, she wonders in which case a telephone number, and if so,
    specific the Health Department would ask for an email address of the declaring client, are
    an establishment to send it really necessary for the pursued purpose of the
    personal data included in contact tracing. Does the collection
    his register. first and last name, as well as a single means of
                                                           contact (telephone or e-mail address) would not be
    The National Commission congratulates the authors not sufficient in this context?
    of bill no. 7795 under review to have
    provided in the body of the text2 that the data On the other hand, if the purpose of keeping the register
    collected by the establishments cannot and of a possible transmission of the data
    under no circumstances be used for purposes other than the personal ones listed therein by the establishments.
    the communication, in accordance with article 5, to the Department of Health, is to identify
    paragraph 2, last paragraph of the amended law of proud customers, or even staff, who were in
    July 17, 2020, to the Health Department in the event of direct contact with an infected person, fault
    high-risk exposure. Any other use, specified in the commentary of the articles, the
    such as for CNPD marketing purposes, the question arises whether the indication of the day,
    or prospecting, will therefore be strictly from the time of arrival of the customer and possibly
    prohibited and the data collected in the table number would be necessary with regard to
    context of the pandemic will not be able in any way for the purpose of contact tracing. In addition, the date
    cases be added to the indicated database from which the data was collected.
    existing customers, if any, is essential in order to be able to determine
    in the establishment, nor be provided to others ner the date of deletion of the data after
    businesses. three weeks by the establishment, in accordance
                                                           ment to the new article 2 paragraph (4) subparagraph 2
    2. As for the principle of minimization of the amended law of July 17, 2020.
       Datas
                                                           The CNPD also wonders whether the obligation
    Depending on the principle of minimizing the communication of the data referred to in paragraph
    born (article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the GDPR), 1st of the new paragraph (2) of article 2
    the personal data collected must of the amended law of July 17, 2020 is binding on
    be limited to what is necessary for each person seated on the same table or
    of the purposes for which they are processed. only one person per table.

    In this regard, the CNPD wonders on the one hand Finally, the National Commission would like to
    if any personal data that insist that when collecting the data, the




                                            262
establishments cannot proceed to an eight hours respectively before the onset
identity check of the person, for example symptoms or before the positive result of a
by asking to produce a diagnostic test document for infection with the SARS- virus
of identity. On the other hand, she believes that a kind CoV-2. »
of “Plausibilitätsprüfung”3 would be appropriate,
for the purpose of checking only whether the As mentioned above, whether the purpose of holding
data indicated are complete, plausible from the register and from a possible transmission
and not imaginary at first sight (by personal data contained therein
example if a customer would indicate as an address to the Department of Health, is to identify the
email mickeymouse@...). individuals who were in contact with a
                                                      infected person, the CNPD wonders
3. As to the principle of limitation why establishments are required
   of data retention to retain their records for three
                                                      weeks, while contact tracing
With regard to the retention period of the implemented by the Department of Health
personal data in accordance with the limit of two days preceding the appearance
in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR, symptoms or the positive result of a
said duration must not exceed that which ne- diagnostic test for infection with the SARS virus-
necessary with regard to the purposes for which CoV-2. In the absence of details in the
the data is processed. comments on articles, the CNPD cannot
                                                      assess whether the shelf life of three
Paragraph 2 of the new article 2 paragraph (4) of weeks is proportionate to the
the amended law of July 17, 2020 provides for the purpose pursued.
this context that the data collected and
recorded by establishments on arrival Furthermore, the CNPD notes that the duration of
of customers must be retained for retention appears both in paragraph 2, as well as in
a period of three weeks from their paragraph 3 of the new article 2 paragraph (4)
collection. nea 2 of the amended law of July 17, 2020. Thus,
                                                      she suggests striking it out in one of two places.
The CNPD notes, however, that people
infected are only obliged under 4. As regards the right to information of persons
Article 5 paragraph (1) of the amended law of 17 concerned
July 2020 to inform the Department of Health
on the identity of the persons with whom In accordance with Article 13 of the GDPR, any
they have had contacts likely to provide a series of information to the person
generate a high risk of infection “in the person concerned at the time of collection of the
period which may not exceed forty personal data with it.




                                                             263
6 APPENDICES




    This information must therefore be given to people who have been exposed to
    customers at the time the high-risk establishments).
    collect their data, and this in a format
    easily accessible (as for example 5. As for security measures
    an integrated information notice on the
    paper / electronic form to be completed In accordance with Article 32 paragraph (1)
    by the customer or a billboard visible to the GDPR, the controller must
    the entrance to the establishment). implement technical measures and
                                                        appropriate organizational arrangements to ensure
    This information notice must also have a level of security adapted to the risk for the users.
    be drafted in precise terms and in the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.
    simple.4 Subject to his comments
    mentioned above, the CNPD is of the opinion that this More concretely, these measures must
    mention should at least include guarantees that the data will only be accessible
    following elements: only to authorized persons (confidentiality),
                                                        that they will be available on request
       - the identity and contact details of the establishment - by the Health Department (availability) and
         sow; that they will not have been modified after their
       - the purpose of the data collection (facilitative collection (integrity).
         read any further contact tracing
         in the event of epidemiological contagion by In the event of keeping a register in pa- format
         the Department of Health); pier, it would be recommended to make available
       - the legal basis for the processing (the law of the individual forms that customers
         amended of July 17, 2020 on the measures can complete and submit directly to
         fight against the Covid-19 pandemic); the establishment. On the other hand, if the establishment
       - the data retention period wishes to work with a single form repre-
         (three weeks) ; ing all the data from its various
       - the rights available to customers (no-customers, he must in principle fill it out himself
         ment the right of access and rectification (on the verbal indications of the customers). THE
         cation, as well as the right to introduce a completed forms (constituting the register) of-
         complaint to the CNPD); should be kept in a secure place (for
         possible recipients (on request, for example a locked cabinet or room) and
         to the Health Department concerning the in order to guarantee the confidentiality of the data
         people who have been exposed to data collected, the establishment must prevent
         high risk). customers can, where appropriate, have access to
       - any recipients (on request contact details of other customers present at the same
         to the Health Directorate regarding the times.




                                          264
If a register is kept in the format
electronically, the CNPD recommends
secure access to the information system
especially with a password
"robust" and not to store the data
collected on unsecured equipment
(like for example USB sticks without words
outmoded).

Thus decided in Belvaux on March 29, 2021.

The National Commission for the Protection of
data

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner




                                                  265
6 APPENDICES




Third additional opinion of the National Commission
for data protection relating to the bill
No. 7498 amending the amended law of July 18 of July 18, 2018 on the Grand-Ducal Police (hereafter
                                                                                                after the “bill”)211.
2018 on the Grand Ducal Police.
(Deliberation n°16/AV12/2021 of April 28, 2021)
                                                                                                As of April 17, 2020, the Commission
                                                                                                National Council issued its additional opinion on
                                                                                                the government amendment to the draft
                   In accordance with article 46, paragraph law212, approved by the Council of Government
                   1, letter (c) of Directive (EU) No. 2016/680 in its session of March 20, 2020.
                   of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
                   natural persons with regard to the processing On March 3, 2021, the National Commission
                   of personal data by the nale issued its second supplementary opinion
                   competent authorities for prevention purposes following the amendments relating to the
                   offences, investigations and law enforcement213, adopted by the Commission of the
                   Prosecution or Enforcement of Homeland Security and Defense Adopted
                   criminal sanctions, and to the free movement of November 19, 2020.
                   such data, and repealing Framework Decision
                   2008/977/JHA of the Council (hereinafter referred to as "On 29 March 2021, the Security Committee
                   the directive”), to which article 8 of Interior and Defense refers has adopted a series
                   the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of amendments relating to the bill (here
                   the National Commission for the Protection of after the "amendments").
                   data and the general regime on the protection
                   data (hereinafter the “Law of August 1st Insofar as the amendments concern
                   2018 on the organization of the Commission of the provisions which were commented on by the
                   national for data protection and the CNPD in its aforementioned opinions of 28 February, 17
                   general data protection regime”), April 2020 and March 3, 2021
                   the National Commission for the Protection of to notify them.
                   data (hereinafter the “National Commission
                   or the "CNPD"), "advises the House - Ad Amendment 1
                   deputies, the Government and other
                   institutions and organizations regarding measures Amendment 1 is intended to modify the
                   legislative and administrative provisions relating to paragraph (3) of the new article 43bis of the
                   protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals amended law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Police
                   with regard to the processing of ducal data.
                   personal”.
                                                                                                It is to be regretted that the remarks of
                   On February 28, 2020, the CNPD advised that the CNPD project had not been taken into consideration.
                   Law No. 7498 amending the law amended by the authors of the bill with regard to

                   211
                         Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law n°7498 amending the amended law of
                         July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°04/2020 of February 28, 2020.
                   212
                         Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to bill n°7498 amending the law
                         modified on July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°10/2020 of April 17, 2020.
                   213
                         Second additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law No. 7498 amending
                         of the amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police, deliberation n°8/AV7/2021 of March 3, 2021.



                                                                           266
concerns his observations raised in the analysis of the course of the intervention and
its opinion of March 3, 2021, namely that “the internal training project makes it possible to identify
of law under consideration currently provides that directly a data subject,
only the Director General of Police grand- irreversible masking techniques must
can take the initiative, with the authorization to be used for the purpose of anonymization”.
station of the Minister, to extend the system
VISUPOL video surveillance systems to others These new provisions raise the
municipal territories than that of the City following observations of the CNPD.
of Luxemburg. In the event that said
system would be extended to other territories - On the notion of personal data
councils, would it not be necessary to provide a staff
system which would not be based solely on the
initiative of the Director General of Police With regard to the provisions relating
grand-ducal? »214. to irreversible masking techniques,
                                                                                authors of the bill specify, in this regard, that
The National Commission reiterates such "in the specific context of sequences
considerations. of images, it is appropriate to understand by
                                                                                identifiable” means any person who can
          - Ad Amendment 3 be directly and unequivocally identified
                                                                                by reference to one or more specific elements
The purpose of this amendment is to modify the specifics specific to its physical identity, so
paragraph (11) of the new article 43bis that the other identifiers provided for by the definition
amended law of July 18, 2018 on the Police grand- tion of “personal data” in
ducal. the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of
                                                                                natural persons with regard to the processing
This amendment introduces new personal data in terms of
provisions determining the duration of criminal and national security retention
of images from the video system do not apply to images”.
monitoring and processed for “analysis” purposes
the course of the intervention and the training However, it should be recalled that Article 2,
internal tion” to a period “maximum of ten paragraph (1), point 1°, of the law of 1 August
years ". 2018 relating to the protection of persons
                                                                                with regard to data processing
This amendment also has a personal purpose in criminal matters as well as
to introduce a second paragraph in the paragraph that, in matters of national security, defines the
(11) of the aforementioned article. The provisions added the notion of “personal data
provide that "[i]f the images used for such as" any information relating to a




214
      Deliberation n°8/AV7/2021 of 3 March 2021, point 2 “On the advice of the Union of Luxembourg towns and municipalities”, page 5.



                                                                                          267
6 APPENDICES




    identified natural person or personally identifiable. As well as the elements
    (hereinafter referred to as the "data subject"); indicated in the definition referred to in that article
    is deemed to be a “natural person 2, paragraph (1), point 1°, and listed after
    identifiable” a natural person who can “in particular” are identified by way of non-
    be identified, directly or indirectly, exhaustive, the adverb "in particular" being, here,
    in particular by reference to an identifier, such as indicative in nature.
    only a name, an identification number,
    location data, an online identifier, Based on their comments, the authors
    or to one or more specific elements of the bill therefore seem to carry out a
    specific to his physical, physiological identity, erroneous interpretation of the notion of data
    genetic, psychic, economic, cultural of a personal nature. The text under notice should
    or social” (emphasis in the text by the then be modified, so as to reflect the definition
    CNPD). as provided for in Article 2, paragraph (1), point
                                                                                   1°, of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection
    In the context of video surveillance, there is a question of natural persons with regard to the processing
    It should be noted that such a system is susceptible to personal data in
    to train the collection of pictorial information in criminal matters as well as in terms of security
    of people entering the monitored area which national.
    are identifiable on the basis of their appearance
    or other specific elements. Such in- - On the notions of pseudonymization and
    training are to be qualified as data with anonymization
    personal because they make it possible to identify
    directly or indirectly from persons The authors of the bill intend to provide
    entering the guarded area. than irreversible masking techniques
                                                                                   will be used for anonymization purposes. This-
    Therefore, an image from a hanging system, according to the comments of the authors of the
    of video surveillance which would contain bills, the National Commission includes
    elements making it possible to directly identify that these techniques would not allow
    or indirectly a natural person is anonymization of personal data
    to be considered as personal data because the said techniques would only target
    staff. the “anonymization” of information which allows
                                                                                   directly identify a person
    The fact that the persons concerned may be concerned.
    be identified directly or indirectly
    does not affect the fact that the Or, there is reason to draw the attention of the authors of the
    information that allows them to be identified draft law on the fact that anonymization should not
    are to be qualified as character data not to be confused with pseudonymization.




    215
          See Guidelines 3/2019 on the processing of personal data by video devices, adopted on January 29, 2020 by the
          European Data Protection Board, point 2.1. “Personal data”, page 6.



                                                             268
With regard to anonymization, personal property in such a way that these do not
that this notion is not defined by law can no longer be attributed to a person
of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection of the data subjects without having recourse to
natural persons with regard to the processing additional information, provided
personal data in terms of whether this additional information is
criminal as well as national security matters, kept separately and subject to
it should be noted that recital 21 technical and organizational measures
of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the Parliament in order to ensure that the data to be
European and of the Council, relating to the protection of personal character are not attributed
natural persons with respect to an identified natural person or
processing of personally identifiable data”. Pseudonymization allows
by the competent authorities for the purposes of thus processing the data of individuals without
crime prevention and detection to be able to identify them directly.
criminal proceedings, investigations and prosecutions The data concerned therefore retains a
matter or execution of criminal sanctions, personal nature.
and the free movement of such data, and
repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA Therefore, if the intention was to anonymize
of the Council, states that “[t]here is (…) no need for personal data from
apply the principles relating to the protection of a video surveillance system, then
from data to anonymous information, to irreversible masking techniques
information not relating to one shall apply to all information
identified or identifiable natural person, which make it possible to identify directly or
nor to personal data indirectly a data subject.
anonymized in such a way that Conversely, if only the information
the person concerned is not or no longer allowing the direct identification of a
identifiable. ". person concerned are subject to said
                                                      techniques, then this process will be qualified as
Anonymization is therefore a processing that pseudonymizes. In fact, in such a case,
consists of using a set of techniques will still be possible to identify indirectly
in such a way as to make it impossible, in practice, for the persons concerned.
any identification of the person by any
any way and irreversibly. In addition, the authors' attention should be drawn
                                                      of the bill on the fact that if the data
As far as pseudonymization is concerned, the rules of
Article 2, paragraph (2), point 5°, of the data protection law will not be intended
August 1, 2018 aforesaid provides that it is to apply. This means that the principle of
in a "processing of data with a limitation of conservation should not be




                                                             269
6 APPENDICES




    respected and that a retention period is not Thus decided in Belvaux on April 28, 2021.
    should therefore not appear in the bill under
    notice. The National Commission for the Protection of
                                                                                          data
    The CNPD therefore considers it necessary that
    the authors of the bill clarify these Tine A. Larsen
    provisions and use the appropriate notions President
    from a data protection perspective.
    As such, the National Commission suggests Thierry Lallemang
    the authors of the bill to draw inspiration from the Commissioners
    Belgian provisions, in that they provide
    that after anonymization, “the information and Christophe Buschmann
    personal data collected at the Commissioner
    means of "216" cameras can be used
    for didactic and pedagogical purposes in Marc Lemmer
    as part of the training of members of the Statutory Auditors
    police departments”217.




    216
          Article 25/6 of the amended law on the police function of August 5, 1992.
    217
          Article 25/7, paragraph (2), of the amended law on the police function of August 5, 1992.



                                                                  270
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                      data relating to the draft regulation
In accordance with Article 46, Grand-Ducal paragraph relating to the composition and functioning
1st, letter (c) of the directive (UE) n° 2016/680 of the consultative commission for the evaluation
of April 27, 2016 on the protection of video surveillance.
natural persons with regard to processing (Deliberation n°17/AV13/2021 of 07/05/2021)
personal data by the
competent authorities for prevention purposes
criminal offences, investigations and
proceedings in this regard or the execution of
penal sanctions, and to the free movement of 43bis paragraph (3) of the bill n°7498
these data, and repealing the framework decision amending the amended law of 18
2008/977/JAI of the Council (hereinafter referred to as July 2018 on the Grand Ducal Police (VISUPOL)
“the Directive”), to which Article 8 refers (hereinafter the “preliminary draft Grand-
of the law of 1 August 2018 on the ducal organisation”).
of the National Commission for the Protection
data and the general regime on The authors of the preliminary draft regulation
data protection (hereinafter the “grand-ducal law propose to provide that said
of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the advisory commission, namely
National Commission for Protection composed of a representative of the Commission
data and the general plan on the national. The CNPD understands that its participation
data protection”), the Commission envisaged within the said commission
national data protection advisory would be justified on the basis of its
(hereinafter the “National Commission” or the expert in the matter, which it welcomes. However,
“CNPD”), “advises the Chamber of Deputies, it questions questions relating to
the Government and other institutions and its independence and the risks of conflicts
organizations about legislative measures of interest that may arise.
and administrative procedures relating to the protection of
rights and freedoms of natural persons Indeed, according to Article 27, paragraph (1),
with regard to the processing of data of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection
personal”. tion of natural persons with regard to the
                                                      processing of personal data
By letter dated April 23, 2021, the Minister nel in criminal matters as well as in matters of
Internal Security has contacted the National Security Commission, the CNPD can be consulted
national of a request for an opinion relating to the subject “a) when an impact assessment relating
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on data protection, as it stands
to the composition and functioning of the provision provided for in Article 26, indicates that the processing
advisory committee for the evaluation of would present a high risk if the person in charge
video surveillance, as provided for in the processing article, did not take measures to




                                                             271
6 APPENDICES




    mitigate the risk, or b) when the type of could, subsequently also be brought about, the
    processing, in particular, because of the use- if necessary, as a supervisory authority
    tion of new mechanisms, technologies or independent, to carry out its mission of control,
    procedures, presents high risks for without however being bound by the opinion which would have been
    the freedoms and rights of individuals concerned by the aforementioned advisory commission.
    born”.
                                                            In view of the observations which
    Thus, what would happen, if the Commission precedes, the CNPD would like to report
    National Police would be seized by the government's very cautious Police (with regard to
    of a prior consultation in the of a draft Grand-Ducal regulation) and of the
    cases referred to in Article 27 of the said law and that it legislates as to the advisability of providing
    would consider that the processing would constitute, the CNPD as a member of the commission
    where applicable, a violation of the advisory law of August 1 in question.
    2018 aforementioned?
                                                            Thus decided in Belvaux on May 7, 2021.
    In such cases, questions arise about
    the independence of the CNPD and any The National Commission for the Protection of
    conflicts of interest that could arise from post-data
    riori if the CNPD were to decide, as
    member of the advisory commission for Tine A. Larsen
    the evaluation of video surveillance, on the same President
    processing of data of which it will have been seized
    previously on the basis of the aforementioned article 27. Thierry Lallemang
                                                            Commissioner
    Finally, in the event that the commission
    aforementioned advisory body would adopt an opinion Christophe Buschmann
    for which the National Commission would have Commissioner
    expressed his disagreement during his analysis,
    as a member of the said commission Marc Lemmer
    advisory, it should be noted that the CNPD Commissioner




                                             272
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
                                                        data relating to bill n°7763 1. introducing
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, of a works fund; 2. amending the amended law of 16 May
letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of buildings built and
2016 relating to the protection of persons to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation amending the regulation
physical with regard to the processing of Grand Ducal data prescribing the measures for the execution of the law of the
of a personal nature and the free movement of May 16, 1975 on the status of joint ownership of buildings.
these data, and repealing directive 95/46/ (Deliberation n°18/AV14/2021 of 05/14/2021)
EC (general regulation on the protection of
data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which
refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for the condominiums of buildings built in
the protection of data and the general regime the aim of promoting the renovation, in a way
on data protection, the General Commission, and more particularly the renovation
National Data Protection Fund (ci- energy. Said works fund should also
after designating the “National Commission” to contribute to raising awareness
or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the owners as to the need to constitute
law of the Member State, the national parliament, kill sufficient treasury to meet the
the government and other institutions and costs of maintenance and optimization of use
organizations about rational legislative measures of the resources of their heritage
and administrative procedures relating to the protection of real estate, without being limited to the effort made to
rights and freedoms of natural persons in the acquisition of a building, as well as to prevent,
with regard to the treatment”. in general, the degradation and insalubrity
                                                        condominium buildings.
On March 2, 2021, Minister
du Logement referred the matter to the National Commission This opinion will be limited to questions
a request for an opinion on draft law no. 7763 relating to aspects of data protection
1. introducing a works fund; 2. of a personal nature raised by Article 1
amending the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the draft law, the draft Grand Duchy of
status of co-ownership of constructed buildings (cical does not raise questions relating to the
after the “draft law”) and draft personal data protection regulation.
grand-ducal modifying the grand-ducal regulation
prescribing measures for implementing the law of Article 1 of the bill provides for the insertion
May 16, 1975 on the status of co-ownership of a new article 11 bis in the amended law of
buildings (hereinafter the "draft regulation of May 16, 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of
grand-ducal”). built buildings, which establishes an obligation
                                                        on the part of the co-owners to constitute
It appears from the explanatory memorandum that the project of a works fund to meet the cost
law aims to establish a mandatory works fund for works decided by the general assembly.




                                                               273
6 APPENDICES




    This fund is fed by a contribution Finally, the National Commission benefits from the op-
    mandatory annual payment paid by each portunit, following its seizure, to report a
    co-owners. The payment of these problematic contributions to which she was confronted
    is attached to the lots and definitively acquired within the framework of the processing of requests for
    to the syndicate of co-owners. It appears from trainings and complaints, which concern the
    reading the commentary of the articles that the transparency of the information communicated
    contributions paid under the work fund by the trustee to the co-owners. In this regard,
    are calculated taking into account the rules it could be useful to specify in the provisions
    general load distribution. provisions of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 13 June 1975
                                                          prescribing measures for the execution of the law of the
    The new article 11 bis of the bill provides for May 16, 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of
    although in the event of the sale of a lot by a building, and in particular in its article 5,
    of the co-owners, the buyer interested in whether and under what conditions the transmission by
    the acquisition of this lot “must be able to consult a trustee of the individual accounting situation
    extract showing the current balance of the detailed contributions of a co-owner to the other co-
    to the fund of works acquired by this lot". The owners (respectively the members
    authors of the bill specify in this regard that joint ownership advice) is possible. In
    practice “the trustee will draw up these excerpts and the effects, apart from such a legal provision, the
    will make available to owners, so that they National Commission does not see what other
    can meet their legal obligations as a condition of lawfulness within the meaning of Article 6 of the
    consultation and communication with regard to the GDPR would be intended to legitimize such a trans-
    (future) buyers and sellers”. assignment given by the trustee to third parties.

    In the absence of precision on the content of such a Thus decided in Belvaux on May 14, 2021.
    extract in the comments of the articles and in
    the bill, the CNPD understands, however, that the National Commission for the Protection of
    personal data would be super-given
    likely to appear on such a document, in particular
    ment of personal data relating to Tine A. Larsen
    tives to the co-owner selling his lot. President
                                                          
    Therefore, there is reason to congratulate the authors of Thierry Lallemang
    bill for having provided a legal basis in Commissioner
    under which the trustee will draw up this extract
    to make it available to the co-owner Christophe Buschmann
    so that it meets its legal obligation Commissioner
    consultation and communication regarding
    future buyers and sellers. Marc Lemmer
                                                          Commissioner




                                            274
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                        data relating to bill no. 7787 relating to
                                                        to the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/821
                                                        of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017
                                                        setting out due diligence obligations
                                                        with regard to the supply chain for
                                                        Union importers who import tin,
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1,
                                                        tantalum and tungsten, their ores and
letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27
                                                        gold from conflict-affected or high-risk areas.
2016 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to data processing (Deliberation n°19/AV15/2021 of 05/14/2021)
of a personal nature and the free movement of
such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/
EC (general regulation on the protection of stemming trade in tin, tantalum and
data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which tungsten, their ores and gold (hereinafter the
refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on “3TG”) from conflict zones or from
organization of the National Commission for high risk by requiring importers to
protection of data and the general regime of the European Union a certain number of obliga-
on data protection, the Commission tions. More concretely, companies fall
national authority for data protection (targeting under the scope of the regulation
after designating the “National Commission” (EU) 2017/821 are therefore encouraged to do what is necessary
or the "CNPD") "advises, in accordance with the saire so that 3TG imported into Luxembourg
law of the Member State, the national parliament, do not come from conflict zones.
government and other institutions and
organizations about legislative measures This notice will be limited to matters
and administrative procedures relating to the protection of relating to aspects of the protection of
rights and freedoms of natural persons to personal data raised by
with regard to the treatment”. sections 5 to 8 of the bill.

As of March 18, 2021, Minister Or, it is not clear from these articles
of Foreign and European Affairs has entered which data processing operations would be
the National Commission of a request for an opinion implemented by the Minister responsible for
on draft law n°7787 relating to the inclusion of foreigners in its attributions (hereinafter
implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the Parliament "the competent authority") and by the Administration
European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 setting customs and excise duties, or what would be the
due diligence obligations to categories of personal data
with regard to the supply chain for which would, if necessary, be collected by
Union importers who import from the competent authority and by the Administration of
tin, tantalum and tungsten, their customs and excise ores.
and gold from conflict or high-risk areas
risk (hereinafter the "Bill"). Thus, article 5 of the bill lists the “encounters
                                                        teachings" that could be provided to
It appears from the explanatory memorandum that the objective of the competent authority and the Administration of
bill is to take national customs and excise duties. However, it is diffi-
the necessary measures for the implementation cile for the National Commission to know if
of the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2017/821, which aims at personal data would be




                                                               275
6 APPENDICES




    actually contained in this information- the joint data controllers
    lies. Remember that Article 4 number (1) of the data “define in a transparent manner
    GDPR defines the notion of personal data their respective obligations for the purpose of ensuring
    personal as “(…) any information complies with the requirements of the [GDPR], in particular
    relating to an identified natural person with regard to the exercise of the rights of
    or identifiable (hereinafter referred to as "person the data subject, and their obligations
    concerned"); is deemed to be a “respective person as to the communication of
    identifiable natural person" a natural person information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, by
    which can be identified, directly or indirectly, as agreed between them, unless and to the extent
    ment, in particular by reference to an identi- where their respective obligations are defined
    reliable, such as a name, an identification number, by Union law or by the law of the State
    location data, a member ID to which data controllers
    line, or to one or more specific items are subject”. The National Commission
    specific to his physical, physiological identity, also allows us to identify a small error
    genetic, psychic, economic, material cultural: it would be appropriate to add the term “of the
    or social. In this context, it includes “between “article 26” and “regulation”.
    that "the names of the persons in charge of the
    supervision of the internal process according to article Given the developments that
    4, letter c), of Regulation (EU) 2017/281", referred to above, the National Commission recalls
    Article 5, paragraph (2), number 2 of the draft that the definition of controllers
    law could actually constitute joint gifts in this article 8 would not be relevant
    born of a personal nature within the meaning of the GDPR. only on condition that personal data
                                                               staff are actually processed.
    Clauses 6 and 7 of the bill deal
    as for them on exchanges of information, Thus decided in Belvaux on May 14, 2021.
    between the Customs and Excise Administration
    and the competent authority (Article 6), and with the National Commission for the Protection of
    the European Commission and the authorities given
    authorities of the other Member States (Article
    7), although it does not appear precisely from these Tine A. Larsen
    articles if this information would contain or President
    not personal data.
                                                               Thierry Lallemang
    Finally, section 8 of the bill is limited to indicating Commissioner
    that the competent authority and the Administration
    customs and excise have the quality of Christophe Buschmann
    “joint controllers Commissioner
    data”, without however specifying the
    related data processing. Let's report to Marc Lemmer
    this subject that Article 26 of the GDPR provides that Commissioner




                                               276
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                                                     data relating to bill no. 7808 relating to
                                                                                     to the screening strategy for the Covid-19 virus in the
                                                                                     structures for vulnerable people and in the networks
In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, aid and care.
letter (c) of Regulation (EU) n°2016/679 of 27 (Deliberation n°20/AV16/2021 of 05/28/2021)
April 2016 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to data processing
of a personal nature and the free movement of
these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ self-diagnostics used for screening
EC (general regulation on the protection of SARS-CoV-2 for members of the
data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which personal218, service providers
refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on external219 as well as visitors aged six
organization of the National Commission for years and over220, before entering one of the
data protection and the general structural regime referred to in Article 1 of the text under opinion,
on data protection, the Commission unless they can present a result
national data protection authority (negative from a gene amplification test
after designated the “National Commission” of the SARS-CoV-2 virus dating from less than
or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the seventy-two hour or antigen test
law of the Member State, the national parliament, rapid SARS-CoV-2 certified dating back less than
government and other institutions and twenty-four hours.
organizations about legislation
and administrative procedures relating to the protection of Article 6 of the proposed law specifies
rights and freedoms of natural persons to whom are exempt from these obligations, the
with regard to the treatment”. aforesaid persons who are able to
                                                                                     present a Covid-19 vaccination certificate
By mail dated May 19, 2021, valid Madame or a screening test certificate
the Minister of Health invited the Serological Commission proving the presence of antibodies
national to decide on the proposal for anti-coronaviruses in the blood recognized by the
law n°7808 of the Deputy Michel Wolter Directorate of health.
relating to the virus screening strategy
Covid-19 in structures for persons As an introductory remark, the Commission
vulnerable and in aid and national networks wonders why such
care (hereinafter the “bill”). In the obligations would be established only
to the extent that amendments have been adopted by the said structures while
by the Health and Sports Commission in similar obligations do not seem
dated May 19, 2021, this notice will relate to the currently planned for other
bill, as amended. bodies, other than establishments
                                                                                     catering, drinking establishments,
The purpose of the bill is to provide accommodation, canteens and restaurants
make it compulsory to carry out social tests222.


218
      Article 4 of the bill, as amended
219
      Article 5 of the bill, as amended
220
      Article 3 of the bill, as amended
221
      Articles 3 to 5 of the bill, as amended
222
      See Chapter 1bis of the amended law of July 17, 2020 on measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.



                                                                                               277
6 APPENDICES




    In addition, it is not clear from the operations performed or not performed using
    bill, nor commentary on automated processes applied to
    articles, whether data-to-data processing or data sets to
    personal character would be carried out personal character, such as the collection,
    by the employer or operator of one of the registration, organization, structuring,
    structures, referred to in Article 1 of the proposal the conservation, adaptation or modification
    of law, following the presentation by a visitor, tion, extraction, consultation, use,
    an employee or service provider communication by transmission, dissemination
    external, of the negative or positive result of the test or any other form of provision, the
    rapid antigen or Covid-19 PCR test, reconciliation or interconnection, limitation
    of a vaccination certificate or of a vaccination certificate, erasure or destruction”.
    serological screening test proving the
    presence of anti-coronavirus antibodies in the Moreover, although these issues do not
    blood223. not fall within the scope of the protection of
                                                                                       data, the CNPD wonders, in terms of the right
    Will the employer or operator collect work, on the consequences of a refusal by a
    or will it save the data appearing on employee or an external service provider of
    said tests or said certificates as a result of their submitting to such obligations. The employee
    presentation ? will he have to work in another position? What
                                                                                       will be the consequences for a provider of
    In this regard, it should be recalled that the GDPR external service while the structure is not
    will only apply when an employer?
    processing of personal data
    nel will be carried out, for example if the fact that a In addition, in the event that treatments
    employee or visitor presented a result of data would be carried out within the framework
    rapid antigen test, a certificate of vac- of the proposed law, these must be based
    mination or a screening test certificate on one of the bases of lawfulness listed in
    serological is required to be recorded by the gold- article 6 of the GDPR as well as respecting one of the
    organization. Indeed, in accordance with Article 2 conditions referred to in Article 9, paragraph (2), of the
    paragraph (1) of the GDPR “[t]his GDPR Regulation insofar as data relating to
    applies to the processing of data relating to the health of the persons concerned would be
    personal, automated in whole or in part, and likely to be processed.
    only to the non-automated processing of personal data
    personal character contained or referred to As such, it should be recalled that the processing
    to be included in a file. In addition, Article 4 of personal data collected
    paragraph (2) of the GDPR defines the processing and processed under a legal obligation must
    such as "any operation or any set based on a legal basis in accordance



    223
          Article 7 of the bill, as amended, provides that ““[t]he result of the rapid antigen test or the Covid-19 PCR test, the certificate of
          vaccination or the serological screening test certificate proving the presence of anti-coronavirus antibodies in the blood must be presented to
          the employer or the operator of the structure on simple request. ".



                                                                278
in Article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR, read Finally, there is still reason to wonder about
together with its subsection (1), letters what will happen when the employer or
vs). In accordance with article 6, paragraph the structure for vulnerable people will be
(3), of the GDPR this legal obligation should confront a person presenting a
define the purposes of the processing and contain a positive test.
“specific provisions to adapt
the application of the rules of this regulation, On this subject, article 8 of the bill
among other things: the general conditions stipulate that "[a]ny self-diagnostic test
governing the lawfulness of processing by the service for the detection of positive SARS-CoV-2
controller; the types of one of the people mentioned in the
data subject to processing; items 3-5 require self-isolation
persons concerned; the entities to which the immediate of the person who tested himself and
the personal data may be a declaration by the person to the inspection
be communicated and the health purposes of the Health Department. There
which they may be; limitation of procedure and practical terms of
purposes; retention periods; and self-declaration in the event of a test result
treatment operations and procedures, positive by the person who tested himself
including measures to ensure even are defined by regulation
lawful and fair treatment, such as grand-ducal. ".
those provided for in other situations
special treatment as provided for in The National Commission therefore understands
Chapter IX”. that the transmission of health data
                                                                             in this context would be directly carried out
Recital 41 of the GDPR further specifies by the data subject upon inspection of
that this legislation should be the Directorate of Health, so that no
clear and precise and its application should be data processing would only be implemented
predictable for litigants, in accordance with by structures for vulnerable people
the case law of the Court of Justice of the Union or employers.
European Union and the European Court of Human Rights
of man224. Nevertheless, insofar as the CNPD
                                                                             is not in possession of the draft regulations
However, it must be noted that if Grand-Ducal processing, the purpose of which would be to define
of data had to be carried out on the basis of the procedure and the practical modalities of
of the proposed law, they could only self-declare in the event of a test result
validly rest on such a basis of lawfulness positive by the person who tested himself
while the device under opinion does not even respect, this one cannot decide more in
the requirements set out above. details about it.



224
      In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619. See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n°47413/06],
      § 228-229, 4 December 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.



                                                                                      279
6 APPENDICES




    In conclusion, in consideration of the Thus decided in Belvaux on May 28, 2021.
    above observations, the Commission
    National Commission considers that in the event that the National Commission for the Protection of
    data processing would be carried out
    by the organizations concerned, the text under
    review would not meet clarity requirements, Tine A. Larsen
    precision and predictability to which a President
    legal text must respond, in accordance with the
    case law of the Court of Justice of the Union Thierry Lallemang
    European Union and the European Court of Commissioners
    human rights225, and therefore cannot
    pronounce in more detail on the possible Christophe Buschmann
    aspects that would be related to the protection of Commissioners
    personal data.
                                                                                   Marc Lemmer
                                                                                   Commissioner




    225
          In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.



                                                             280
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                        data relating to bill no. 7797
                                                        amending the amended law of July 17, 2020
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, on measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.
letter (c) of Regulation (EU) n°2016/679 of 27 (Deliberation n° 21/AV17/2021 of 05/28/2021)
April 2016 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to data processing
of a personal nature and the free movement of
these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ The National Commission considers that the
EC (general regulation on the protection of private bills does not raise any question
data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which is particular from a point of view of the protection
refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on data, insofar as no
organization of the National Commission for the processing of personal data
the protection of data and the general regime could not a priori be identified in the text of the
on data protection, the Commission proposal under opinion.
national authority for data protection (here
after designated the “National Commission” Indeed, in the absence of details as to the
or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the terms of the health protocol that would be
law of the Member State, the national parliament, in place by the bodies managing the
the government and other institutions and accommodation structures for people
organizations about elderly legislative measures and the operators of support networks and
and administrative procedures relating to the protection of acute care in the field of housing
rights and freedoms of natural persons to framed for the elderly, the CNPD is not
with regard to the treatment”. unable to assess whether such a protocol
                                                        would involve data processing at
By letter dated May 19, 2021, Madam personal character.
the Minister of Health invited the Commission
to decide on the proposal Thus decided in Belvaux on May 28, 2021.
law no. 7797 amending the law
of July 17, 2020 on the measures of the National Commission for the Protection of
fight against the Covid-19 pandemic (hereafter the data
" Law proposition ").
                                                        Tine A. Larsen
According to the explanatory memorandum, the proposal President
the purpose of the law is to require organizations
managers of accommodation structures Thierry Lallemang
for the elderly and operators of Commissioners
aid and active care networks in the
area of supervised housing for people Christophe Buschmann
the elderly, to set up a health protocol for Commissioner
accepted by the Health Department.
                                                        Marc Lemmer
                                                        Commissioner




                                                               281
6 APPENDICES




Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
data relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation government amendments to the draft
prescribing a general census of the population, Grand-Ducal regulations, adopted by the
Housing and Buildings of the Grand Duchy Council of Government in its meeting of 2
as of June 1, 2021 and government amendments. April 2021 (hereinafter the “amendments”).
(Deliberation n°23/AV18/2021 of June 1, 2021)
                                                                          The purpose of the draft regulations is to organize
                                                                          general population census,
                                                                          housing and buildings, which will take place on
                  In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, 8 November 2021. This census will be organized
                  letter c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, established and directed by the National Institute of Statistics
                  2016 relating to the protection of persons and economic studies in the Grand Duchy
                  with regard to the processing of data from Luxembourg (hereinafter “STATEC”) in accordance with
                  of a personal nature and freedom of movement in accordance with article 2 of the amended law of 10 July
                  this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/2011 on the organization of the National Institute
                  EC (general regulation on the protection of statistics and economic studies and
                  data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which the amended law of June 22, 1963 setting the
                  refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the salary regime for civil servants of
                  organization of the National Commission for the State (hereinafter the “amended law of July 10, 2011
                  protection of data and the general system governing the organization of STATEC” or the “law
                  on data protection, the Commission denies STATEC"), which provides that STATEC
                  national authority for data protection (here is the mission “to carry out the censuses
                  after designating the “National Commission” for population, housing and buildings,
                  or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the date and terms of these censuses
                  law of the Member State, the national parliament, being fixed by Grand-Ducal regulation”.
                  government and other institutions and
                  organizations about the legislative measures Moreover, it is clear from the explanatory memorandum that
                  and administrative procedures relating to the protection of “[t]he performance of this statistical operation
                  rights and freedoms of natural persons to fall under Regulation (EC) No 763/2008
                  with regard to the treatment”. of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9
                                                                          July 2008 regarding censuses
                  By letter dated April 2, 2021, Mr. Population and Housing, whose purpose is
                  Minister of the Economy invited the Commission object to establish “common rules for the
                  national to advise the major ten-year provision of comprehensive data
                  ducal prescribing a general census of population and housing”. Authors
                  the population, housing and buildings of the bill further specify that at the level
                  of the Grand Duchy on 1 June 2021 (hereinafter the national, article 4bis of the municipal law
                  “Draft Grand-Ducal Regulation”) as amended on 13 December 1988 provides that “[e]




                                                           282
n with a view to determining the number of members matter reserved for the law exceptions to the
of the communal council assigned to each guarantee by the State of the protection of life
common, it is proceeded, at least every ten private226.
years, in the census of the population of Grand-
Duchy of Luxemburg. The date and manner In addition, Article 32, paragraph (3), of the
of this census are fixed by regulation Constitution provides that “[in] the matters
grand-ducal (…)”. reserved to the law by the Constitution, the Grand
                                                                                 Duke cannot make regulations and orders
The draft Grand-Ducal regulation is based as soon as, by virtue of a specific legal provision
then on the said legislations. which sets the objective of the enforcement measures and the
                                                                                 where applicable, the conditions under which they are
Moreover, it appears from the explanatory memorandum that submitted”.
the novelty of this next census will be
the use by STATEC of a so-called census “Since the revision of October 18, 2016 of the said
combined”. The authors of the draft regulation article, "the Constitutional Court considers
grand-ducal specify that the census only in the matters reserved the elements
combined will be based on access, by STATEC, essential are in the domain of the law, while
to data contained in registers less essential elements can be
administrative and on data collected to be relegated to regulations and decrees taken by
through questionnaires in paper version the Grand Duke. She endorses the position
and in electronic version. This constituent census, shared by the Council of State,
"combined" will distinguish itself from the others which consists in ensuring the executive power
censuses carried out in the past, which has the power to regulate the details of the matters
made on the basis of data collected via a service, the principles and essential points
questionnaire in paper version. remaining within the domain of the law. According to the constitution
                                                                                 killing, simple framework laws fixing a few
It is therefore undeniable that the identification of major principles and abandoning the essential
which will soon be carried out by STATEC from the rules of substance and form to the regulations
raises issues relating to execution do not meet these requirements
data protection for which constitutional. If essential elements
the National Commission will formulate the are of the domain of the law, the measures of execution
comments below. tion, i.e. more technical elements
                                                                                 and details, may be within the domain of the
              I. Preliminary remarks Grand-Ducal regulatory power”227.

First of all, it should be noted that the article However, it is clear that both the article
11, paragraph (3), of the Constitution establishes in 2 of the amended law of July 10, 2011 on




226
      See in this sense M. Besch, Norms and legistics in Luxembourg public law, Vademecum, Larcier, Edition 2019, p.472, n°619.
227
      See M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Vademecum, Larcier, Edition 2019, p.37, n°19.



                                                                                           283
6 APPENDICES




    organization of STATEC that Article 4bis of Consequently, the CNPD considers that the role
    the amended municipal law of December 13 of the various actors involved in the
    1988 are limited to respectively setting out the census, the purposes of the processing, the
    that STATEC's mission is to "implement the principle of access by STATEC to registers
    administrative population, housing censuses as part of the census or
    and buildings, the date and terms of further use of the identification number
    these censuses being fixed by national regulation should be provided for in the law at the
    Grand Ducal” and that “[i]n order to determine the strict meaning of the term, and not in an act
    number of members of the regulatory municipal council229.
    assigned to each municipality, it is proceeded,
    at least every ten years, at the census II. On the processing of data at
    of the population of the Grand Duchy for statistical purposes
    Luxemburg. The date and terms of
    this census are set by regulation It should be noted that Article 2 of the draft
    grand-ducal (…)”. grand-ducal regulation lists the data
                                                                                     which would be collected for statistical purposes.
    Thus, the National Commission wonders
    if the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is The CNPD will make its comments below
    likely not to comply with with respect to the issues having
    aforementioned constitutional provision when it relates to data protection and which are
    would settle the essential points of a matter raised in the context of such processing.
    reserved for the law, in particular when it defines who
    is the data controller, the purposes 1. On compliance with the mo-
    of the processing that would be implemented, in this dification of July 10, 2011 relating to
    that it provides access to administrative organization files of STATEC to
    by STATEC, or even in what it provides for applicable rules in terms of
    the use of the national data protection identification number
    “with a view to the interconnection of the different
    administrative registers”228. It should be noted that the amended law of
                                                                                     July 10, 2011 on the organization of STATEC
    Therefore, should it not be ensured that it is of particular importance in the
    rigorous application of the framework principles for the organization of the census.
    above-mentioned normative with regard to the distinction This law regulates in particular the powers
    difference between what must, in essence, come under the control available to STATEC when it is
    law in the strict sense and what may be the subject of a requirement to carry out statistical operations,
    normative framework by a regulatory text as is the case under the
    to hush up ? census.




    228
          Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, explanatory memorandum, page 5.
    229
          See in this sense M. Besch, Norms and legistics in Luxembourg public law, Vademecum, Larcier, Edition 2019, p.472, n°619.



                                                              284
The authors of the draft regulation grand- to the provisions of the GDPR, it is appropriate to
ducal indicate that the provisions of the article question the conformity of the provisions
2 of the said law “would already constitute a basis for the organic law of STATEC with those of
legal sufficient to carry out the census Article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR (i) as well as
”230 and that STATEC “is empowered by the [law on the relationship between the provisions of
of 10 July 2011 organizing the aforementioned law with those of article 65 of the
of STATEC] (…) to access and use the sources law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the
for statistical purposes”231 or National Commission for the Protection of
although article 12 of the said law “stipulates that data and the general regime on the protection
in the choice of data collection mode, data (ii).
STATEC favors the use of files
administrative. It does not resort to surveys or i. On Article 6, paragraph (3),
censuses only if the use of GDPR files
administrative proves impossible or is not
not likely to provide information As noted above, the Commission
reliable and relevant statistics”232. national understands that the authors of the project
                                                                    grand-ducal regulations intend to repo-
Indeed, article 12 of the amended law of July 10 will apply to articles 12 and 13 of the amended law of
2011 on the organization of STATEC provides July 10, 2011 on the organization of STATEC
that “in the choice of the mode of collection of access by STATEC to the registers administered
data STATEC favors the use of data, referred to in Article 3 of the draft regulation
administrative files. Article 13 of the said Grand-Ducal law.
further provides that "public administrations
buildings, municipalities and establishments However, there is reason to wonder about the
public as well as all physical persons- compliance of the aforementioned provisions with
companies or legal entities are required to provide those of Article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR.
statistical information requested by the
STATEC within the deadlines set in its request” Indeed, it should be noted that this article
and that "in the context of the missions provided for in provides for a particular constraint linked to the legality
Article 2, STATEC has a right of access to data processing information necessary for the
information, even individual, contained in compliance with a legal obligation or the execution
the files and databases of the administrators of a mission of public interest or falling
rations and public services, collected in the exercise of the official authority which is
framework of their administrative attributions. invested the controller. In
                                                                    these two scenarios, the basis and the
However, insofar as the provisions for the purposes of data processing must
of the organic law of STATEC are prior specifically to be defined either by the law of



230
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, explanatory memorandum, page 7.
231
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, Ad article 3.
232
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, explanatory memorandum, page 7.



                                                                           285
6 APPENDICES




    the European Union, either by the law of the State, it is essential that the "law", in its acceptance
    member to which the person responsible for the material processing, uses fairly clear terms to indicate
    is submitted. tell everyone sufficiently in what
                                                                                    circumstances and under what conditions it
    In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifically empowers public authorities to use
    that it should “belong to Union law or measures affecting their rights protected by the
    the right of a Member State to determine the Convention, in this case the interference in the
    purpose of the processing. Moreover, this right to privacy protected by Article 8 of the Convention
    could specify the European general conditions of human rights”234.
    of this regulation governing the legality
    of the processing of personal data Thus, so that the lawfulness of the processing in the
    personnel, establish specifications for the public sector is ensured, it is necessary to have a
    to determine the data controller, national or supranational normative text which
    the type of personal data may bring an administration or a service
    the subject of the processing, the persons to have to process data to fulfill their
    concerned, the entities to which the missions235. If it is not necessary that a text
    personal data may be specifically described as data processing,
    communicated, the limitations of the purpose, “the purpose of the processing must however be
    the retention period and other specific measures, insofar as the text leading
    aimed at guaranteeing lawful and fair processing”. the administration to process data must
                                                                                    allow citizens to deduce the
    Recital 41 of the GDPR further specifies that the nature of the data and the purposes for which
    this legislative measure should be clear and these are used”236.
    precise and its application should be predictable
    for litigants, in accordance with the Or, it is clear that the provisions
    case law of the Court of Justice of the Union of Articles 12 and 13 of the amended law of 10
    European Union and the European Court of Rights July 2011 on the organization of STATEC
    of man233. do not appear to meet the requirements of
                                                                                    aforementioned provisions, in particular in that they
    Moreover, it appears from the work entitled “Standards do not meet the criteria of precision and
    and legalistic in Luxembourg public law” clarity to which a text of law must respond.
    that this case-law “still requires that
    the basis in domestic law is accessible to the ii. On the articulation of the provisions
    person concerned, who in addition must pro- positions of the organic law of the
    see to foresee the consequences for it, and STATEC with those of the article
    its compatibility with the rule of law. 65 of the law of August 1, 2018
    To meet the requirement of foreseeability, the organization of the Commission

    233
          In this sense, see M. Besch, Norms and legistics in Luxembourg public law, Vademecum, Larcier, Edition 2019, p.470, n°619, see among others
          CourtEDH, Zakharov v. Russia [GC], n°47413/06, § 228-229, 4 December 2015.
    234
          See M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Vademecum, Larcier, Edition 2019, p.469, n°619.
    235
          M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Vademecum, Larcier, Edition 2019, p.470, n°619.
    236
          M. Besch, Norms and legislation in Luxembourg public law, Vademecum, Larcier, Edition 2019, p.470, n°619.



                                                              286
national level for the protection concerned, special provisions and
                data and the g- derogations concerning the requirements
                law on data protection and privacy rights.
                arising from rectification, erasure, oblivion,
                                                    limitation of processing, to the portability of
As noted above, the organic data law and the right of opposition when the
of STATEC predates the GDPR, so personal data is processed at
that at the entry into force of the law of August 1 of archival purposes in the public interest, to
2018 on the organization of the Commission for scientific or historical research purposes
national authority for data protection and or for statistical purposes. The conditions and
general data protection regime. warranties in question may include
However, these last two legal texts provide for specific procedures allowing
specific measures regarding the processing of data subjects to exercise these rights
data for statistical purposes. if appropriate in view of the purposes of the
                                                    specific processing concerned, as well as
Indeed, in accordance with Article 89 of the technical and organizational measures
GDPR, the processing of personal data aimed at reducing to a minimum the processing of
personal data for statistical purposes is subject to personal data in accordance
to “appropriate safeguards for the rights to the principles of proportionality and
and freedoms of the data subject. these necessities.
guarantees guarantee the implementation of
technical and organizational measures, in particular With regard to the
in particular to ensure compliance with the principle of processing for statistical purposes, consideration
data minimization. rant 162 of the GDPR provides the following details
                                                    boasts “[w]hen personal data
As far as guarantees in front of personal are processed for statistical purposes,
be implemented by the person responsible for this Regulation should apply to this
processing, recital 156 of the GDPR sets out processing. Union law or the law of
that “[m]ember States should provide Member States should, within the limits of the
appropriate safeguards for processing this Regulation, determining the content
of personal data for statistical purposes, define the control of access to the
archives in the public interest, for given purposes and to lay down specific provisions
scientific or historical research or related for the processing of personal data
for statistical purposes. Member States staff for statistical purposes as well as
should be authorized to provide, in appropriate measures for the safeguarding of
specific conditions and subject to the rights and freedoms of the data subject and
appropriate safeguards for individuals to maintain statistical confidentiality. ".




                                                          287
6 APPENDICES




    Under Luxembourg law, article 89 of the GDPR, STATEC's mission is to "carry out the
    is transposed in article 65 of the law of 1 August population and housing censuses
    2018 on the organization of the Commission and the buildings, the date and the methods of
    national data protection authority, these censuses being fixed by regulation
    and the general regime on the protection of Grand Ducals”. Article 10 of the draft
    data which lists the appropriate measures Grand-Ducal regulation further specifies that
    additional measures that must be implemented “[t]he census is organised, directed,
    during such treatment. compiled and checked by STATEC” and
                                                          Article 16 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
    Thus, in view of the foregoing, the CNPD states that "[t]he municipal administrations
    asks to what extent the arrangements and the enumerators comply with the
    of chapter 2 of the aforementioned law of August 1, 2018 circulars and instructions issued by the
    must be consistent with the provisions of the STATEC law concerning the execution of this
    amended of July 10, 2011 on the organization of the regulations”.
    of STATEC.
                                                          STATEC would thus be qualified as
                 2. On the role of the various data controllers within the meaning of Article
                    reviewers involved in GDPR 4(7) as it determines the
                    ment purposes and means of the processing that would be
                                                          implemented as part of the census
    It emerges from the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, despite the fact that it would in reality come down to the
    that different actors will be involved in legislator or government to determine
    the census, namely STATEC (i), the purposes and means (see above in
    municipalities and enumerators (ii) and point II.1.i).
    CTIE (iii).
                                                          The CNPD regrets that the text under opinion does not
    In the absence of specific provisions in the not expressly states that STATEC would have
    text under opinion, it is necessary to analyze their role as controller. Such
    from a data protection point of view, clarifications should be made in
    that is to say, to determine whether the various players the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, for a
    aforementioned act as responsible for the better understanding of the text under review.
    contractor or subcontractor.
                                                                      ii. On the role of municipalities and
                 i. On STATEC's role of enumerators

    Article 2 of the amended law of 10 July 2011 With regard to the role of municipalities and
    on the organization of STATEC stipulates that enumerators within the framework of the




                                              288
implementation of the census, Article 10 of the municipal draft to check the documents
of the Grand-Ducal regulation provides that "[o]n being submitted by these enumerators and to proceed,
the municipal plan, the census is carried out if necessary, with the necessary adjustments.
by enumerators under the direction and Necessary instructions are provided
surveillance of colleges of mayors by STATEC agents during debriefing sessions
and aldermen. The latter designate the online training agents organized especially for
enumerators. The municipalities ensure this effect. Note that compensation for
completeness of the enumeration on the enumerators will be supported by
ground ". This article further specifies that “[t]he STATEC”238.
he municipalities refrain from adding to
STATEC questionnaires any other question Finally, as previously stated, the
in any form." municipalities and the enumerators "
                                                                    comply with circulars and instructions
The authors of the draft regulations issued by STATEC concerning the execution
ducal specify in the commentary of the present regulations”239.
articles that “[i]f the general organization, the
examination of the questionnaires as well as the Insofar as the municipalities act on
publication of the results are within the scope of STATEC's instructions and process data to be
competences of STATEC, operations of a personal nature on behalf of STATEC,
collection of data in the field require the latter to be qualified as sub-
the intervention of municipal authorities. processors within the meaning of Article 4(8) of the GDPR.
In particular, municipalities will be required
to check that all the people having Concerning the role of the subcontractor, there are
their main residence on their territory, and it should be recalled that the provisions of
who have not responded electronically, article 28 of the GDPR will have to be respected and
be invited to participate in this census so that, in accordance with said article, the sub-
through the distribution of a paper questionnaire dealing with “does not process personal data
through a census taker. They will only be able to staff on documented instruction
not add any other questions or collections from the data controller” and “ensure that
information other than that provided in the that the persons authorized to process the
framework of this Regulation. »237. personal data undertake
                                                                    to respect confidentiality or be
The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation subject to an appropriate legal obligation
further specify that "it is up to the municipalities to maintain confidentiality".
recruit enumerators responsible for the
distribution and collection of questionnaires The CNPD also understands that the agents
paper. It is also incumbent on the enumerators would act under the authority of the counties.



237
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, Ad Article 10.
238
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, explanatory memorandum, page 6.
239
      Article 16 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                                           289
6 APPENDICES




    common. The provisions of article 29 of the collect data on behalf of the STA-
    GDPR240 would therefore also be TEC or, where applicable, for their own account.
    ter. iii. On the role of the CTIE

    Nevertheless, the CNPD wonders whether this According to the explanatory memorandum, one of the novelties
    qualification of subcontractor of the municipalities of the next census will be the possibility of
    is likely to apply when responding to electronic questionnaires
    ci collect documents entitled “the state via “MyGuichet.lu”. It appears from the draft
    summary “Census districts Grand-Ducal regulation that this interface
    “QR””241 and “Electoral Sections “SE””242 digital was set up by the CTIE in
    which in particular allow municipalities to collaborate with STATEC243.
    to certify the number of resident persons
    by electoral section. The CTIE therefore seems to act as a sub-
                                                                                  processing within the meaning of Article 4(8) of the GDPR.
    Indeed, these provisions seem to derive
    of articles 4bis and 5ter of the municipal law of Concerning the role of the subcontractor, it is necessary to
    December 13, 1988, as amended. recall that the provisions of Article 28 of the
                                                                                  GDPR will have to be respected. In accordance with audit
    In its opinion of February 1, 2021 relating to the draft article, the CTIE, as a subcontractor, must
    of the Grand-Ducal regulation, the Syndicate of processing "the personal data that
    Cities and Municipalities of Luxembourg indicates on documented instruction of the person in charge
    moreover, that if “the municipalities are strongly on the treatment” and will have to ensure “that the
    involved in carrying out the census persons authorized to process the data to be
    general of the population (…) [t]his is explained personal character undertake to respect
    no doubt by the fact that, in accordance with the confidentiality or are subject to a
    Article 4bis of the amended municipal law appropriate legal obligation of confidentiality”.
    of 13 December 1988, fixing the number
    of members of municipal councils is 3. On the collection of categories
    based on the number of inhabitants determined particular data
    through a decennial census.
                                                                                  Under section 2 of the draft regulation
    Therefore, for better readability of the Grand-Ducal text, STATEC will collect in particular
    under opinion, it would be appropriate to clarify the role of information relating to "the situation of
    municipalities within the framework of the family census”244, “the links between the different
    in order to make it possible to distinguish when these members of the household”245 or “the situation


    240
          Article 29 of the GDPR provides that “[t]he processor and any person acting under the authority of the controller or under that
          of the subcontractor, who has access to personal data, cannot process this data, except on instructions from the person responsible for the
          processing, unless required to do so by Union law or the law of a Member State. ".
    241
          Article 9, point 5°, of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    242
          Article 9, point 6°, of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    243
          Article 7 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    244
          Article 2, 1° letter k) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    245
          Article 2, 1° letter l) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                            290
possible disability”246. Insofar as and specific for the safeguard of rights
these data are likely to reveal fundamentals and interests of the person
data concerning health or data concerned”.
concerning sex life or sexual orientation
of the registered person, these data In addition, it should be noted that article 64 of the
are to be qualified as special categories of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the
data, known as “sensitive data” in the sense of the National Commission for the Protection of
of Article 9 of the GDPR. data and the general regime on the protection
                                                                                    of data provides that “[t]he processing
Such processing requires protection of special categories of data
specific247 and are subject to personal requirements as defined in Article
more stringent. The processing of “data 9, paragraph 1 of the [GDPR], can be put in
sensitive” is, in fact, prohibited unless one of the works for the purposes provided for in Article 9,
conditions referred to in paragraph (2) of Article 9 paragraph 2, point j) of the same regulation,
GDPR is fulfilled. if the data controller fulfills the
                                                                                    conditions of section 65.
In the present case, the National Commission
asks whether the processing will be based on Article 65 of the law of 1 August 2018 lists the
9, paragraph (2), letter j), of the GDPR which provides additional appropriate measures that must
that "the processing is necessary for the purposes to be implemented by the person responsible for the
archives in the public interest, for processing purposes when the latter is required to process
scientific or historical research or to personal data for the purposes
for statistical purposes, in accordance with the statistics article.
89(1) based on EU law
or the law of a Member State which must be In the absence of details in the draft
proportionate to the objective pursued, comply with Grand-Ducal regulations and in the commentary
the essence of the right to data protection and the articles on the appropriate measures
provide for appropriate and specific and specific measures for the safeguard of the rights
for the safeguard of fundamental and fundamental rights and interests of the person
of the interests of the data subject”, or on the data subject which would, where appropriate, be taken
Article 9, paragraph (2), letter g), of the GDPR which by STATEC, the CNPD is not able
provides that “the processing is necessary to assess whether the conditions of Article 9,
grounds of important public interest, on the basis of paragraph (2), letter j) or g), of the GDPR would be
Union law or the law of a Member State fulfilled in the present case.
which must be proportionate to the objective pursued,
respect the essence of the right to the protection of As regards the issue of
data and provide for appropriate measures the articulation of the aforementioned provisions with




246
      Article 2, 1° letter p) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
247
      See the cases rendered by the CJEU of April 8, 1992, C-62/90, point 23 and of October 5, 1994, C-404/92, point 17.



                                                                                               291
6 APPENDICES




    those of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, it is and established files referred to in Article 1, paragraph
    referred to above in point II of this opinion. (1), letter b) may contain the number
                                                                identification, provided that it is
    In any case, the authors of the project reserved for use for administrative purposes
    of Grand-Ducal regulation should ensure internal relations between the State and the
    good consistency between all the municipalities or relations with the holder of the
    aforementioned provisions as well as providing numbers”.
    appropriate and specific measures for the
    safeguarding fundamental rights and Gold, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides
    interests of the data subject. that the national identification number would be
                                                                processed by STATEC for statistical purposes and not
                        4. On the collection of the number for internal administrative purposes, such as this
                           of national identification is provided for by the aforementioned article 2.

    Finally, the CNPD considers that the use of the
    Grand-ducal regulation that the identification number- national identification number within the framework
    national cation within the meaning of the amended law of 19 of the census should be framed by a
    June 2013 relating to the identification of legal persons (see points I and II above).
    physical will be collected during the census at
    for statistical purposes248 and in order to “combine the 5. On access to administrative registers
    different sources of data between them”249. nitives
    This would be collected directly by the
    STATEC via access to the National Register of The authors of the project of
    Individuals (hereinafter the “RNPP”). grand-ducal regulation on details
                                                                provided by section 3 of the draft regulation
    If the National Commission understands that the Grand Ducal as to the origin of the data to be
    the national identification number would be personal. This article provides, in
    necessary for the quality of the statistics carried out that “[t]he census is based on
    in the context of the census, there are however data from administrative registers as well as
    note that the amended law of June 19 that those collected through questionnaires
    2013 relating to the identification of the persons who will be merged”.
    physical framing the use of the number
    national identification card does not provide for such This article further specifies that when the
    data processing. data is not collected via registers
                                                                administrative, the rest of the information, referred to
    Indeed, article 2, paragraph (2), of the law in article 2 of the draft grand-ducal regulation,
    mentioned above provides that “[t]he deeds, documents will be collected using the questionnaire




    248
          Article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    249
          Article 4 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                          292
“private household” or using the natural person questionnaire provides that “[t]he
“collective household”. These questionnaires will be data or lists of data appearing in
available in electronic version or in the national or communal register cannot be
paper version. communicated to third parties. This prohibition
                                                                              does not target the authorities, administrations,
Although it is appropriate to welcome the details of services, institutions or authorized bodies,
made by section 3 of the draft regulation by or under the law, to obtain such
Grand-Ducal with regard to the categories of data given or lists of data and this for
that would be collected via these files, the information to which this
National Commission is keen to provide the authorisations”.
considerations below.
                                                                              The National Commission is pleased that
                    i. On access to the RNPP such details are provided, all the more so
                                                                              more than the provisions provided for in Article
It should be noted that article 4, paragraph 13 of the amended law of 10 July 2011 on
(1), of the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the organization of STATEC251 are written
the identification of natural persons in a vague manner (see above in point II of the
provides that “[t]here is established a national register this notice).
the purpose of which is: (…) the provision
data of natural persons to ii. On the registers of the Center Com-
responsible for the files of the municipal social security organizations and
public within the limits of the legal missions of Buildings and Housing
these organizations or, provided that the data
be anonymized for statistical purposes. It follows from Article 3 of the draft regulation
                                                                              grand-ducal that STATEC will have access to
Clarifications as to the scope of these registers of the Joint Social Security Center
provisions are made by the draft law and in the register of buildings and dwellings.
No. 6330 relating to the identification of persons If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the draft
natural persons, in the national register of persons Grand-Ducal regulation for having specified the
physical, to the identity card, to the registers categories of data which would be collected
of natural persons, through such registers, certain details
from which it appears that the “register will allow merit to be made.
also to compile statistics about
population in Luxembourg”250. Indeed, it is not clear from the
                                                                              provisions under notice if STATEC will have a
In addition, article 41 of the amended law on direct access to the register of the Joint Center
June 19, 2013 relating to the identification of social security insofar as


250
      Bill n°6330, parliamentary document n°6330/00, Ad Article 4, page 23.
251
      Article 13 of the amended law of 10 July 2011 on the organization of STATEC provides that "STATEC has a right of access to information
      individual, contained in the files and databases of the administrations and public services, collected within the framework of their
      administrative powers”.



                                                                                       293
6 APPENDICES




    article 3 of the draft grand-ducal regulation then this should
    provides that the data will be "taken from being expressly reflected in the draft
    Common Social Security Center through Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion.
    the General Inspectorate of Social Security.
                                                                                                  iii. Final remarks
    No details regarding this access are
    however provided by the authors of the draft It should be noted that in its opinion of 9
    grand-ducal regulation in the March 2021 commentary on the draft grand-ducal regulation
    articles. If it is therefore access by ducal, STATEC specifies that it “will continue,
    STATEC on the register of the Joint Center for the in the coming years, its efforts to
    social security or a communication from to collect as much information as possible
    data by the General Security Inspectorate through administrative registers in order to
    social at STATEC? reduce the statistical burden of people
                                                                                      identified”252.
    The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
    should clarify this. If this is STATEC's will, it is imperative
                                                                                      tif that specific provisions as to the
    With regard to the register of Buildings access which would be provided to various registers ad-
    and Housing, it should be noted that they comply with the provisions
    appears from the explanatory memorandum that this current legal register applicable in matters of
    was “created and maintained by STATEC on the basis of data collection, as noted in the de-
    of the 2011 census. The Commission develops above in point II of this opinion.
    national understands that STATEC would accede
    therefore to one of its own files. 6. On security measures

    As such, it should be recalled that the holding In accordance with Article 5, paragraph (1), letter
    of a personal data file f), of the GDPR the personal data
    collected and processed by a state authority must be "processed in such a way as to guarantee
    must be based on a legal basis in accordance with appropriate data security
    in Article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR. CNPD personnel, including protection against
    refers on this subject to its developments above unauthorized or unlawful processing and against the
    in point II of this opinion. original loss, destruction or damage
                                                                                      accidental, using technical measures
    Finally, if files were to be created by the appropriate organizational(s) (integrity and
    STATEC, like the Buildings and confidentiality register)”.
    Housing, based on data
    collected as part of the draft Article 32 of the GDPR further provides that "the




    252
          Page 5 under point 3 entitled “Use of administrative registers”.



                                                                 294
controller and processor use that differs from the purposes for which
implement technical measures this data is processed.
and organizational structures in order to
guarantee a level of security adapted to the In addition, it is necessary to provide a
risk ". Such measures should be put in the access logging system. So
implemented in order to avoid point access in particular, the CNPD recommends that the data
unauthorized access to data, logging leaks are retained for a
unwanted data or changes. period of five years from their registration,
                                                       period after which they are erased, except
If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the project when they are the subject of a procedure of
of Grand-Ducal regulation to have provided for an inspection.
prohibition to “relevant officials,
enumerators as well as to any person The CNPD also stresses the importance of carrying out
collaborating in census work or proactively carrying out internal controls. In this
in connection with such work, to disclose, of effect, it is appropriate in accordance with Article 32,
disseminate or use for other purposes and of any paragraph (1), letter d), of the GDPR to put
the information and implements a procedure “aimed at testing,
data they come to know in analyzing and regularly evaluating the effectiveness
the performance of their mission or their technical and organizational measures
intervention”253, however, it is essential only to ensure the safety of the treatment”.
such security measures are implemented
implemented by STATEC and the administrations whose With regard to the collection of data
the data is accessed as part of via paper questionnaires, STATEC
its access to the various administrative files, should also ensure compliance with the
provided for in Article 3 of the draft regulation, the aforementioned provisions when the collection
Grand-Ducal, in order to ensure the confidentiality and the said questionnaire is done by the
data security. municipalities or enumerators.
In this context, it is strongly recommended Finally, with regard to the questionnaires
to define a policy for managing electronic access, which would be accessible via the
in order to be able to identify the "MyGuichet.lu" platform from the outset, STATEC should
person, and to what precise data this also ensure all the provisions
no one would have access. of the aforementioned Article 32 and ensure that the CTIE,
                                                       as a subcontractor, takes all
It is also recalled that such access would require measures required under the aforementioned article.
be limited to people who need it
know within the framework of their function. From 7. About the shelf life
even that this access must not allow any of the data




253
      Article 17 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                              295
6 APPENDICES




    According to Article 5, paragraph (1), letter e), of the In the absence of details on this subject in
    GDPR, personal data not the draft Grand-Ducal regulation and in
    should not be kept any longer the commentary to the articles, the Commission
    than necessary for the achievement of national purposes is not in a position to assess
    for which they are collected and processed. if, in this case, the principle of duration of
    Beyond that, the data must be deleted Limited data retention would be
    or anonymized. respected.

    The draft Grand-Ducal regulation no. 8. On the rights of persons
    does not specify the retention period of the data
    data that would be collected for the purposes
    statistics, nor what would be the criteria to According to Article 5, paragraph (1), letter (a), of the
    take into account in order to determine such GDPR, the personal data
    duration. must be processed lawfully, fairly and
                                                         transparent to the person concerned
    However, it should be noted that the article was born (principle of lawfulness, loyalty, transparency).
    16 of the amended law of July 10, 2011 on
    organization of STATEC provides that “[l] This principle implies in particular that STATEC
    hen the accomplishment of its missions or must respect the provisions of article 13 of the
    the statistical purposes pursued require GDPR for data collected directly
    the use of statistical unit data from the data subject, otherwise those
    identifiable, the processing is carried out in accordance with Article 14 of the GDPR, when the data to be
    respect for fundamental rights and freedoms personal character were not collected
    of the persons concerned. Access to these from the data subject himself,
    data is reserved for people only, i.e. those collected in particular via
    responsible for compiling these statistics. As soon as access to administrative records.
    the identification of statistical units and any
    particularly natural persons Under these articles, the person responsible
    is no longer necessary in the processing chain must provide the person
    production of statistics, the data will be concerned with information about the
    anonymized”. processing concerning it, in particular for
                                                         ensure fair and transparent treatment.
    In accordance with the aforementioned provisions It is specified that in the case of article 14 of the
    should it therefore be understood that the GDPR data, this information will have to be provided
    will be anonymized as soon as they are disclosed to the data subject no later than one month
    will no longer be necessary "in the chain of after the controller has
    production of statistics”? got the data.




                                           296
Furthermore, Article 89, paragraph (2), of III. On the use of the number
GDPR provides that “[w]here national identification data “to
personal character are processed for the purposes of data merging purposes
scientific or historical research or from administrative registers.
statistical purposes, Union law or tax laws and questionnaires
of a Member State may provide for electronic or paper derogations”
the rights referred to in Articles 15, 16, 18 and 21,
subject to the conditions and guarantees Article 3 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, provides that the data collected would be
insofar as these rights would risk being "combined with each other through the number
make impossible or seriously impede identification and residence address”. At this
the achievement of the specific purposes and where subject, the authors of the draft regulation
such derogations are necessary for ducal specify in their commentary of the
achieve these ends”. articles that "the data taken from the registers
                                                                    and alternative sources (questionnaires
Article 63 of the law of 1 August 2018 electronic or paper) are merged into
on the organization of the Commission using identification numbers
National Data Protection Authority. These mergers are carried out in a manner
and the general regime on the protection of automated systems”254.
data further states that “[w]hen the
personal data are processed at It is further apparent from Article 4 of the draft regulation-
purposes of scientific or historical research, only Grand Ducal identification number
or for statistical purposes, the national leader would be collected in order to “combine the
of the processing may derogate from the rights of the different sources of data among themselves” 255 .
data subject provided for in Articles 15, The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
16, 18 and 21 of the [GDPR] insofar as these specify in the commentary to the articles
rights may make it impossible or that such a national identification number
to seriously hinder the realization of raits “for the purpose of merging data from
specific purposes, subject to putting administrative records and questions
put in place appropriate measures such as electronic or paper media”256.
referred to in Article 65”.
                                                                    However, it should be noted that, in the former
If the authors of the draft regulation grand- stated reasons, the authors of the draft regulation-
ducal intend to derogate from the rights of ment grand-ducal use terminology
data subjects in accordance with the different and refer to the "use of the number
aforementioned provisions, this should be specified national identification for interconnection
obligatorily in the text under opinion. of the various administrative registers”257.


254
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, Ad Article 3.
255
      Article 4 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
256
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, Ad Article 4.
257
      Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, explanatory memorandum, page 3.



                                                                           297
6 APPENDICES




                        1. On the notion of “interconnection” of administrative data and data
                                                                                     from the questionnaires and this through the ‘key
    However, with regard to the term “inter-census”, unique key which is indicated by
    connection”, it should be remembered that in male enumerators on the checklists
    the concept and on the questionnaires”.
    of “interconnection”258 means that the
    ments are linked and may In addition, in its opinion of March 9, 2021 relating to the
    be managed by the managers of the various draft Grand-Ducal regulations, STATEC in-
    treatments concerned. However, as it says that "[t]he fusion of data from the
    does not seem to be the case in this case, the CNPD administrative registers and questionnaires
    understands that STATEC wishes to put this will be facilitated because, unlike the “cour-
    common, by technical means, postal mail", the enumerator must indicate on
    data collected via administrative registers - each questionnaire a “census” key
    tives and questionnaires (in paper form and unique per person. This key, allowing the
    electronic). fusion of administrative data and those
                                                                                     from individual-level questionnaires
    For greater clarity and in order to avoid any confusion, will be used in addition to the matricule
    confusion, care should be taken to use one so that this data fusion is optimal.
    uniform terminology on this subject. This data fusion is a key step
                                                                                     in the success of the population census
                        2. On the link between the number tion. Without this fusion, the collected data will not
                           national identification number and the will not be usable and STATEC will not be able
                           “Census key” meet regulatory obligations
                                                                                     European".
    As noted above, "the data drawn
    registers and alternative sources However, in the absence of precision as to the elements
    (electronic or paper questionnaires) are what would constitute this “census” key, the
    merged using numbers National Commission wonders what would be the
    national ID. These merges are link between this key and the identification number
    carried out in an automated manner”259. national, both of which aim to
                                                                                     merge the data collected as part of
    However, it is still apparent from the census draft.
    Grand-Ducal regulation that “[t]he role of
    enumerators is essential because, in addition, is this key made up of a number
    the distribution of paper questionnaires, random ro assigned to a person enumerated or
    it improves the participation rate is it made up in part of the identity number
    and to make the link between the data from the national fication of the person listed?


    258
          The initial version of the law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data,
          now repealed, defined in Article 2, letter (j) interconnection as: “any form of processing which consists of the correlation of
          data processed for a purpose with data processed for the same or related purposes by one or more controllers”.
    259
          Draft Grand-Ducal regulation, Ad Article 3.



                                                               298
Clarifications on this subject should be part of the Grand-Ducal regulation derogating from the
provided by the authors of the draft regulation provisions of the aforementioned Article 16.
grand-ducal.
                                                         If it should first be recalled that a
             3. Grand-ducal regulations cannot derogate from a
                data law, the CNPD is still wondering about the criteria
                                                         which would justify that the identification number
According to Article 5, paragraph (1), letter e), of the GDPR, national, residence address, name and
personal data must not be kept for a maximum of three
be kept longer than necessary years after the census date?
for the achievement of the purposes for which
they are collected and processed. In the absence of details on this subject in the
born must be deleted or anonymized. the commentary on the articles, the Commission
                                                         national authority is not in a position to assess whether, in
It should be noted that Article 4 of the present draft, the principle of retention period
Grand-Ducal regulation stipulates that the limited number of data would be respected.
identification, residence address, name
and the first name "will be deleted as much as possible. Details on this subject should be
three years after the date of the census”. made by the authors of the draft regulation
                                                         grand-ducal.
However, article 16 of the amended law of 10
July 2011 on the organization of STATEC dis- Thus decided in Belvaux on June 1, 2021.
posits that “[w]hen the fulfillment of his
missions or statistical purposes pursued The National Commission for the Protection of
require the use of data from statis- given units
identifiable ticks, the treatment is done in the
respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of Tine A. Larsen
persons concerned. Access to this data President
is reserved for persons responsible
to compile these statistics. As soon as the identification Thierry Lallemang
statistical units and especially Commissioner
natural persons is no longer necessary
in the statistics production chain, Christophe Buschmann
the data will be anonymized”. Commissioner

The National Commission therefore includes Marc Lemmer
that the provisions of article 4 of the draft Commissioner




                                                                299
6 APPENDICES




Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to draft law no. 7836 amending According to the explanatory memorandum, this draft law
of the amended law of July 17, 2020 on control measures aims to propose new relaxations
against the Covid-19 pandemic. compared to current measures
(Deliberation n°24/AV19/2021 of June 8, 2021) applicable under the aegis of the amended law of
                                                                           July 17, 2020 on measures to combat
                                                                           the pandemic and which find their basis
                                                                           in the current epidemiological situation and
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, in the generally favorable development of
                   letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27 evaluation indicators.
                   2016 relating to the protection of persons
                   with regard to data processing Article 3 of bill no. 7836 intends to introduce
                   of a personal nature and the free circulation of a system of self-diagnostic tests
                   these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ mandatory for screening for SARS-
                   EC (general regulation on the protection of CoV-2 for staff members, pres-
                   data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which external service providers and visitors
                   refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to persons over the age of six in establishments
                   organization of the National Commission for Hospitals, as well as in certain structures
                   data protection and the general regime and services that host or supervise
                   on data protection, the Commission for the elderly and disabled. under
                   national authority for data protection (herein of paragraphs (1) paragraph 3 and (2) paragraph 3 of the said
                   after designating “the National Commission” in article 3, the persons concerned may not
                   or “the CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the access to their workstation, to provide
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, services or to visit a patient, a
                   the government and other institutions and resident or user if the test result
                   organizations about self-diagnosed legislative measures is positive or whether people
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of data subjects refuse or are unable to
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons to present one of the required certificates.
                   with regard to the treatment”.
                                                                           The commentary to the articles states that
                   As of June 4, 2021, the Minister of Article 3 of Bill No. 7836 is inspired by the
                   Health has seized the National Commission of a bill n ° 7808 of the honorable deputy
                   request for an opinion on bill n°7836 Michel Wolter. Thus, the CNPD would like to refer
                   amending the amended law of 17 to the comments made in its opinion
                   July 2020 on the measures to combat the of May 28, 2021 concerning specifically the
                   Covid-19 pandemic (hereinafter the "bill of law proposal no. 7808 of Mr.
                   No. 7836"). Amendments have been sent Deputy Michel Wolter relating to the strategy of
                   dated June 8, 2021. screening for the Covid-19 virus in the structures




                                                            300
for vulnerable people and in the networks result is negative, proceed to treatment
assistance and care.260 personal data.

The CNPD had wondered, among other things, whether Moreover, although these issues do not
processing of personal data does not fall within the scope of data protection.
would be carried out by the employer or data operator, the CNPD wondered, in terms of
of one of the structures and services mentioned in labor law, on the consequences of a
following the presentation by a visitor, a refusal by an employee or a service provider
employee or an external service provider, external service to submit to such
of the negative or positive result of the antigen test obligations.
rapid or Covid-19 PCR test, a certificate
of vaccination or a test certificate of Thus decided in Belvaux dated June 8, 2021.
serological screening proving the presence
anti-coronavirus antibodies in the blood. The National Commission for the Protection of
                                                                              data
This observation is also consistent with
the framework of the “Covid Check regime” defined at Tine A. Larsen
Article 1 point 28 of this bill President
No. 7836 in the sense that the CNPD questions
whether establishments welcoming a public or Thierry Lallemang
organizing demonstrations or events Commissioner
whose entrance is exclusively reserved for
people who can claim either one of the Christophe Buschmann
certificates as referred to in Articles 3bis, 3ter, Commissioner
3quater of Bill No. 7836, or a test
self-diagnosis used to screen for Marc Lemmer
SARS-CoV-2 virus carried out on site and for which the Commissioner




260
      Deliberation no. 20/AV16/2021 of 05/28/2021: https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/20201/20-AV16-PL7808-depistage-covid19.html.



                                                                                        301
6 APPENDICES




Additional opinion of the National Commission for
data protection relating to the draft regulation
                                                                                            grand-ducal, adopted by the Council of
Grand-Ducal prescribing a general government census in its session of 2 April 2021 .261
population, housing and buildings
of the Grand Duchy on November 8, 2021. By letter dated June 11, 2021, Mr.
(Deliberation n°25/AV20/2021 of 2/07/2021. Minister of the Economy invited the Commission
                                                                                            to notify government amendments
                                                                                            standards, adopted by the Governing Council
                                                                                            ment in its meeting of June 11, 2021 (hereafter the
                  In accordance with Article 57, paragraph (1), “amendments”).
                  letter c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27
                  2016 relating to the protection of persons 1. Ad Amendment 1
                  with regard to data processing
                  of a personal nature and to the free movement of The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
                  these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ specify in the commentary to Article 2,
                  EC (General Data Protection Regulation as amended, that the processing of data
                  data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which the said article refers and which concern the life
                  refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the sexuality or sexual orientation of a person
                  organization of the National Commission for Physics will be dealt with on the basis of Article 9,
                  data protection and the general regime paragraph (2), letter j), of the GDPR.
                  on data protection, the Commission
                  National Data Protection Authority (here) If such details are to be welcomed, the CNPD
                  after having been designated, the “National Commission” reiterates its observations made in its opinion
                  or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the of June 1, 2021 as to the appropriate measures
                  law of the Member State, the national parliament, additional which will have to be implemented
                  the government and other institutions and by STATEC when the latter is required to process
                  bodies about legislative measures of such data for statistical purposes262 as well as
                  and administrative measures relating to the protection of as well as to the problem relating to the articulation of
                  rights and freedoms of natural persons to the provisions of the law of 1 August 2018 establishing
                  with regard to the treatment”. organization of the National Commission for
                                                                                            data protection and the general regime on
                  On June 1, 2021, the CNPD notified the data protection project, with those of the project
                  grand-ducal regulation prescribing a grand-ducal regulation263.
                  general population census,
                  housing and buildings of the Grand Duchy 2. Ad Amendment 2
                  as of June 1, 2021 (hereinafter the “draft regulation
                  grand-ducal”) as well as amendments The purpose of this amendment is to introduce
                  governments to the draft regulation a new article 3 which provides that “[t]he

                  261
                        Opinion of the Data Protection Commission on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation prescribing a general census of
                        population, housing and buildings in the Grand Duchy on 1 June 2021 as well as government amendments to the draft
                        Grand-Ducal regulation, deliberation n°23/AV18/2021 of 1 June 2021.
                  262
                        See point II. 3., page 10.
                  263
                        See point II.1., page 5.



                                                                       302
census will collect for administrative purposes implement such processing. In this case, the CNPD
the following information: understands that STATEC will collect such
                                                                               data because these will be necessary for the
a) surname and first name; purposes of the proper organization of the census.

b) the identification number within the meaning of the Mo- In addition, the use of the identification number
of June 19, 2013 relating to the identification of national fication “for administrative purposes
people. internal”, as referred to in Article 2, paragraph
                                                                               (2), the amended law of June 19, 2013 relating to
This information will only be used for the identification of natural persons, is to
combine data from administrative registers understand, for example, such as the use
as well as those collected through the questions- by an administration of the registration number of one of its
ners”. administered as part of the treatment of his
                                                                               case.
In the commentary to the new article 3, the
authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation Therefore, the National Commission asks
specify that these data would be used "uniquely - if the terminology used, to designate the
ment” to combine the different administrative registers provided for by the new article 3, reflects the
purposes and that no statistical use of purposes which would actually be pursued
these data would not be provided by STATEC. by STATEC in such a context.

For a better understanding of the device In any event, the terminology used
under notice and to the extent that STATEC will be too vague and does not comply with the requirements
the controller, there should be clarity, precision and predictability
to replace the term “census” by the to which a legal text must respond,
“STATEC”. in accordance with the case law of the Court
                                                                               of Justice of the European Union and of the Court
With regard to the data listed in the European Human Rights Act264.
points a) and b) of the aforementioned article, which would be
now collected for administrative purposes In addition, with regard to the use of the
by STATEC (and not for statistical purposes), there is a national identification number, the CNPD
instead of questioning the meaning of such purposes. reiterates its comments made in its
                                                                               opinion of June 1, 2021 according to which it
It should be recalled that the purposes of a consider that, in the absence of a legal basis
processing of personal data appropriate in the amended law of June 19, 2013
correspond to the objective pursued by the relating to the identification of natural persons
responsible for the treatment when this one puts siques, the use of the identification number



264
      In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229,
      December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.



                                                                                         303
6 APPENDICES




    national as part of the census should “this in order to be consistent with article 16 of the law
    be regulated by law. amended on July 10, 2011 on the organization
                                                                  of STATEC. The conditions mentioned in
                   3. Ad Amendment 3 this article are even stricter than those
                                                                  being in the law of STATEC because these
    There is reason to congratulate the authors of the project of operations must be carried out within the
    Grand-Ducal regulation to have modified the article three years from the date of the census”.
    3, paragraph 3, of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
    following the observations made by the CNPD Although the authors of the
    in its opinion of 1 June 2021. draft Grand-ducal regulation to have taken
                                                                  into account the considerations of the CNPD in
    Just as the National Commission welcomes its opinion of 1 June last, the criteria, which justify
    details provided by the authors of the project would like the data to be deleted
    of Grand-Ducal regulation, according to which within the period of 3 years, are not indicated
    “[T]ATEC will not have direct access to the text of the draft grand-
    Common Center register. Only ducal data or in the comments of the article.
    mentioned will be provided to STATEC by
    the General Inspectorate of Social Security. Therefore, in the absence of such details, the
                                                                  National Commission is unable
                   4. Ad Amendment 4 to assess whether, in this case, the principle of
                                                                  limited data retention period
    The purpose of this amendment is to modify the ar- would be respected.
    Article 4, last paragraph, of the draft regulation
    Grand-Ducal in these terms “[o]nce these two For the remainder and with regard to the
    operations completed, this information will be the retention period of the data processed at
    deleted as soon as the identification of statistical losses and purposes not covered by Article
    physical sounds is no longer necessary in the aforementioned, it is worth reiterating the observations
    the statistics production chain. formulated by the CNPD in its aforementioned opinion266.
    This deletion of data must be
    made within three years after the date of 5. Ad Amendment 5
    census so that no nomi-
    native does not appear in the computer file sta- There is reason to salute the authors of the
    bli based on census data. ". Grand-Ducal Regulation for specifying the
                                                                  elements that make up the identification key.
    According to the authors of the draft regulation
    grand-ducal, this amendment takes into account In addition, although article 9 of the draft
    remarks by the National Commission and Grand-Ducal regulations, as amended by




    265
          See points I.1., page 2 and II.4., page 12.
    266
          See point II.7., page 16



                                                          304
amendment 5, provides that “[t]his key provided for in article 10 of the draft regulation
technique is unique per person, does not allow the Grand Ducal that STATEC will have the quality of
not to find the registration number and is not used as controller within the meaning of Article 4,
only for administrative purposes", no details in point 7), of the GDPR.
as to the link which would unite this key and the number
national identification number was provided by the Nevertheless, details as to the roles of the
authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. municipalities, enumerators and the CTIE,
                                                      were not provided by the authors of the project
However, STATEC in its opinion of March 9, 2021 of the Grand-Ducal regulation. Therefore, the CNPD
relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation had reiterated on this subject its observations made
indicated that this key would allow “the merger in its opinion of June 1, 2021267.
administrative data and data from
questionnaires at individual level, will be In addition, this amendment introduces a new
used in addition to the registration number so that paragraph 4 of article 6 of the draft regulation
this data fusion is optimal. This Grand-Ducal who specifies that the municipalities
data fusion is a key step in taking advantage of the census "in order to control,
the success of the population census. by their own means, the completeness
Without this merger, the data collected would not be part of their population register", while
will not be usable and STATEC cannot provide that the data collected by these
meet the obligations of the latest regulations, in the context of the census, do not
European". cannot be used "to update
                                                      their population register.
Therefore, in the absence of such details,
the CNPD is not in a position to seize the Gold, although the principle of non-reuse
possible problems that could arise from the data collected by the municipalities,
ask from the point of view of the protection of in the context of the census, now appears
data. to the aforementioned article, there is reason to wonder about the
                                                      means that would enable municipalities to
Furthermore, insofar as this key would constitute a check on the completeness of their register
a unique identifier, she wonders if one of the population, if not precisely by the
such a key would not be analyzed as a "reuse of the data that the latter
new number”. will collect as part of the census.

               6. Ad Amendment 6 7. Ad Amendment 7

The authors of the draft are to be congratulated. This amendment responds to comments by
Grand-Ducal regulation to have the National Commission expressly formulated in its




267
      See point II.2., page 7.



                                                             305
6 APPENDICES




    opinion of June 1, 2021 and proposes the introduction of the law, in particular when it defines who is the
    a new article 21, the purpose of which is to specify the controller, the purposes of the
    the derogations that would be made to the processing that would be implemented, insofar as it
    rights of data subjects. provides access to administrative files by the
                                                          STATEC, or in that it provides for the use
    Nevertheless, in accordance with the principle of the national identification number268.
    hierarchy of legal norms, which imposes the
    parallelism of forms, of such provisions, Thus decided in Belvaux on July 2, 2021.
    who intend to derogate from the rights of persons
    concerned, as provided for in article 63 of the The National Commission for the Protection of
    law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of data
    National Commission for the Protection of
    Tine A. Larsen data and general protection regime
    data, should be included in a law and President
    not in a Grand-Ducal regulation.
                                                          Thierry Lallemang
    The National Commission reiterates Commissioner
    all of its observations made
    in its opinion of June 1, 2021 relating to its Christophe Buschmann
    questions about the compliance of the project Commissioner
    of Grand-Ducal regulation to the provisions of
    articles 11, paragraph (3) and 32, paragraph Marc Lemmer
    (3) of the Constitution, while it would regulate Commissioners
    essential points of a subject reserved for




    268
          See point I, page 2.



                                           306
Additional opinion of the National Commission for
                                                                             data protection relating to amendments
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1,
                                                                             government to bill no. 7126 relating to
letter (c) of Regulation (EU) n°2016/679 of 27
                                                                             municipal administrative sanctions and release
April 2016 relating to the protection of persons
                                                                             skills of municipal officials.
with regard to data processing
of a personal nature and free movement (Deliberation n°26/AV21/2021 of July 9, 2021)
of such data, and repealing Directive
95/46/EC (general regulation on the protection
data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which
refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 This opinion will be limited to questions
on the organization of the Commission relating to aspects of the protection of
national for the protection of data and personal data raised by
general data protection regime, amendments 6 and 14 to the bill.
the National Commission for the Protection of
data (hereinafter referred to as “Committee I) Ad Amendment 6
Nationale” or the “CNPD”) “advises,
in accordance with Member State law, Although Amendment 6 does not change
the national parliament, the government and paragraph (1) of article 7 of the draft
other institutions and bodies about the law regarding the official's access
legislative and administrative measures sanctioner in the national register of
relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals, the CNPD would like to reiterate
of natural persons with regard to its considerations formulated in its opinion
treatment ". of December 7, 2018, according to which “the
                                                                             sanctioning official should have
On December 7, 2018, the CNPD notified the project access only to relevant data
Law No. 7126 on sanctions administered in the exercise of its powers,
municipal regulations amending 1) the Code pé- i.e. to the data mentioned in
nal, 2) the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 3) the law the file of administrative sanctions
amended municipal law of December 13, 1988, and not to other data
(hereinafter the “draft law”)269. included in the national register of
                                                                             natural persons (such as, for example,
By letter dated April 19, 2021, Madam data concerning the family of the person
the Minister of the Interior invited the Commis- sion concerned)”.
national union to notify the amendments
Governments to the bill, approved II) Ad Amendment 14
approved by the Government Council in its
meeting of April 2, 2021 (hereinafter the "amendment- Amendment 14 aims to delete the
lies”). provisions of Chapter 7 of the draft law relating



269
      Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to draft law no. 7126 on administrative sanctions
      municipal laws amending 1) the Penal Code, 2) the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 3) the amended municipal law of December 13, 1988, deliberation of the
      No. 490/2018 of December 7, 2018.



                                                                                      307
6 APPENDICES




    in the registers of administrative sanctions In this respect, it should be recalled that the
    municipalities, which provided for the creation of three holdings of a personal data file
    files. personal collected and processed by an authority
                                                                                  administrative must have a legal basis
    Indeed, Articles 18 and 19 of Chapter 7 pre- in accordance with Article 6, paragraph (3), of the
    cited provided respectively that the GDPR271.
    sanctioning officer keeps a "file of
    offenses whose findings are transmitted to it” This article provides for a particular constraint
    and that the municipalities and the Grand-Ducal Police linked to the legality of a data processing neces-
    maintain an “administrative sanctions file necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or
    tives”. for the performance of a task in the public interest or
                                                                                  relating to the exercise of public authority, of which
    The deletion of the aforementioned articles, by is invested the person in charge of the treatment. In
    the authors of the bill, follows these two cases, the basis and the purposes
    observations made by the Council of State of data processing must speci-
    in its opinion of 28 November 2017 as well as being defined either by Union law
    in its additional European opinion of October 23, or by the law of the Member State
    2018, according to which it considers that “the to which the controller is subject.
    matter is sufficiently regulated by the regulations
    (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies
    Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection of that it should "[...] belong to Union law
    natural persons with regard to the processing or the right of a Member State to determine
    personal data and the purpose of the processing. Moreover, this right
    free movement of such data, and repealing could specify the general conditions
    Directive 95/46/EC”270 and that this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the
    to omit the aforementioned articles 18 and 19. processing of personal data,
                                                                                  establish the specifications aimed at determining
    However, the CNPD had, on the contrary, in its opinion the data controller, the type of
    of December 7, 2018, welcomed that the draft personal data subject to
    law intended to provide for the principle of the creation of the processing, the persons concerned, the
    such registers, in accordance with Article 6, entities to which the personal data
    paragraph (3), GDPR. staff can be communicated, the


      See “examination of the articles”, Article 18, page 13 of parliamentary document n°7126/04, and “examination of the amendments”, Amendments 21 and 22,
    270

      page 9 of parliamentary document n°7126/09.
      Article 6 paragraph (3) provides that: “The basis of the processing referred to in paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:
    271

    To. Union law; Or
    b. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.
      The purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in paragraph 1, point e), are
      necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the person responsible for the
      treatment. This legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, between
      other: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the controller; the types of data that are the subject of the
      treatment; the people concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated and the purposes for which
      which they can be; purpose limitation; retention periods; and processing operations and procedures, including
      the measures aimed at guaranteeing lawful and fair processing, such as those provided for in other specific processing situations such as
      provides for Chapter IX. ".



                                                           308
limitations of the purpose, the retention period Thus and despite the deletion of the provisions
and other measures aimed at guaranteeing a aforementioned, the National Commission includes
lawful and fair processing. […]”. that such registers would still have
                                                                               intended to be held by the official
Recital 41 of the GDPR further specifies the sanctioner, the municipalities and the Police
that this legislative measure should be grand-ducal, as those responsible for the
clear and precise and its application should be processing of said records.
foreseeable for litigants, in accordance
to the case law of the Court of Justice of For the sake of legal certainty, the
the European Union and the European Court CNPD therefore regrets that the text under opinion does not
of human rights. does not retain such provisions and considers it necessary
                                                                               necessary that the provisions of Articles 18 and 19
Under the aforementioned provisions, these bases of the bill are retained, while they
legal provisions should establish provisions providing for the creation of such files. These of-
specific aims to determine, among other things, will also contain the elements mentioned above.
the types of data processed, the persons
concerned, the entities to which the data For the rest, the CNPD reiterates its
may be communicated and for which observations made under point II of its
purposes, data retention periods notice of December 7, 2018.
or even the operations and procedures of
treatment. Thus decided in Belvaux on July 9, 2021.

Therefore, in order for the lawfulness of the processing in The National Commission for the Protection of
the public sector is ensured, it is necessary to have data
a national or supranational normative text
which can bring an administration or a Tine A. Larsen
service to have to process data for President
fulfill its missions. If one doesn't have to
text specifically prescribes treatment Thierry Lallemang
of data, “the purpose of the processing must Commissioner
however, be precise, insofar as the
text leading the administration to deal with Christophe Buschmann
data must enable citizens to act as a Commissioner
deduce the nature of the data and the purposes for
which these are used. Marc Lemmer
                                                                               Commissioner

272
      In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619. See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n°47413/06], § 228-229,
      December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.
273
      M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Standards and legislation in Luxembourg public law,
      Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619.
274
      M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Standards and legislation in Luxembourg public law,
      Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619.



                                                                                         309
6
Additional opinion of the National Commission for
                                                           APPENDICES




data protection relating to bill n° 7348
relating to inactive accounts, inactive safes
                                                                           the financial sector; and 2. the amended law of 7
and dormant insurance contracts and amending:
                                                                           December 2015 on the insurance sector
1. the amended law of 23 December 1998 creating a (the “draft law”)275.
Financial Sector Supervisory Commission ; and 2. the law
amended on December 7, 2015 on the insurance sector. On July 2, 2021, Mr. Director of the
(Deliberation n°27/AV22/2021 of August 6, 2021) Treasury, on behalf of the Minister of Finance,
                                                                           forwarded amendments to the CNPD
                                                                           governments to the bill for their opinion.

                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, The CNPD welcomes the changes made by
                   letter (c) of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 of 27 amendments 16 and 18, to articles 28 and
                   April 2016 relating to the protection of persons 32 of the bill, which now specifies
                   physical with regard to data processing that the necessary data can be
                   of a personal nature and the free movement of collected by the Caisse de Consignation, this
                   these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ which it had advised in the aforementioned opinion.
                   EC (general regulation on the protection of
                   data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which Amendment 16 is further intended to specify the
                   refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the procedures for transmitting the request
                   organization of the National Commission for consignment at the Caisse de Consignation.
                   data protection and the general regime Following the amendment, Articles 28 and 32
                   on data protection, the Commission provides that the transmission of the request
                   national authority for data protection (here- of recording as well as information and
                   after designating the “National Commission” additional documents must be done “by
                   or the "CNPD") "advises, in accordance with the electronic filing on a platform
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, a secure state”. The National Commission
                   the government and other institutions and recalls that in any case, measures
                   organizations about legislative technical and organizational security measures
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of appropriate data must be put in place
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons to this platform, in accordance with Article 32
                   with regard to the treatment”. of the GDPR.

                   On February 1, 2019, the CNPD advised The CNPD still welcomes the amendment
                   bill no. 7348 relating to accounts 18, which aims to specify the content of the register and
                   inactive, to inactive safes and to contracts which adds a paragraph 6 to article 32
                   dormant insurance and amending: stipulating that the consignment fund is
                   1. the amended law of 23 December 1998 concerning the consideration of being responsible for the
                   creation of a processing monitoring commission within the meaning of Article 4. 7) of the GDPR of




                   275
                         Parliamentary document 7348/02.



                                                             310
processing implemented on the basis of the article Thus decided in Belvaux on August 6, 2021.
in question, as she had suggested in
his opinion. The National Commission for the Protection of
                                                    data
It regrets, however, that the authors of the
amendments did not see fit by Tine A. Larsen
follow up on the other points raised by the President
CNPD, in particular concerning processing
of personal data carried out Thierry Lallemang
by establishments and companies Commissioner
of insurance, the retention period of
data processed by Marc Lemmer managers
processing and transmission of data to Commissioners
and between public bodies. She reiterates
when the recommendations made in its opinion
from February 1, 2019.




                                                          311
6
Additional opinion of the National Commission
                                                  APPENDICES



for data protection relating to the amendment
parliamentarian to bill n° 7643 on data
Open Data and Reuse of Industry Information to Data Bill 7643
public and relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation open and the reuse of information
establishing objective, transparent and public sector criteria (hereinafter the "draft law"),
verifiable to calculate the total amount of royalties adopted by the Digitalization Commission,
for the supply and permissions to reuse the Media and Communications of the
documents held by the organizations of the Chamber of Deputies sector during its meeting of 18
public and public enterprises. June 2021.
(Deliberation n° 28/AV23/2021 of 6/08/2021)
                                                                          The single amendment seeks to introduce a
                                                                          paragraph 5 to article 4 of the bill
                                                                          providing for the establishment of a single portal
                  In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, grouping all the documents made available
                  letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27 provision for reuse purposes in order to
                  2016 relating to the protection of persons respond to a formal opposition from the Council
                  physical with regard to the processing of State data. The commentary of the amendment
                  of a personal nature and to the free movement of also explains that in addition to "documents
                  such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC available for reuse",
                  (hereinafter the “general protection regulations must also appear on the portal” the
                  data” or the “GDPR”), to which any conditions including the standard licenses
                  refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018, as well as any compensation for this
                  organization of the National Commission for reuse”.
                  data protection and the general regime
                  on data protection, the Commission The commentary to the amendment continues
                  national authority for data protection (hereby indicating that “[i]n regards to the
                  after designated the “National Commission” other formal objections issued by
                  or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the Council of State in its opinion of 1 June
                  law of the Member State, the national parliament, 2020 with regard to Articles 4, 7 and 12, the
                  the government and other institutions and Commission of Digitalization, Media
                  organizations regarding Legislation and Communications has decided to follow the
                  and administrative matters relating to the protection of High Corporation proposals.
                  rights and freedoms of natural persons
                  with regard to the treatment”. The Council of State further considered that Article
                                                                          13(2) of the bill does not require
                  By letter dated July 1, 2021, Mr. no transposition insofar as he has
                  the Minister of Communications and Services specifically relates to the implementing acts which
                  Media invited the National Commission to come under the jurisdiction of the Commission
                  vote on the European parliamentary amendment.




                                                           312
The Committee on Digitization, the Media The parliamentary amendment does not raise
and Communications has decided to follow up on another specific issue from a
the opinion of the Council of State on this point and a, by data protection, and refers for
therefore, deleted paragraph 2 in addition to its opinion of January 20, 2021.
question.
                                                    Thus decided in Belvaux on August 6, 2021.
After analyzing the amended article 13, the
However, the Commission noted that following The National Commission for the Protection of
to this modification, there is also place data
to adapt the reference to paragraphs “2,
3 and 4” provided for in Article 13, paragraph 1, Tine A. Larsen
point 1°, to reflect the new President numbering
subsequent paragraphs, namely
"2 and 3". »Thierry Lallemang
                                                    Commissioner
The National Commission recalls that in all
case, the applicable rules in matters Marc Lemmer
of data protection, and in particular the Commissioners
principles provided for in Article 5 of the GDPR, must
be respected in the context of the operation of the
single portal.




                                                          313
6
Second additional opinion of the National Commission
                                                                     APPENDICES




for data protection relating to the bill
No. 7425 on arms and ammunition and bearing: 1°
                                                                               relating to the control of the acquisition and
transposition of Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the Parliament
                                                                               possession of weapons; 2° modification of the Code
European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 on the control
                                                                               penal, and 3° repeal of the law of 20 April
the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2nd amendment
                                                                               1881 regarding transportation and trade
of the Penal Code, and 3° repeal of the law of 20 April 1881 on explosive materials (hereinafter the "draft
concerning the transport and trade in matters of law”)276.
explosive.
(Deliberation No. 29/AV24/2021 of October 1, 2021) On February 4, 2021, the Commission
                                                                               National Council issued its additional opinion on
                                                                               government amendments adopted
                                                                               by the Committee on Justice during its
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph (1), meeting of May 27, 2020277.
                   letter c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27
                   2016 on the protection of individuals On July 13, 2021, the Justice Commission
                   with regard to the processing of data adopted a series of amendments by Parliament
                   of a personal nature and the free movement of comments relating to the bill (hereinafter the
                   this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/"amendments").
                   EC (general regulation on the protection of
                   data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which Insofar as the amendments concern
                   refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on articles of the bill that have been commented on
                   organization of the National Commission for by the CNPD and that the latter was not
                   protection of data and the general regime seized for opinion, it self-seizes in order to share
                   on data protection, the Commission for its comments below.
                   national authority for data protection (here
                   after designated the “National Commission” 1. Ad amendment n°22
                   or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, Amendment n°22 modifies paragraph (1)
                   government and other institutions and clause 14 of the bill, in that it
                   bodies about legislative measures replaces the notion of “reputability” with the
                   and administrative regulations relating to the protection of the concept of “dangerousness”, and inserts a new
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons in paragraph (3) of Article 14.
                   with regard to the treatment”.
                                                                               The authors of the amendments bring
                   On July 8, 2019, the CNPD informed the still, in their commentary, of the details
                   Bill No. 7425 on: 1° transposition of certain questions raised by
                   of Directive (EU) 2021/555 of the Parliament the Council of State in its additional opinion
                   European Parliament and of the Council of 24 March 2021 of 19 December 2020.




                   276
                         Deliberation n°42/2019 of July 8, 2019.
                   277
                         Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021.



                                                                       314
A. On the replacement of the notion Insofar as the term “good repute”
                  “reputability” by the notion of has been replaced by the term “dangerousness”
                  “dangerousness” in article 19 (approval of employees and
                                                                               collaborators of gunsmiths) and in article 24
Article 14 paragraph (1) of the bill was of the bill (granting of authorizations to
amended as follows: “Permissions, per- individuals), it would like to reiterate the observations
put and approvals provided for by this law are as follows, formulated in its opinion of 4
issued by the Minister to persons only in February 2021, “[n]evertheless, the reference to the
who, given their behavior, the notion of “good repute” could appear
their mental state and their relevant history with regard to the approvals that
judicial or police, do not give rise to fear would be issued by the Minister to gunsmiths or
that they are likely to present as brokers, said approvals being a prerequisite
a danger to themselves or to others to access such professions. As such, it is
trui, for public order or for security clarified that in France the notion of “honourability
public tee. A conviction for one” is used for anyone wishing
violent intentional offense is considered to be “carrying out the activity which consists, as a principal
dered as an indication of such or accessory, either in the manufacture, the
hazard. trade, exchange, rental, hire-
                                                                               sale, loan, modification, repair or
The amended provisions have been made the transformation, either in negotiation or
"in accordance with the Board's observations, the organization of operations with a view to the purchase,
of State and for the reasons mentioned by the Haute of the sale, supply or transfer
Corporation”. arms, ammunition or parts thereof”.
                                                                               However, this concept is not taken up
The Council of State had, in particular, estimated for the people wishing to acquire or
in its additional opinion of December 19 to possess a weapon. Indeed, article L.312-3-
2020 that the good repute criterion is 1 of the French Internal Security Code
“difficult to transpose to verification provides that “[t]he administrative authority may
the ability of a person to possess or prohibit the acquisition and possession of weapons,
wield a weapon”. ammunition and their components of categories
                                                                               A, B and C to people whose behavior
The National Commission agreed with the opinion raising fears of a dangerous use for
of the aforementioned Council of State “solely in themselves or for others”. The Commission
that it is not relevant to use the national notion will return in more detail to the
of “good repute” to assess whether a reference made to the notion of good repute in
individual has the required aptitude for Luxembourg legislation in his opinion
possess or handle a weapon”. on bill no. 7691, which aims to harmonize




278
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 8, point I, 1, A, b, ii.



                                                                                      315
6 APPENDICES




    and specify the different procedures of certain periods in terms of guarding.
    “good repute check” currently However, the considerations to be taken into account
    provided for in several laws. »279. account in granting or refusing
                                                                          of weapons authorizations are
                  B. On the proposal made by the materially different and not pursuing
                     Council of State in its opinion the same objective. ".
                     above-mentioned complementary according to
                     which he proposes the mechanism Moreover, they believe that "this approach
                     of a detailed opinion issued by raises many other questions: In the case
                     the State prosecutor and transmitted a positive opinion from the Public Prosecutor's Office, is it
                     to the Minister that the latter would then be exempted from any
                                                                          provision of information to the Minister, so
    It appears from the commentary of the amendment that the latter could not even follow the
    n°22 that the proposal of the Council of State of a logic and the reasoning on which the opinion
    "mechanism of a detailed opinion" would not positive be based? And in the case of a notice
    been followed by the authors of the amendments. negative, what would be the information that
                                                                          the Public Prosecutor's Office should then provide the Minister? He
    The latter propose, in fact, to maintain it must not be forgotten that the plaintiff
    the approach of providing information to obtaining a weapons license has
    Minister of Justice “even if it means surrounding him with the right, in the event of refusal of his request, to
    all the required and necessary conditions, seize the administrative courts with a view to
    rather than adopting the approach of a notice to rescind the refusal. How do jurisdictions
    provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office", without however specifying the administrative authorities, could they then assess
    what should be understood by “conditions if the refusal of the Minister is justified or not, if the
    required and necessary”. Minister cannot provide the courts
                                                                          administrative information and facts being
    Do they explain their questions and the reasons behind their decision? Added to it again
    origin of such a position. The latter that, just taking into account the Service
    thus argue that "this way of doing things only Weapons & Guarding and without considering
    would hardly be likely to solve the problems all the laws in force in Luxembourg
    which arise. The Public Prosecutor's Office, legitimately, which require the assessment of good repute
    would issue this opinion on the basis of the principles which or of a dangerousness before the granting of a
    govern the advisability of prosecution, that is - administrative authorization, the Public Prosecutor's Office would be
    i.e. considerations drawn from the probably overwhelmed scope of requests for advice,
    and the seriousness of the disturbance to public order, which would in fact prevent him from devoting
    victim compensation, etc. Its main activity is the pursuit
    moreover what he had done during one of the criminal offenses. The law project




    279
          Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 26, I, 6.



                                                                    316
No. 7691, which still only concerns the laws on the Public Ministry and the SRE. Such a mechanism
being within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the would avoid duplication of
Justice, allows you to get an idea of the number of data concerning criminal records
very important opinion of which the Public Prosecutor's Office would be an applicant while allowing the Minister
then seized, if we opted for this approach of obtaining the necessary information and
the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office in all matters. ". relevant, in the form of an opinion, in order to
                                                                          to assess the "respectability" of a
However, on this point, the CNPD had questioned itself, in plaintiff. Such a mechanism still has
its additional opinion of February 4, 2021, if the advantage that the administrative inquiry would be
such an administrative investigation would not have been entrusted to a repressive authority, the Ministry
consequence of generating “a public duplication, and not to an administration. In effect,
background information such an authority would be more appropriate for
legal proceedings of a person in the hands of conducting such an investigation given the nature of the
different authorities. Indeed, the Commission processed data. »281.
national understands that some of the
data contained in the files kept Furthermore, the National Commission reiterates
by the Grand-Ducal Police, by the Ministry also its observations relating to the model
public or the SRE will have to appear French and Belgian who have both adopted a
again in a file maintained by the similar approach282.
minister” 280.
                                                                                 C. On the insertion of a new paragraph 2
Thus, it wishes to reiterate its considerations in paragraph 3 of Article
following “[a]n order to avoid duplication 14 of the bill
such data and keeping some kind of
new “double register” by the minister for It appears from the commentary to the amendment
persons concerned by the draft law, No. 22 that “it is proposed to add another
CNPD considers that a less intrusive method restricting the facts that can be communicated
to achieve the same goal should be up to the Minister by inserting a new paragraph 2
preferred to the system currently provided for in paragraph 3, aimed at excluding facts which,
the authors of the bill. It rallies, thus, although corresponding to points 1° to 3°
to the proposal made by the Council of State in the first paragraph of paragraph 3, have been
its additional opinion of December 19 of an acquittal, a pardon or
2016 according to which he proposes the mechanism of a prescription. This amendment aims to
of a detailed opinion issued by the prosecutor to respond to a question from the Council of State.
of State and forwarded to the Minister. This mechanism The hypothesis of a dismissal has not been taken up here,
would replace the communication to the Minister when these facts can be the subject of a
of information by the Grand-Ducal Police, resumption of information on new charges,



280
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 8, I, 1, A, b, ii.
281
      ibidem.
282
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 8, I, 1, A, b, iii.



                                                                                 317
6 APPENDICES




    in accordance with Articles 135 to 136 of the Code but state the reasons why this
    of criminal procedure, so that these facts exchange of information is necessary.
    must also be able to be taken into account Without prejudging the need for such an exchange
    as part of the administrative information procedures, the National Commission
    concerning the authorizations provided for by the grette, however that its considerations
    this bill. ". formulated in its opinion of February 4, 2021
                                                                                      have not been taken into account and holds, as soon as
    It is appropriate to congratulate the authors of the amendments, to reiterate them284.
    ments for having provided such details.
                                                                                                 E. Final remarks
    However, in the absence of categories
    of data that would be communicated In general, it is regrettable that
    to the Minister, the CNPD is not in a position to answer all the questions raised in
    to assess whether the principle of minimizing the additional opinion of February 4, 2021 of the
    data would be respected in this case. CNPD have not been taken into consideration.

    On this point, it refers, in general, Thus, in addition to the reiterations formulated above,
    to its developments relating to the principle of it regrets that the current text does not allow
    minimization of data formulated in its not to the data subjects of “com-
    additional opinion of February 4, 2021283. determine the extent and scope of the investigation
                                                                                      administrative, would it not be preferable to
                  D. On the exchange of information expressly state in article 14 new
                     between the Service Armes & Gar- that the data collected during the investigation
                     management and the Administrative Intelligence Service come from the files kept
                     government by the Grand-Ducal Police, the Public Prosecutor
                                                                                      or the ERS? »285.
    It should be noted that paragraph (6) of
    article 14 of the bill concerning the exchange As well as “like the provisions pre-
    of information between the Service Armes & Vues in article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) of the law
    Guarding and the Intelligence Service of February 22, 2018 relating to the exchange of dona-
    the state remains unchanged. personal data and information
                                                                                      in police matters286, should we not provide
    The authors of the amendments bring in the bill under opinion only the data
    no more details on this subject in transmitted to the Minister, for investigation purposes
    their comments on the administrative amendment n°22, can only be used


    283
          Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, I, 1, F.
    284
          Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, I, 1, F, b.
    285
          Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 10, I, 1, B.
    286
          Article 26 paragraphs (2) and (3) provides that: “(2) The data and information transmitted may only be used by the administration
          for the purpose for which they were transmitted. They are erased as soon as their conservation is no longer necessary with regard to the purpose
          for which they were transmitted. (3) Further transmission of data and information by the State administration to a third party
          person requires the prior written consent of the person referred to in Article 18, paragraph 1, who transmitted the data and information
          concerned. Where applicable, Article 6(3) shall apply”.



                                                               318
for the purpose for which they were trans- Finally, the National Commission still regrets
put and frame the transmission, the case that no clarification has been made, neither in
where appropriate, by the Minister to another administration- as regards the retention period
tion/ to a third party? »287. data obtained as part of the
                                                                   verification of good repute290, nor with regard to
In addition, and as the CNPD had noted, concerns the competent supervisory authority
in its aforementioned opinion, with regard to the to control and monitor compliance with the
processing of personal data legal provisions provided for by article 14 of the
relating to criminal convictions and bills291. It therefore reiterates the whole
offenses or related security measures, its observations thereon.
safeguards should be provided “in
the bill whereas in the current state of the For the surplus, the CNPD refers to its opinions of the 8
device under notice, the persons concerned July 2019 and February 4, 2021 mentioned above.
will see a duplication of their data
relating to criminal convictions or to Thus decided in Belvaux on 1 October
offenses at the hands of several authorities. 2021.
The collection of such data during the survey
administrative could lead to the holding of The National Commission for the Protection of
of a kind of new “double locker” by the data
minister. This would have, where appropriate,
at the end of the investigation of the copy of reports of Tine A. Larsen
police, excerpts from minutes, judgments, President
or “necessary information”
provided by the SRE”288. Thierry Lallemang
                                                                   Commissioner
The same is true with regard to the
treatments of special categories by Christophe Buschmann
data for which, the CNPD considers, Commissioner
in accordance with Article 9, paragraph (2), of the
GDPR, which the bill should provide for Marc Lemmer
“appropriate and specific measures for Commissioner
safeguarding fundamental rights and
interests of the data subject”. He is
referred to the considerations raised in
its opinion of 4 February 2021289.




287
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 11, I, 1, C
288
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 12, I, 1, D.
289
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 12, I, 1, E.
290
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, I, 3.
291
      Deliberation n°2/2021 of February 4, 2021, page 17, I, 5.



                                                                          319
6 APPENDICES



Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7818 amending
of the Consumer Code for the purposes of transposition
of 1. Directive (EU) 2019/770 of the European Parliament invited the National Commission to decide
                                                                           on draft law no. 7818 amending
and of the Board of May 20, 2019 relating to certain aspects
                                                                           of the Consumer Code for the purposes of
regarding content supply contracts
                                                                           transposition of 1. Directive (EU) 2019/770 of
digital and digital services; 2. the directive (EU)
                                                                           European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May
2019/771 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 relating to certain aspects concerning the
2019 on certain aspects relating to contracts for the supply of digital content
sale of goods, amending Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and the and of digital services; 2. the directive (EU)
Directive 2009/22/EC and repealing Directive 1999/44/EC. 2019/771 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(Deliberation n°30/AV25/2021 of 1/10/2021) of May 20, 2019 relating to certain aspects
                                                                           concerning contracts for the sale of goods,
                                                                           amending Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and the
                                                                           Directive 2009/22/EC and repealing Directive
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, 1999/44/EC (hereinafter the "draft law").
                   letter (c) of Regulation (EU) n°2016/679 of 27
                   April 2016 relating to the protection of persons According to the authors of the bill, “[t]he main
                   with respect to the processing of data objective of these guidelines is to promote the
                   of a personal nature and to the free movement of creating a real digital market
                   such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ in the interest of both consumers and
                   CE (general regulation on the protection of companies by eliminating the main
                   data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which there are obstacles related to contract law that hinder
                   refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on cross-border trade”. Authors
                   organization of the National Commission for the bill indicate that the guidelines
                   data protection and the general regime “provide for rules of harmonization
                   on Data Protection, the Maximum Commission”. The two directives to be transposed
                   authority for data protection (herein “are based on article 114 of the Treaty on the
                   after designated the “National Commission” functioning of the European Union, whose
                   or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the main objective is to improve
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, the establishment and functioning of the
                   government and other institutions and internal market” and fit into the
                   organizations on legislative measures “Strategy [of the European Union] for a
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of the digital single market”.
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons
                   with regard to the treatment”. According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill
                                                                           “on the one hand, in-depth reform of the rules
                   By letter dated April 13, 2021, Madame relating to the compliance of movable property
                   the Minister for the Protection of Bodily Consumers of the Chapter relating to the legal guarantee




                                                            320
compliance with the Consumer Code” digital content292 and will limit its
and “carries, on the other hand, introduction of observations to the legal provisions
new provisions concerning contracts concerning the concrete implementation of
provision of digital content or this directive in national law having a
of digital services. The authors of the potential impact on the protection of
bill further explain that the draft personal data.
law introduces “specific provisions
for goods comprising elements Update of "smart goods"
digital (smart goods such as According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft law
smartphones, connected watches, introduces “specific provisions for
digital tablets, e-readers etc.) goods containing digital elements
particularly with regard to their upgrades (the ‘smart goods’ such as smartphones,
day ". Then, according to the authors of the connected watch project, digital tablets,
law, the “new provisions concerning e-readers etc.) in particular with regard to
contracts for the supply of digital content their updates”.
or digital services […] meet
to the unique feature that the supply of Thus, the new article L.212-16, paragraph 2, of the
digital content or digital service Consumer Code provides that
may take place […] in exchange […] for the
provision by [the consumer] of data “[t]he trader shall ensure that the
personal”. Finally, the consumer project is informed of the updates
of law “subsequently puts in place the updates, including security updates,
remedies, and their terms, in the event of default which are necessary to maintain the
supply, non-compliance or even compliance of the digital content or the
modifications of the digital content or digital service, and receives them during
digital services. of the period […]”

Insofar as this bill Similarly, the new articles L-212-3, paragraph
transposes into national law the directive (EU) first, letter d), L-212-4, paragraph 3, and L-212-
2019/770 and Directive (EU) 2019/771 16, paragraph 2, of the Consumer Code
cited above, the National Commission refers provide for similar obligations and concepts
with regard to the legal framework of this regarding updates and updates
directive to safety notice 4/2017 of March 14, 2017.
of the European Protection Supervisor
(hereinafter the “EDPS”) on the The CNPD welcomes the introduction of such provisions
proposal for a directive concerning certain positions which allow optimum use
aspects of contracts for the supply of these goods comprising elements



292
      https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/17-03-14_opinion_digital_content_en.pdf
      See also: Summary of the opinion on the proposal for a directive relating to certain aspects of contracts for the supply of digital content.
      Official Journal of the European Union, 2017/C 200/07, 23 June 2017.



                                                                                        321
6 APPENDICES




    digital. These provisions clarify, inde- what content would normally serve
    pending other rules such as digital decou- or a digital service of
    in particular of the GDPR, obligations of the same type. […]”
    professional in connection with the supply of a
    such good. In the same vein, recital 50
                                                         of Directive 2019/770 explains that
    However, the National Commission would like to
    recall that in addition to “When they apply the rules of the
    this obligation, when the use of the goods in this directive, the professionals of
    question involves data processing that really uses standards, specifications,
    of a personal nature, article 32 of the GDPR cations open techniques, good
    provides for stand-alone practical obligations and codes of conduct, including
    security measures, in particular that the understanding with regard to the formats of
    "controller and processor data commonly used and legible
    implement technical and machine measures to extract content other than
    appropriate organizational arrangements to ensure that personal data, which
    a level of security appropriate to the risk”. To this was provided or created by the consumer
    regard, it should be noted that the recital when using digital content
    30 of Directive 2019/771 specifies in fine that or of the digital service, and including
    “[t]his Directive should not have those relating to the security of systems
    impact on the obligations to provide IT and digital environments
    of the security updates planned by the United States, whether they are established at the level
    elsewhere in Union or international law, at Union level or at
    national ". sector level. »

    Recital 48 of Directive 2019/770 Thus, in the context of the provision of
    further explains that goods and services involving processing of
                                                         data, the lack of implementation of measures
       “[…] a breach of adequate security obligations (given the state of
       arising from Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of art) by the data controller or
       could, at the same time, make the content by the subcontractor under their obligations
       nu digital or the digital service resulting from the GDPR could if necessary
       unsuitable for the intended purpose and, consequently, constitute a lack of conformity with the criterion
       quence, constitute an objective lack of conformity of a good comprising
       to the objective criterion of conformity which requires digital elements, even if the
       that the digital content or service contracted with the consumer remains silent on the
       digital is suitable for the purposes of- updating the digital elements.




                                           322
The supply of digital content or the professional does not process this data
of digital services in exchange for the for another purpose. »
provision of personal data
The authors of the bill specify in In the commentary to the articles, the authors
the explanatory memorandum presented by this passage as “[g]reat
                                                     novelty and unprecedented provision of the directive
   “the bill introduces dis- 2019/770, contracts by which instead of
   new positions concerning contracts pay a price, the consumer provides data
   supply of born digital content of a personal nature falls within the scope
   or digital services. These contracts implement this subsection. »
   respond to the unique feature that
   the supply of digital content or Nevertheless, the new article L.212-12, paragraph
   of the digital service can take place no 8 of the Consumer Code indicates that:
   only in exchange for payment
   of a price by the consumer, but also “European Union law on
   ment of the provision by the latter of the protection of personal data
   personal data”. personal applies to all data
                                                        of a personal nature processed in connection with
Thus, the new article L-212-12, paragraph 1, the contracts referred to in paragraph (1).
paragraph 3 of the Consumer Code provides
that: In particular, this subsection is
                                                        without prejudice to the [GDPR] and the directive
   “This subsection applies 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the
   also when the professional four- Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the treat-
   nits or undertakes to provide content ment of personal data
   digital or a digital service to and the protection of privacy in the sec-
   consumer, and the consumer who provides electronic communications. In
   nits or undertakes to provide data in the event of conflict between the provisions of the
   personal nature to the professional, except for this subsection and those of the right of
   when personal data the Union for the protection of personal data
   provided by the consumer are excluded of a personal nature, the latter
   sively handled by the professional to prevail. »
   provide the digital content or service
   digital in accordance with this With particular reference to the
   sub-section or to enable the provision of digital content or services
   the professional to fulfill the digital obligations, the authors of the bill
   legal obligations incumbent upon him, provided that it is specified in the explanatory memorandum that




                                                           323
6 APPENDICES




        “this variety of contracts translates in particular into the rights of the persons concerned such as
        ment by a notable novelty of the text the right to erasure and the right of opposition. AT
        which aims to take into consideration such as this, the CNPD agrees with the opinion of the EDPS which
        non-monetary consideration for the supply considers in its opinion that "the data to be
        of the digital content or service, the personal character cannot be understood
        provision by the consumer of data for a price or money” and “that the
        of a personal nature. The Directive attempts to term ‘data as consideration’ should
        to find a balance between the pro- be avoided” to avoid confusion with the
        protection of personal data obligations arising in particular from the GDPR.
        which is a fundamental right and the need
        to protect the consumer in In this respect, it should be noted that the considera-
        transactions falling within a rant model 38 of Directive 2019/770 specifies that
        business based on the resale of data
        personal”. “this directive should not
                                                               regulate the conditions applicable to the
    Based on European standards for the lawful processing of personal data
    matter of the fundamental right to respect for personnel, this question being regulated
    privacy and the fundamental right to protection, in particular, by the [GDPR]. Since then,
    protection of personal data, the processing of personal data
    EDPS notes that it is "highly possible that there is a
    a market in personal data scope of this Directive
    […] but that does not mean that we can only be lawful if it complies with the provisions
    or should confer on this market the anointing of [GDPR] regulations concerning the bases
    the law ". Thus, it is regrettable that the legal directive of the processing of data to
    2017/770, and hence the draft law, suggests that personal character”.
    the provision of personal data
    can constitute real consideration for a In any case, the CNPD nevertheless welcomes
    provision of services or goods, in particular the fact that the consumer may benefit
    digital content or service. Indeed, the same guarantees provided for by the Code of
    as otherwise explicitly follows from consumption in connection with contracts
    new article L.212-12, paragraph 8 of the so-called “free” Code, i.e. without
    of the aforementioned consumption, the treatment of pecuniary consideration, relating to goods
    consumer personal data and digital services, including the provision
    maker by the professional must comply with digital content.
    in all respects to the rules arising from the GDPR
    and legislation relating to privacy and Remedies
    electronic communications, in particular According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill




                                            324
“subsequently put in place the remedies, and aimed at and, consequently, constitute a
their terms, in the event of failure to supply, failure to comply with the objective criterion of
of non-compliance or even compliance modifications which requires that the digital content
digital content or services or the digital service is adapted
digital”. to the purposes for which normal-
                                                     ing digital content or a service
Thus, the new digital article L. 212-6, paragraph 1 of the same type.
of the Consumer Code provides that:
                                                     This would be the case, for example, if the teacher
   “In the event of a lack of conformity, the consumer of data encryption software
   is entitled, under the conditions provided for did not implement the measures
   to this article, to the appropriate compliance required by Regulation (EU)
   goods, to a proportional reduction 2016/679 to ensure that the data to be
   of the price, or at the termination of the contract. » personal character from conception
                                                     are not disclosed to recipients not
The new article L. 212-21, paragraph 1, authorized, which would make the encryption software
of the Consumer Code provides for a measure that is unsuitable for its purpose, namely the trans-
similar provision for contracts for the secure transfer of data by the consumer.
the delivery of digital content or media to their intended recipients. Finally, he
digital service. there may be cases where non-compliance,
                                                     by the professional, obligations which
The authors of the bill specify in the its responsibility under Regulation (EU)
commentary to this article that “when 2016/679 may also constitute a
digital content or service was provided in non-compliance of the digital content
exchange of the consumer supply or digital service to the objective criterion
of personal data, the compliance consumer who wants the digital content
consumer has the right to rescission of the contract (it is not digital or the digital service
cannot logically enough benefit from one of the characteristics that are normal for
price reduction). digital content or services
                                                     numbers of the same type and to which
As mentioned above, recital 48 of the consumer can reasonably
Directive 2019/770 explains that: expect. For example, if a profession-
                                                     nel offering a sales application in
   “[…] a breach of obligations results in not taking the measures provided for
   of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 could, by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 to ensure
   same time, make digital content rer secure data processing to
   or the digital service unsuitable for the personal nature of the consumer and




                                                        325
6 APPENDICES




    that, therefore, the related information […] Where the facts giving rise to the non-
    to the consumer's credit card are in compliance with the requirements set out in the
    exposed to malware or regulation (EU) 2016/679 also constitute
    to spyware, this failure is a lack of conformity of the content
    could also constitute a defect of digital or digital service to the
    conformity of the digital content or of the subjective or objective criteria of conformity
    digital service within the meaning of this agreement as provided herein
    directive, given that the consumer- directive, the consumer should have
    could reasonably expect to be entitled to remedies for lack of conformity
    what an application of this type possesses as provided for in this directive,
    normally characteristics that prevent the contract from already being void or
    singing the disclosure of his contact details subject to cancellation under the law
    banking. "                                     national. »

    Facts that lead to non-compliance with It is therefore to be welcomed that, for violations of the
    requirements provided for by the (EU) GDPR Regulation in connection with the provision of content
    2016/679, including its principles of digital, a digital service or a
    basics such as well requirements with digital elements,
    minimization of data, consumer protection benefits from the channels of
    by design and remedies set forth above, in addition to the remedies
    default data protection, can normally available for breaches
    also, depending on the circumstances, be provisions for the protection
    considered as non-conformity of personal data and
    of the digital content or the ser- of invasions of privacy, in particular to
    digital defect to the subjective criteria or Article 82 of the GDPR. In this regard, it is necessary to
    compliance objectives provided for by the pre-recall recital 48 of the directive
    feel directive. An example could be 2019/770 which specifies that “[r]egulation (EU)
    that of a professional who undertakes 2016/679 or any other provision of the right of
    explicitly in the contract to be complied with- the Union in terms of data protection
    ter an obligation, or where the contract should fully apply to the processing
    can be interpreted as such, and where this personal data in connection with
    obligation is also linked to obligations- any contract falling within the scope of
    of the trader provided for by the re- of this directive. In addition, this
    Regulation (EU) 2016/679. In this case, such a directive should apply without prejudice
    contractual commitment may become by- rights, obligations and remedies not
    integral part of the subjective criteria of contracting provided for by the regulation (EU)
    compliance. 2016/679”.




                                    326
However, it is not easy to determine from geois. So she had already called for these wishes
of what elements the consumer will be able to introduce a provision providing
effectively prove the non-compliance this possibility of collective action or "class
of the contract on the basis of a violation of the actions” for questions of protection of the
provisions applicable to data, in the law of 1 August 2018 establishing
Data protection. On the one hand, the mere organization of the National Commission for
allegation of such a breach brought to data protection and the general regime
against a professional does not appear on data protection. Article 80, pa-
sufficient to demonstrate such non- paragraph (2) of the GDPR also indicates explicitly
compliance. On the other hand, the requirement for the payment which Member States may provide
consumer of a final decision to this possibility in accordance with their national law.
against the controller or a national, which is however not the case to date
processor from the supervisory authority in Luxembourg. Such a possibility could
(in this case the CNPD) or within the framework of a yet to be introduced if necessary through
legal recourse seems to place a burden on bill n° 7650 introducing the
excessive evidence on the consumer, class action in consumer law,
in particular by conditioning the exercise of by including compensation for damages incurred
its remedy – including termination of a pending data breach to
contract – to potentially personal nature or privacy procedures.
long and possibly dependent on a
discretion of an authority having Thus decided in Belvaux on 1 October
opportunity for action. Thus, the CNPD is 2021.
asks if it would not be useful to detail
how the consumer can bring The National Commission for the Protection of
evidence of such non-compliance. data

Beyond Available Civil Law Remedies Tine A. Larsen
for the consumer, the question arises President
the implementation of the responsibility of the
professional, especially when the resolved- Thierry Lallemang
breach of the contract stems from a lack of conformity
subject to subjective or objective criteria based
on a violation of the obligations arising from the Christophe Buschmann
GDPR. Although the right to a class action does not Commissioner
is not covered by the two directives, the CNPD
take advantage of this notice to support the intro- Marc Lemmer
duction of such a device in Luxembourg law- Commissioner




                                                             327
6 APPENDICES



Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
data relating to bill no. 7762 amending the law
of July 5, 2016 on the organization of taxi services. in the taxi sector as well as to include the
(Deliberation n° 31/AV26/2021 of 1/10/2021) rental cars with driver (hereinafter
                                                                           “VLC”) in the legislation.

                                                                           This notice will limit its observations to
                                                                           questions dealing with aspects relating to
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph (1), data protection, raised more
                   letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, particularly by articles 11 and 18 of the draft
                   2016 relating to the protection of legal persons under notice.
                   with regard to data processing
                   of a personal nature and the free movement of 1. On the condition of good repute
                   such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/
                   EC (general regulation on the protection of Under Article 7, paragraph (2), letter
                   data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which c) the amended law of 5 July 2016 on
                   refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of taxi services, as
                   organization of the National Commission for amended by the bill, any driver of
                   data protection and the general taxi or VLC scheme who wishes to obtain a card
                   on data protection, the Driver Board must meet the requirements
                   national authority for data protection (here- specified in article 8 of the said law.
                   after designated the “National Commission”
                   or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with Article 11 of the bill aims to
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, amend Article 8, paragraphs (1) and (2) of the
                   the government and other institutions and the law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of
                   bodies about legislation taxi services. It appears from the comment of
                   and administrative measures relating to the protection of Article 11 that the authors of the bill
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons to introduce in particular “a provision
                   with regard to the treatment”. to assess the antecedents of a
                                                                           person incurred during the last 5
                   By letter dated January 27, 2021, years preceding a request.
                   Minister of Mobility and
                   Public Works invited the National Commission A. On the assessment of good repute
                   to decide on the draft law amending the
                   law of 5 July 2016 on the organization of It emerges from paragraph (1) of article 8, as
                   taxi services (hereinafter the "Bill"). amended by clause 11 of the bill, that the honor
                                                                           reliability is assessed “on the basis of past
                   According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft law has for judicial that result “from the criminal record of the
                   objective of remedying certain taxi driver or VLC driver failures.




                                                            328
Paragraph (2) of the aforementioned article 8, as general law of the Grand Duchy to visitors
amended by article 11 of the bill, lists foreigners”299.
what would be the offenses to take
account for the purposes of assessing the good repute of a In addition, the Administrative Court of the Grand Duchy
taxi or VLC293 driver. of Luxembourg, in its judgment of 8 November
                                                                                  2018 cited above, was asked to rule on
While it should be noted that the aforementioned law does not affect the good repute of an applicant seeking a
does not define the concept of “good repute”294, taxi driver cards in accordance with
details as to the assessment of this to the amended law of 5 July 2016 on
notion are provided by the work of the organization of taxi services300.
comments relating to article 8 of the amended law
of 5 July 2016 cited above295, as well as by a In this judgment, the judges considered that the
judgment of the Administrative Court of the Grand Duchy list of offenses referred to in paragraph
of Luxembourg of 8 November 2018296. (2) Article 8 of the amended law of 5 July
                                                                                  2016 cited above, was not to be considered as
It emerges from the parliamentary proceedings that exhaustive and that “if the person has been the subject
the assessment of the good repute of the driver of a criminal conviction, his good repute
taxi is based on “criminal record No. 2 is not automatically affected,
in order to guarantee a standard, but it is up to the Minister, within the framework of
high degree of security for clients”297 and that the assessment of professional integrity
the “requirements in respect of the good repute of a taxi driver, to assess in concreto
intend to take into account, if the overall behavior of the person concerned is not
the verification of the award criteria, steps such as to deprive it of its honour”.
possible convictions in connection with
the activity of the taxi driver”298. It is The Court further held that the assessment of
further specified that “[t]his integrity check could not relate to
is necessary in order to guarantee acts committed more than 5 years ago. This principle of
a certain level of benefits and to ensure temporal limitation, as to the facts considered
the seriousness of the driver who is responsible in order to assess the good repute of a driver
the proper transport of its passengers. Moreover, it of taxi, as cleared by the jurisprudence,
is thus taken into account that the services have been taken over by the authors of the bill at
of taxi have a considerable impact on the image article 11 of the text under opinion.


293
      Paragraph (2) of article 8 of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of taxi services, as amended by article 11
      of the bill, provides that "[t]he requirements in terms of good repute are met, in particular if the taxi or VLC driver has not
      is the subject, within the five years preceding the request, of a criminal conviction which has become final and imposes a sentence
      imprisonment of at least six months for theft, fraud, breach of trust, willful attack on the integrity of the person, sexual assault
      or drug violation. ".
294
      As for the lack of definition of the notion of “good repute” in Luxembourg law, reference is made to deliberations no. 17/2020 of July 17, 2020
      (points I.2 and I.3.) and No. 3/AV3/2021 of February 10, 2021 (point I).
295
      Parliamentary document n°6588, commentary on the articles, p.16, ad article 10.
296
      Judgment of the Administrative Court of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 8 November 2018, number 41156C of the roll.
297
      Parliamentary document n°6588/00, commentary on the articles, p.16, ad article 10.
298
      Parliamentary document n°6588/00, commentary on the articles, p.16, ad article 10.
299
      Parliamentary document n°6588/00, commentary on the articles, p.16, ad article 10.
300
      Judgment of the Administrative Court of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 8 November 2018, number 41156C of the roll.



                                                                                             329
6 APPENDICES




    Therefore, if there is reason to congratulate the July 5, 2016 on the organization of services
    tors of the bill for these clarifications, the of taxis, as amended by article 11 of the bill
    CNPD regrets that the law bulletin number.
    criminal record which would be communicated either
    not expressly indicated in the said article Indeed, in Belgium article 9 of the decree of
    whereas it appears from the Walloon Government's parliamentary work carrying out the
    cited above and the aforementioned case law that the decree of October 18, 2007 relating to
    Bulletin No. 2 would be communicated. Applicable to vices of taxis and rental services
    recall in this regard that in the legal order cars with driver, as amended, provides
    Luxembourg, the communication informs that a driver “satisfies the conditions of
    relating to court decisions becomes morality” if he has not been the subject of a
    by the issuance of extracts from the criminal record serious criminal nation casting in force judged
    in accordance with the amended law of 29 March 2013 for the offenses listed therein, namely "1° offense
    relating to the organization of the criminal record. tion in Book II, Title III, Chapters I to V, Title V,
                                                                                  Chapters 1 and 2, Title VII, Chapter V, Title VIII,
    Therefore, it would be appropriate to complete the draft chapters 1 and 2 and Title VIII of the Penal Code;
    law in this regard. 2° infringement of the third and fourth
                                                                                  degree to traffic regulation
    Finally, without prejudging the appreciation of the road; 3° offense for speeding;
    the integrity in concreto to be made by 4° driving in a state of alcoholic intoxication,
    the minister having in his competences the law of alcoholic impregnation, drunkenness or under
    under opinion (hereinafter the "Minister"), and in order to the effect of other substances that influence the
    respect the principle of predictability and driving ability in the context of its
    precision to which any legal text professional activity must respond.
    or regulatory301, the CNPD wonders whether it
    would not be appropriate, like the legislation In France, article R.3120-8 of the Code des
    Belgian and French, to provide a list of French transport provides that "[n]o one may not
    exhaustive list of offenses which would be to exercise the profession of vehicle driver
    take into account when assessing a particular type of public transport if included in the
    good repute by the minister? Bulletin No. 2 of his criminal record, or to his
                                                                                  equivalent for non-nationals, one of the
              B. On the national legal framework compared the following convictions:
                 to that in Belgium and France 1° A final conviction for an offense
                                                                                  sanctioned under the Highway Code by a
    It is interesting to note that both the Belgian law reducing by half the maximum number of
    that French provide a similar condition points of the driving licence;
    to that required by article 8 of the amended law of 2° A final conviction for driving



    301
          In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015.



                                                            330
of a vehicle without holding a license was introduced by article 18 of the amended law of
corresponding to the category of the vehicle July 5, 2016 on the organization of services
cule used or for driving despite the cancellation of taxis.
driving license or despite the prohibition
to obtain the issuance of the permit, or Article 23 of the bill however intends
for refusing to return his driving license carry out a complete overhaul of these provisions
after its invalidation or cancellation; positions. The National Commission regrets that
3° A definitive condemnation pronounced by the reasons which prompted the authors of the project
a jurisdiction, French or foreign, to a law to carry out such an overhaul are not
criminal penalty or a correctional penalty not exposed in the commentary of the articles,
of at least six months of imprisonment for while the new provisions lack
theft, fraud, breach of trust, loss of clarity and precision, contrary to those
voluntary to the integrity of the person, aggression which initially appeared in the aforementioned article 18.
sex, arms trafficking, extortion or
drug law offence. A. Preliminary remarks

Contrary to the current national legal framework, it should be remembered that keeping a file
Belgian and French laws list the limits of personal data collected
the facts on which the appre- and processed by an administrative authority must
determination of “morality” or “good repute rest on a legal basis in accordance with
professional”302 of a driver. Therefore, Article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR.
to meet precision requirements
and predictability that a This article provides for a particular constraint
legal text303, the CNPD wonders whether the authors linked to the lawfulness of data processing
of the bill should not be based on the necessary to comply with a legal obligation
Belgian and French legal provisions or the performance of a mission of public interest
aforementioned? or subject to the exercise of public authority
                                                                              with which the controller is responsible.
      2. On the database dedicated to In these two scenarios, the basis
         the daily management of licenses and the purposes of data processing
         operation of taxis and VLC as well must be specifically defined either by
         than to those of driver cards the law of the European Union, either by the law
                                                                              of the Member State to which the head of the
It should be noted that the principle of processing creation is subject.
a personal data bank
nel held by the minister and dedicated to the management In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies
day-to-day taxi operating licenses a that it should “[…] belong to Union law


302
      Article R.3120-6, point 3° of the French Transport Code.
303
      In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229,
      December 4, 2015.



                                                                                        331
6 APPENDICES




    or the right of a Member State to determine B. On the role of the various actors
    the purpose of the processing. Moreover, this right
    could specify the general conditions of the The National Commission is pleased that the
    this regulation governing the lawfulness of the trai- paragraph (4) of article 18 of the amended law of
    processing of personal data, 5 July 2016 on the organization of services
    establish the specifications for determining the number of taxis, as modified by article 23 of the draft
    controller, the type of law data, specifies the role of the various actors in
    personal data subject to processing - the framework for the processing of personal data
    ment, the persons concerned, the personnel entities referred to in the aforementioned article.
    to which the personal data
    may be communicated, the limitations of The CNPD welcomes that the authors of the bill
    purpose, retention period and others have specified that:
    measures to ensure lawful processing and - the Minister is responsible for the
    loyal. […]”. processing within the meaning of Article 4, point 7) of the
                                                           GDPR; and
    By virtue of the aforementioned provisions, these bases - the CTIE and the Société Nationale de Circulation
    Automotive (hereafter the “SNCA”) should establish provisions act in
    specific to determine, among other things, as a subcontractor of the Minister within the meaning of
    the types of data processed, the persons Article 4, point 8) of the GDPR.
    concerned, the entities to which the data
    may be communicated and for what Concerning the role of the subcontractor, there is
    purposes, retention periods of to recall that in accordance with Article 28
    data or the operations and procedures of the GDPR, the latter “does not process the data
    treatment. of a personal nature only on instruction
                                                         documented by the controller".
    Thus, although the provisions of Article 18
    mentioned above already provided for the holding C. On the purposes of the processing of
    of a file by the Minister, these should, personal data
    following their revision by article 23 of the
    bill, be supplemented while they As noted above, Article 23
    are worded too vaguely or recast article 18 of the law
    imprecise. amended on July 5, 2016 on the organization
                                                         taxi services. It results from this
    In the developments below, Com- refonte that the purposes listed in
    national mission will return to the provisions of paragraph (1) of the aforementioned article 18
    to be supplemented or on the elements deleted by article 23 of the bill.
    to be specified. The purposes of the processing are now




                                           332
listed in subsection (2) of section 18, such subsection (3) of section 18, as amended by
as amended by section 23 of the bill. section 23 of the bill. However, there is
                                                         to note that the initial wording of the article
If the said article substantially repeats the purposes of 18 was more precise both with regard to the
ties which were listed in article 18, paragraph categories of personal data
(1), it should be noted that the purpose relating to collected by the Minister as their origins.
“the implementation of analyzes and research However, such provisions have been removed and
for planning and evaluation purposes have not been included in Article 23 of the draft
the quality of taxi services after deper- law.
sonnalisation of the related data" was
removed. Article 23 of the bill introduces i. On the origin of the data
also a new purpose, namely "the
control of compliance with the provisions of pre- It should be noted that Article 18, in its
law and its implementing regulations”. initial version, made a distinction between
                                                         categories of data that were collected
The National Commission welcomes the fact that directly with the people concerned
purposes are determined and listed in addition to those that were collected indirectly and
subsection (2) of section 18, as amended by which were from state files.
section 23 of the bill.
                                                         The current wording no longer performs such
Nevertheless, for clarity it would have been pre-distinction. However, it appears from the commentary
preferable that the authors of the bill specify articles that “[l]access to the majority
which data is collected and for which personal data is done through
purposes. In the absence of such details, it is access to other existing databases
difficult for the CNPD to assess whether the principle such as the RNPP or the database
minimization would be respected. It is recalled on the vehicles" and that "the encodings of
that under this principle, only new personal data is very
personal data which are necessary to the limited within the database”. In
achievement of the purposes may be processed. addition, paragraph (5) of Article 18, as
                                                         amended by section 23 of the bill, provides
      D. On the origin of the data, also an indirect collection of data
         personnel and categories by the Minister via the SNCA.
         personal data
                                                         Therefore, the CNPD questions the validity of
The National Commission is pleased that the deletion of the provisions of Article 18,
categories of personal data in its initial version, which specified the origin of the
collected by the minister are listed under data collected and processed by the minister.




                                                                    333
6 APPENDICES




    If access to state files were legal and contact details of the person
    be a means of collecting data with morality”. However, information with
    personal character then it should appear in relation to legal persons may, the
    expressly in the bill. The Commis- if necessary, concern natural persons
    national association will come back to this below at point E. ical (for example: if they include the name
                                                             of the manager of the company) and must therefore be
    Finally, it should be noted that under the para- considered as personal data
    Graph (5) of Article 18, as amended by personal title. The GDPR will therefore not apply
    Article 23 of the bill, the Minister would only obtain personal data which
    via the SNCA “the national identification number would be communicated to the minister.
    of the candidate". However, it should be remembered that
    access to the RNPP by an administration should It should be noted that the initial version of
    be carried out in accordance with the procedure pre- Article 18 was drafted with more precision
    view by article 10 of the amended law of 19 June and clarity with regard to the categories
    2013 relating to the identification of data subjects collected by the Minister. In effect,
    as well as sections 5 to 7 of the rule- subsection (3) of section 18 listed the
    Grand-Ducal ment of 28 November 2013 setting categories of data collected indirectly
    the terms of application of the aforementioned law. ment via state files and paragraph
    It would therefore be preferable to provide that (5) listed the categories of
    the Minister has access to the RNPP in accordance with the data that was collected directly
    to the aforementioned provisions rather than pre- with drivers, taxi operators
    see the transmission of the identification number or interested parties "on the waiting list".
    national by the SNCA to the Minister.
                                                             However, the current wording of Article 18, as
          ii. On the categories of data to be modified by article 23 of the bill, proposes
              personal character a succinct and imprecise list,
                                                             which does not include some of the categories
    It should be noted that the Minister sees data which was nevertheless covered by
    communicate personal data per- the provisions deleted. Moreover, the
    sonnel as well as data concerning provisions under notice do not mention to
    Moral people. As such, it is appropriate to which person concerned the
    note that recital 14 of the GDPR personal data which would be
    states that the GDPR “(…) does not cover data collected.
    processing of personal data
    concerning legal persons, and by way of illustration, it should be noted that
    particular companies with the pearl paragraph (3) of Article 18, as amended
    legal character, including name, form by section 23 of the bill, provides that




                                              334
“surnames and first names” would be collected. access to other state files by the
Are these the names and surnames of the drivers, minister. Indeed, this article specified for
taxi or VLC operators? each of the files to which the minister could
                                                                              access what data he could
Thus, in order to meet the requirements of will collect for the purposes listed therein.
precision and predictability to which
respond to a legal text304, the Commission However, these provisions have been deleted by
national suggests that the authors of the draft article 23 of the bill although the authors
repeat the initial wording of article 18, of the bill specify in the commentary
paragraphs (3) and (5), if not to specify in articles that “[l]access to the majority of
the text under notice to which person con- personal data is made by means of
data relate to categories of data access to other existing databases
of a personal nature and complete the list- such as the RNPP or the database
ration of categories of personal data on vehicles”.
personal, which does not appear at this stage
complete. For example, if access to other state databases
cise that the photo of the driver would be collec- seems to be always the will of the authors of the
ted as well as the extract from the criminal record of a bill, this is no longer reflected
taxi or VLC driver would be collected. in the current wording of Article 18, as
                                                                              amended by clause 23 of the bill. The article
Finally, a clerical error appears to have occurred 18 paragraph (5), as amended by section 23
slipped into subsection (3) of section 18, as of the bill, further providing only for
as amended by article 23, in that it provides for the communication of data from the SNCA to the
“for the files listed in paragraphs minister.
1 and 2" whereas it appears from the said paragraphs
that the Minister maintains a single bank of Therefore, in order to meet the requirements of
data. In addition, in the same paragraph, the precision and predictability to which must
also seems that the authors of the project respond to a legal text305, the Commission
of law have omitted the term "collected" fair national believes that such access should
after “personal data”. be provided for and governed by the bill. On
                                                                              this point, it is suggested to the authors of the draft
          E. On access to the RNPP and to the legal basis of repeating the provisions of article 18,
             vehicle data paragraph (3).

It should be noted that the initial provisions Finally, the attention of the authors of the
tials of article 18, paragraph (3), framed the draft law on the fact that these accesses must not


304
      In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229,
      December 4, 2015.
305
      In this sense, V. M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; V. among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229,
      December 4, 2015.



                                                                                        335
6 APPENDICES




    not allow the Minister to obtain in a manner should be made by the authors of the
    Indirect Personal Data Bill.
    from state authority files for
    which he would not have access under project G. On access to personal data
    law under notice. personal

              F. On the communication of data It should be noted that the provisions
                 of a personal nature to the SNCA set out in paragraph (7) of Article 18, as
                                                                                   as amended by section 23 of the bill,
    It should be noted that in its version provide access "to the data contained
    initial Article 18, paragraph (10) provided in the database “for members
    that “[t]he Minister is authorized to communicate, from the Grand Ducal Police and the
    by computerized processes, or not, of the customs and excise administration in the
    personal data relating to the purpose referred to in paragraph (2),
    operators or drivers, to the SNCA, in point 1) of the aforementioned article.
    purposes of permitting the verification of a license
    of exploitation being processed and Gold, insofar as a law must be
    purposes of issuing and affixing the table sufficiently clear and precise in order to
    taxi, the taxi zone plate and the sign allowing the persons concerned to
    luminous. The data that can be know the extent of the limitations, as well as
    communicated to the SNCA are determined the possible consequences for them306,
    by Grand-Ducal regulation. » it would be appropriate to specify the legal framework
                                                                                   checks that can be carried out by the
    Article 14, paragraph (2), of the regulations for grand- members of the Grand Ducal Police and officers
    of July 23, 2016 setting in particular the customs and excise administration.
    procedures for applying the legislation on The National Commission recommends, as soon as
    organization of taxi services, enumerate then, to insert at the end of subsection (7) of
    the data that may be communicated Article 18, as amended by Article 23 of the draft
    by the Minister to the SNCA. law, the following wording: "in accordance
                                                                                   to their supervisory powers as referred to in
    To the extent that the provisions of article 22 of this law”307.
    paragraph (10) of article 18 are deleted
    by article 23 of the bill, and that the authors Finally, the CNPD still wonders whether access
    of the bill do not indicate the reasons for such a file by the Grand Ducal Police
    such deletion, the National Commission should not be provided for in the body of the article
    wonders whether such communication remains 43 of the amended law of 18 July 2018 on the
    planned? If so, such details Grand-ducal police, which specifies in particular


    306
          See among others ECtHR, Zakharov v. Russia [GC], n°47413/06, § 228-229, 4 December 2015.
    307
          Article 22 of the amended law of 5 July 2016 on the organization of taxi services provides that: “[i]nfringements of the provisions
          of this law and its implementing regulations are sought and observed by members of the Grand Ducal Police and by the
          officials of the Customs and Excise Administration”.



                                                             336
files to which appropriate law enforcement or organizational (integrity and
may have access, as well as the confidentiality conditions).
in which such access can be
operated. This is all the more so since the project In addition, article 32 of the GDPR provides that: “the
of law n°7741 amending 1° of the law responsible for processing and the subcontractor
of July 18, 2018 on the Police grand- implement the technical measures
ducale, 2° of the amended law of July 5, 2016 and appropriate organizational arrangements in order to
reorganizing the SRE and 3° of the Code guaranteeing a level of security adapted to the
penal, intends to modify the said article. Indeed, he risks. Such measures should be put
emerges from the explanatory memorandum of the bill in force in order to avoid in particular access
No. 7741 cited above, that the proposed modification of unauthorized data or leaks of
the aforementioned article 43 “aims to adapt the list of data.
files already accessible to the Police and
better supervise their access by the Police". Among these security measures, the Commission
                                                       national considers it important that only
     H. On the traceability of access for people who need it in the exercise
                                                       of their functions and tasks
It should be noted that paragraph (6) of professionals are entitled to have access
Article 18 made specific provisions for the necessary data. In this context,
regarding the traceability of access, which is strongly recommended to define a
are now being removed by the access management policy article, in order to be able to
23 of the bill. If the GDPR does not provide for the identification of the person or the service from the outset,
explicitly that such provisions are within each entity or administration
reflected in a text of law, the Commission concerned, who would have access to the data or,
nevertheless wishes to recall the principle within the framework of the administrations, at the interface
integrity and confidentiality which must be made available by the CTIE,
respected by the data controller, in and to what specific data this person
the minister in this case. or this service would have access.

In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter In addition, it is necessary to provide a system
f) of the GDPR the personal data of access logging (log register),
must be “processed in such a way as to guarantee a in order to be able to guarantee the traceability of access.
appropriate security of personal data Finally, the CNPD recommends that personal data
personnel, including protection against logging are retained for a
unauthorized or unlawful processing and against the period of five years from their registration,
loss, destruction or original damage period after which they are erased, except when
accidental, using technical measures that they are subject to a control procedure.




                                                              337
6 APPENDICES




    The CNPD also stresses the importance of carrying out Finally, it should be noted that the text
    proactively killing internal controls. in draft provides for a retention period
    To this end, it is appropriate in accordance with the article that in the event of forfeiture of a license
    32, paragraph (1), letter d) of the GDPR to put the operation of a taxi, VLC or a card of
    implement a procedure "aiming to test, to driver. However, what about in case of
    analyze and regularly evaluate the effectiveness renewal of a license to operate
    technical and organizational measures taxi, VLC or driver card?
    to ensure the security of the processing”.
                                                           It is reminded in this respect that in accordance with the
         I. On the retention period of the principle of accuracy, personal data
            personal data must be accurate, and if necessary,
                                                           kept up to date. Thus, it is the responsibility of the person responsible for
    In accordance with Article 5 paragraph (1), letter processing to take all measures
    e) GDPR, reasonable personal data to ensure that the data
    should not be kept any longer personal inaccuracies are rectified or
    as necessary for the achievement of the suppressed purposes without delay.
    for which they are collected and processed.
                                                           Thus decided in Belvaux on October 1
    The National Commission welcomes that 2021.
    Article 18, paragraph (8), as amended by
    Article 23 of the bill provides that “[t]he National Commission for the Protection of
    data will be kept as much as possible
    three years after license lapse
    taxi operator, the Tine A. Larsen operating license
    from VLC or from the driver card. The President photo
    ID is destroyed after production
    of the driver's card". Thierry Lallemang
                                                           Commissioner
    However, such provisions respect
    they the principle of limitation of conservation Christophe Buschmann
    with regard to the extract from the criminal record Commissioner
    which would be collected under Article 8 of the
    law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of Marc Lemmer
    taxi services? Commissioner




                                            338
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                       data relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, on the organization of the internal systems of centers
letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of 27 April prisons.
2016 on the protection of physical persons (Deliberation n°32/AV27/2021 of 1/10/2021)
sical with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character and the free movement of
such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/
EC (general regulations on the protection of By mail dated June 16, 2021, Madam
data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which the Minister of Justice has invited the Commission
refer to article 7 of the national law of 1 August 2018 to decide on the amendment
organization of the National Commission for government related to the same project.
data protection and the general regime
on data protection, the Commission According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft
national authority for data protection (the purpose of this Grand-Ducal regulation is to “fix
after designating the “National Commission” the rules relating to the prison regime
or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with Luxembourg prison centres”
law of the Member State, the national parliament, the and will repeal the amended Grand-Ducal regulation
government and other institutions and bodies of 24 March 1989 concerning the administration
isms about legislative and administrative measures and the internal regime of establishments
ministerial regulations relating to the protection of penitentiary rights.
and freedoms of natural persons with regard to
of treatment”. Furthermore, in accordance with The authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
article 8 point 3° of the said law of 1 August 2018 further specifies that the draft
(transposing into national law article 46, grand-ducal regulation “a chapter dedicated to
Paragraph 1, letter (c) of Directive (EU) No. processing of personal data
2016/680), the CNPD “advises the Chamber of Detainees. Following the entry into force of the
deputies, the Government and other institutions- data protection legislation
organizations and agencies regarding personal legislative measures strict rules regarding
legal and administrative provisions relating to the protection of data processing are applicable.
of the rights and freedoms of natural persons to It is the responsibility of the data controller
with regard to the processing of personal data”. data to set the rules and conditions
                                                       general”.
By letter dated February 8, 2021, Mrs.
the Minister of Justice invited the Commission The National Commission will limit its observations
to decide on the draft regulations on issues relating to the protection
Grand-Ducal ment on the organization of personal data, raised
internal regimes of penitentiary centers (herein Chapter VIII and articles 103 and 121 of the
after the “draft Grand-Ducal regulation”). draft Grand-Ducal regulation.




                                                              339
6 APPENDICES




          I. On the processing of data ef- 1. the register of sentences;
             2. the register of persons placed at the disposal of the prison administration
             sition of the Government for vagrancy
                                                                           and begging or by virtue of a measure taken
    Article 127, paragraph (1), of the draft in execution of article 15 of the law of 28
    Grand-Ducal regulation is intended to list March 1972 concerning the entry and stay
    the categories of data that would be processed from foreigners;
    by the prison administration within the framework of 3. the register of defendants who are
    of its missions referred to in article 3 of the law of 20 under warrant of arrest, warrant of deposit or
    July 2018 reforming the arrest warrant administration;
    prison. 4. the register of minors placed in the section
                                                                           disciplinary;
              1. Introductory remarks 5. the register of military detainees;
                                                                       6. the register of the daily state of the population
    It appears from the commentary of the articles that penitentiary;
    the data listed in paragraph (1) of 7. the penalty register;
    section 127 of the bill “were already dealt with 8. the register of deposited cash
    on the basis of article 43 of the regulation of March 24, sed by the detainees and
    1989. In view of the provisions of the law of 1st 9. the alphabetical directory of detainees;
    August 2018 relating to the protection of persons 10. the alphabetical directory of correspondence
    with regard to the processing of dance data of detainees;
    of a personal nature in criminal matters as well as 11. the individual files of detainees;
    that in matters of national security, it has been 12. the register of declarations of opposition;
    considered useful first of all to carry out 13. the register of declarations of appeal and
    a sorting in the registers listed in article 43 appeals in cassation;
    14. the enlargement agenda;
    registers no longer exist at the present time, and by 15. the register mentioning the recluses voluntarily
    elsewhere, to enumerate in detail all silences according to article 332 of the regulations; And
    the data that will henceforth be processed by 16. the register of domicile elections.
    prison administration.
                                                                       From now on, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
    Article 43 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of March 24 only seems to provide for 6, namely:
    1989 concerning the administration and the regime - the register of admission308;
    prison establishments, which - the individual file309;
    will be repealed by the draft grand- - social integration file310;
    ducal, listed 16 registers, namely: - the register of excavations311;




    308
          See article 128 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    309
          See article 129 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    310
          See article 130 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
    311
          See article 121 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                                 340
- the register referred to in article 123 of the draft refers to the registers that would be kept by
  grand-ducal regulations; and the Registry of Penitentiary Centers. The clothe
- the register of visits312. such registers by penitentiary centers
                                                             suggests that the latter should be qualified as
In addition, the CNPD understands that certain data controllers.
the categories of data listed in article 127,
paragraph (1), of the draft regulation grand- Clarifications on this subject would benefit from
ducal are intended to be found in the to be made by the authors of the project of
aforementioned registers. grand-ducal regulation.

          2. On the data controller 3. On the purposes of the processing of
                                                                      personal data
According to the provisions of article 127, para-
graph (1), of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, As noted above, Article 127
the prison administration will process the donations of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, has for
born listed there. The National Commission object to enumerate in its paragraph (1), the
therefore understands that the peni- categories of data that would be processed by
prisoner would be qualified as responsible for the prison administration in accordance with
treatment. in article 3, paragraph (4), of the law of 20
                                                             July 2018 reforming the administration
According to article 4 of the prison law of 20 July 2018.
reform of the prison administration,
the prison administration understands Article 3, paragraph (4), of the law of 20 July 2018
management, the Uerschter penitentiary center - reforming the penitentiary administration
haff, the penitentiary center of Luxembourg, states that “[t]he prison administration
Givenich penitentiary center and the institute of is authorized to process personal data
prison training. personnel relating to the persons for whom it has
                                                             charge and those relating to offences,
Insofar as the prison administration convictions and other judicial decisions.
encompasses several bodies, the Commission These data may only be processed for the purpose of
national wonders whether the bodies constitute the purposes referred to in Articles 1(2),
killing would not, for certain treatments and 37”.
of data, to be qualified as responsible for
separate treatment. Article 1, paragraph (2), of the aforementioned law
                                                             provides in particular that “[t]he objective of the
Indeed, and by way of example, articles 128 and implementation of custodial sentences
129 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation is to reconcile the protection of the




312
      See article 103 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                                    341
6 APPENDICES




    society, the sanction of the convict and the that “[t]he prison administration, for its
    interests of the victim with the necessity on their part, will be subject to the provisions of the
    prepare the integration of the detained person in order to regulate (EU) n° 2016/679, sometimes to those
    to enable him to lead a responsible life of the future law transposing the directive (EU)
    and to notify the commission of news n° 2016/680, depending on the exact purpose of the
    offences. ". processing of personal data:
                                                         if it concerns data that the administration
    Article 37, paragraph (1), of the aforementioned prison law deals with the implementation of the
    further provides that “[l]access to any decisions taken in the context of the execution
    person, including those referred to in the article on penalties, the provisions of the future law
    24, to a penitentiary can be submitted will apply; on the other hand, if it is
    to a security and safety control of the processing of personal data
    person, of his identity, of his personal luggage having for purpose the simple
    and personal effects, as well as the vehicle and management of penitentiary centres, such as
    of its load when this vehicle enters, for example the management of entry badges or
    within the confines of the prison. This visitors, Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 will be
    control cannot apply to folders, applications. ".
    documents or exhibits that are covered by
    a professional secrecy or which come under the Therefore, in order to determine the provisions
    educational secrecy. The briefcases or which would be applicable to the treatments
    other containers containing data carried out by the administration
    the files, documents or documents concerned prison within the framework of the project of
    can only be subject to control by Grand-Ducal regulation, attention
    visual summary allowing to note particular should be brought to the finalities
    that they do not contain objects, materials and which would be prosecuted by the person in charge
    substances prohibited by law or prohibited by treatment.
    Grand-Ducal regulation taken on the basis of article
    36, paragraph 2, to the exclusion of any control However, it is to be regretted that the authors of the
    which would make it possible to become acquainted with the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
    content of the files, documents or exhibits refer only to the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the
    concerned". protection of natural persons with regard to
                                                         treatment in criminal matters as well as in
    Furthermore, it should be noted that it is a matter of national security.
    preparatory work for the law of 1 August
    2018 relating to the protection of persons Indeed, the CNPD considers that the processing
    physical with regard to the processing carried out within the framework of Article 37,
    criminal as well as in terms of national security paragraph (1), of the law of July 20, 2018




                                           342
reforming penitentiary administration 50 of the directive on the protection
should be subject to the provisions of the natural persons with regard to the processing
GDPR. processing of personal data in
                                                         criminal and security matters
      4. On the categories of national data which states that “the measures taken
         collected by “the administration by the controller should
         penitentiary » understand the establishment and
                                                         implementation of specific guarantees intended for the
The CNPD welcomes that Article 127, paragraph processing of personal data
(1) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation lists relating to vulnerable natural persons
the categories of data brought to be such as children”.
processed by the controller.
                                                                   B. On special categories
However, some inaccuracies remain, data
so that the National Commission intends
make the following comments. Article 127, paragraph (1), of the draft regulation-
                                                         Grand-Ducal agreement provides in particular that
           A. On data relating to “the prison administration may process (…)
              minors 2° any documentation establishing
                                                         visible injuries sustained prior to
The CNPD only understands data upon admission to the penitentiary centre; (…)
personal character relating to minors 11° the surnames and first names of the persons to
could be processed. prevent in case of (…) serious illness or
                                                         death ; 12° the information contained in the
Indeed, it results from article 6 of the modified law assessments of psychological, psychosocial follow-up
of 10 August 1992 relating to the protection of the and psychotherapeutic treatment of detainees; 13° the
youth, that a minor can be placed in the information contained in the reports of ex-
a State disciplinary establishment, or at the pertise”.
Luxembourg Penitentiary Centre, if a
placement measure in an establishment The CNPD understands that expert reports
ordinary care, education or preserva- tion referred to above refer to the expert reports
vation is inadequate due to the poor referred to in Article 17, paragraph (1), of the Law of 20
conduct or dangerous behavior of July 2018 reforming the administration
minor involved. penitentiary which provides that “[t]he administration
                                                         penitentiary receives by right, at the time
However, it is necessary to draw the attention of the authors of the detention of a person, copy
draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the consideration of the judicial decision on the basis of which the




                                                                343
6 APPENDICES




    detention is carried out, as well as reports a. On compliance with the provisions
    of expertise concerning the detainee”. related specific legal
                                                                                                   to particular categories of
    The authors of Bill No. 7042 on re-data
    form of prison administration had
    clarified with regard to these reports that “[s]t It should be noted that the processing of
    covered by this mainly reports special categories of data require
    relating to the physical and mental health of specific protection and are subject to
    concerned”313. stricter requirements.

    The information contained in such Thus, if the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the pro-
    reports are, therefore, likely to be protection of natural persons with regard to the
    relating to the physical and mental health of the processing of personal data
    inmate concerned. nel in criminal matters as well as in matters of
                                                                                      national security is intended to apply, then
    Thus, the aforementioned information referred to in the provisions of its article 9 will be
    Article 127, paragraph (1), of the draft rules applicable.
    Grand-Ducal regulations are likely to be
    qualified as specific categories of These provisions provide in particular that
    data insofar as these are such processing is authorized "only
    likely to relate to the state of health of the in case of absolute necessity, subject to
    held. appropriate safeguards for the rights and
                                                                                      freedoms of the data subject, and only-
    Furthermore, if such processing is carried out:
    carried out in the framework of the implementation (a) when authorized by Union law
    decisions taken within the framework of the European Union or in application of this
    enforcement of sentences then the provisions of law or another provision of Luxembourg law
    article 9 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the bourgeois;
    protection of natural persons with regard to (b) to protect the vital interests of the person
    the processing of data of a data subject or of another person
    in criminal matters as well as in physical matters, or
    national security will apply. A c) when the processing relates to personal data
    contrario, if the processing is carried out in a manifestly made public by the
    for the purposes of managing the penitentiary centers person concerned”.
    then the provisions of Article 9 of the GDPR
    will apply. Chapter VIII of the draft Grand-
                                                                                      ducal as well as the comments of the articles




    313
          See bill, parliamentary document n°7042/00, Ad article 18, page 33.



                                                               344
however, do not specify what would be the "appropriate and specific measures
the appropriate guarantees that would be put in place to safeguard the rights and freedoms
implemented by the controller. of the data subject" which should
                                                        be implemented by the head of the
The CNPD considers that it is important, account processing in the context of the processing of
given the nature of the data in question, special categories of data.
that such guarantees are provided by the
controller. b. On the origin of categories
                                                                      specific data
In addition, if the GDPR is intended to apply
then the provisions of Article 9 of the GDPR i. On "information
will apply. contained in the balance sheets
                                                                            psychological follow-up,
This article provides that in principle such psychosocial and psychothe-
data processing is prohibited except for rapeutics”
if any of the conditions referred to in subsection (2)
of the aforementioned article is met. Although the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
                                                        specifies that the "information contained in
In the present case, the National Commission the psychological, psychoso-
believes that such cial and psychotherapeutic data processing” is included in the
could be based on Article 9, paragraph individual file314 and in the insertion file
(2), letter h), of the GDPR which provides that “the social status of the detainee315, there is reason to question
processing is necessary for the purposes of the on the origin of the “information contained in
preventive medicine or medicine psychological and psychosocial follow-up assessments
work, the assessment of the capacity of and psychotherapeutic”.
work of the worker, of medical diagnoses
health or social care, The CNPD wonders whether the “information
or the management of systems and services contained in the psycho-monitoring
logical, psychosocial and psychotherapeutic health care or social protection
on the basis of Union law, the law of a tick” would come from the medical file of the
Member State or under a concluded contract held.
with a healthcare professional and submitted
the conditions and guarantees referred to in para- If this were to be the case, it should be noted
graph 3”. that Article 26, paragraph (4), of the law of 20
                                                        July 2018 reforming the administration
Thus, the authors of the draft large prison regulations stipulate that “[t]he benefits
ducal health care should be particularly careful are documented by the




314
      Article 129 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
315
      Article 130 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                               345
6 APPENDICES




    attending physician of the detainee in a training file to anyone but on the contrary
    medical. Without prejudice to professional secrecy, to create a legal basis aimed at allowing
    referred to in Article 458 of the Penal Code or an exchange of information when their detention
    any other obligation of confidentiality the ur is convinced that an exchange is favorable
    professional, the prisoner's attending physician to the health of the prisoner/his patient. There
    as well as all other professionals in the case formulation „Without prejudice to professional secrecy
    where applicable bound by professional or professional secrecy …“ therefore aims to emphasize that the
    to an obligation of confidentiality may the actors involved are not released from their
    discuss with the prison administration obligations of secrecy and/or confidentiality
    essential information when provided, but allowed and encouraged
    in the interest of the prisoner concerned, of others to seek, for example, more actively the
    detainees, staff or security, the consent of their patient in order to exchange
    salubrity of the penitentiary center or of others information”316.
    people who have physical contact with
    detainees, including with regard to the Therefore, in such a case the treatment
    fight against contagious diseases. data elements relating to “information
                                                                           contained in the psychological follow-up
    In the bill relating to the law of 20 July gic, psychosocial and psychotherapeutic
    2018 reforming the penal administration of detainees” should be done in accordance
    the authors of the bill had related to the provisions of article 26, paragraph
    vé that the said legal provisions were aimed at “(4) of the aforementioned law.
    confer legal value on the detainee's right to
    receive the care they need in accordance with In any event, the National Commission
    due to his physical state of health and considers that the prison administration does not
    psychiatric” and to create “a legal basis should not have access to all the
    as a better exchange of information this information contained in the medical file
    this time between the doctors and the other interve- dicals and therefore to all the “information
    nants where applicable bound to professional secrecy contained in the psychological follow-up assessments
    sional or an obligation of confidentiality and gic, psychosocial and psychotherapeutic
    the prison administration. (…) the paragraph of the detainees”.
    4 under examination provides a legal provision
    aimed at enabling the actors involved to Indeed, access to such data should be
    better communicate with each other and to exchange only “essential information when
    manage the necessary information as best as it is in the interest of the prisoner concerned,
    inmate/patient care. (…) It is important other detainees, staff or security,
    to note in this respect that it is in no way the healthiness of the penitentiary center or
    question of imposing an exchange of in- other people having physical contact




    316
          Parliamentary document n°7042//00, Ad article 26, p. 39 to 41.



                                                              346
with detainees, including in relation to iii. Final remarks
the fight against contagious diseases”.
                                                                  It should be noted that article 44 of the
                      ii. On information against the Grand-Ducal regulation of 24 March 1989
                          in the ex- reports concerning the administration and the in-
                          lackluster performance of penitentiary establishments, which
                                                                  will be repealed by the draft grand-
The CNPD understands that the expert reports provide that the personal file of the
tise would be transmitted by the detained Attorney General “includes documents relating to
of State to the prison administration in order to ensure the physical and mental health of the detainee
allow the latter to dispose of the preserved in a separate folder to the infirm-
information that is necessary for the exery” and that “[t]he medical part of the file
execution of its missions. is sent in a sealed envelope to the doctor of the state
                                                                  bending of destination”.
Indeed, the authors of bill N°7042 pro-
reform of the prison administration Insofar as the aforementioned provisions
specified on this subject that the information in article 44 of the Grand-Ducal regulation of the
contained in the expert reports relating to March 24, 1989 concerning the administration and
to the physical and mental health of the detainee the internal regime of penitentiaries
constitute “essential information that is not taken up by the project
for the prison administration so that it is subject to Grand-Ducal regulations, the CNPD considers
can fulfill its missions with regard to what such measures should be included in
held in accordance in particular with the article the legal device under opinion and remain of applica-
1st paragraph 2 and in Article 3 paragraph 3 tion.
and 4”317.
                                                                  Thus, the National Commission wonders whether
Without prejudging the need to transmit the “information contained in the balance sheets
such information, there is reason to question the psychological, psychosocial and
on the retention and subsequent access of such psychotherapeutic detainees” must
data within the prison administration both appear in the individual file and
whereas it appears from article 130 of the draft in the social integration file, which are
Grand-Ducal regulation that the latter two different registers, one kept at the registry of the
would be kept in the penitentiary center and the other kept in the service
social integration file for each detainee. psychosocial and socio-educational.

The CNPD will come back to this below in points III and IV of the Is it not relevant, given the
this notice. nature of the data in question, that such




317
      Parliamentary document n°7042/00, Ad article 18, page 33.



                                                                         347
6 APPENDICES




    information is contained only in the penitentiary for all inmates. In what
    medical file of the detainee and are in the hands concerns detainees who are nationals of a
    of the health professional concerned? another Member State of the European Union or
                                                              of a third State, the prison administration
               C. On the "information contained in- may send a reasoned request to
                  bare in the criminal record Attorney General of State with a view to obtaining
                  of the detainee” of an extract from the criminal record of the authority
                                                              jurisdiction of the Member State whose prisoner
    Article 127, paragraph (1), point 14° of the draft concerned has nationality.
    of the Grand-Ducal regulation stipulates that the
    penitentiary administration can process “the information
    information contained in the criminal record of the tentiary may request from the public prosecutor
    held ". General of State copies of rulings and judgments
                                                              previously rendered in criminal matters to
    For a better understanding of the donations to a detainee by the national courts-
    born covered by the aforementioned provisions, as well as by the courts of another
    it should be specified which number of the Member State of the European Union or of a
    bulletin is referred to and to expressly refer to Third State. ".
    in one of the bulletins covered by the amended law of
    March 29, 2013 relating to the organization of the II. On the registers covered by the project
    judicial seat, whereas in the legal order of Grand-Ducal regulation
    Luxembourg the communication of information
    As set out above in point I.1. of the present
    by issuing extracts from the criminal record, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides
    in accordance with said law. the keeping of 6 registers, namely:
                                                              - the admission register;
    In addition, care should be taken to ensure that - the individual file;
    articulation between the provisions under opinion with - the social integration file;
    those of article 17, paragraph (2), of the law of 20 - the register of excavations;
    July 2018 reforming the administration - the register referred to in article 123 of the draft
    prison. grand-ducal regulations; And
                                                              - the register of visits.
    Indeed, that article provides that "[b]y
    derogation from article 6 of the amended law of 29 The authors of the draft law are to be congratulated.
    March 2013 relating to the organization of the register Grand-Ducal regulation for having specified
    criminal record, bulletin n°1 of the criminal record is for each of the registers which data to
    issued on reasoned request to the administration personal character would appear there.




                                              348
Just as we should salute the authors of Finally, in the absence of details on this subject
bill for having specified in articles 128 in the device under opinion, it is necessary to
and 129 that the admission register as well as asking if such measures would apply
individual file of each detainee are kept, if necessary, in the search register,
at the registry of the penitentiary centre. in the register referred to in Article 123 of the draft
                                                                                    Grand-Ducal regulation as well as in the register of
Article 130 specifies that the insertion file visits.
of each inmate is required to serve
psychosocial and socio-educational. III. On access to the data collected
                                                                                            by the prison administration and
Such details would also deserve on the safety of processing
to be brought for the register of excavations,
the register referred to in article 123 of the draft In accordance with the principle of integrity and
Grand-Ducal regulation as well as the confidentiality register, the data must be
visits. processed "in such a way as to ensure the security
                                                                                    appropriate personal data
Furthermore, it is further specified that the nel, including the protection against the processing
admissions register, the unauthorized or illicit individual file and against the loss,
and the aforementioned social integration file destruction or accidental damage,
are likely to be held in form using technical or organizational measures-
electronics318. On this subject, the authors of the appropriate nelles”319.
draft Grand-Ducal regulation specify
in particular that these registers may be The controller and the processor
kept in electronic form in order to “use both must implement the measures
optimally the appropriate new technical and organizational technologies
available”. in order to guarantee an appropriate level of security
                                                                                    at risk320, in particular with regard to
In the absence of precision in the project of the processing relating to categories
Grand-Ducal regulation and in the specific comments on personal data
articles as to the modalities of the nel321 outfit.
such electronic registers, the Commission
is not in a position to assess Such measures must be put in place
any problems relating to the work, in particular to avoid unauthorized access
data protection which could, where authorized to data, data leaks
necessary, born in this context. or unwanted changes.



318
      See Articles 128, paragraph (3), 129, paragraph (2) and 130, paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
319
      Article 5, paragraph (1), letter f) of the GDPR and article 3, paragraph (1), letter f) of the law of August 1, 2018 of August 1, 2018 on the protection
      natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
320
      Article 32 of the GDPR and Article 28, paragraph (1) of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
      personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
321
      Article 28, paragraph (1) of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
      personal character in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.



                                                                                              349
6 APPENDICES




    The authors of the project are to be congratulated for falling within the scope of the law.
    Grand-Ducal regulation to have provided for in the article of 1 August 2018 relating to the processing
    127, paragraph (2) of the draft data regulation in criminal matters as well as in
    Grand-Ducal that “the access of members in matters of national security, the person in charge
    the prison administration to the processing data should ensure compliance with the
    referred to in paragraph 1 and provisions of Article 28, paragraph (2) and
    strictly limited to those who justify article 24 of the aforementioned law.
    professional interest requiring them to deal
    these data in order to accomplish the missions Article 24 of the aforementioned law requires in particular
    provided for in article 3 of the law of July 20, 2018 that the controller defines the
    reforming the administration”. profiles and methods of access and carry out
                                                                                      regular checks of logs for purposes,
    Indeed, the National Commission considers in particular, “self-monitoring [and] guarantee
    important that only people who have data integrity and security
    necessary in the performance of their duties and of a personal nature”. In such cases,
    their professional tasks are empowered to the data controller should therefore
    have access to the necessary data. In this, carry out regular log reviews and
    context, it is strongly recommended to define proactive, particularly in relation to the measures
    an access management policy, in order to and procedures to be put in place to test,
    be able to identify the person from the start or analyze and regularly assess the effectiveness
    competent service which would have access to the data, technical and organizational measures
    and to what specific data this person to ensure the security of the processing
    or this service would have access. All the more so in accordance with article 28 of the said law.
    to the extent that particular categories
    data would be processed. IV. On the shelf life of
                                                                                              data
    The controller must therefore
    put in place such measures in order to ensure In accordance with the principle of limitation
    ensure the confidentiality and security of such storage, personal data
    data, including in particular a personnel system, must be kept "under
    logging (i.e. a record in a form allowing the identification of
    in “log files” or “logs”) of the persons concerned for a period
    user activities, anomalies and not exceeding that necessary with regard to the
    security-related events. purposes for which they are processed”.

    In addition, if electronic registers are to be commended to the authors of the draft
    should be required, and if such processing Grand Ducal regulation to have provided for in Article




    322
          Article 5, paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR and article 3, paragraph (1), letter e) of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
          with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.



                                                               350
132 that “[upon] the prisoner’s release, the files Thus decided in Belvaux on October 1
provided for in articles 129 and 130 are classified in 2021.
the records of the registry to be kept there for
a maximum period of thirty years” and that in “The National Commission for the Protection of
case of new detention intervening in the data
period referred to in paragraph 1, the files are
reproduced to be continued. In the absence of Tine A. Larsen
of a new detention within this period, the Presidents
data is destroyed or anonymized
to be used for statistical purposes or Thierry Lallemang
historical”. Commissioner

However, it regrets that the criteria up to Christophe Buschmann
tifying such a duration are not specified Commissioner
in the comments of the articles, so
that she is not able to appreciate if a Marc Lemmer
such duration appears proportionate in the present case. Commissioner




                                                            351
6 APPENDICES



Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7897 amending:
1° of the amended law of 17 July 2020 on national measures to decide on draft law no.
fight against the Covid-19 pandemic; 2° of the amended law 7897 amending: 1° of the amended law
of March 8, 2018 on hospital establishments of July 17, 2020 on measures to combat
and hospital planning; 3° of the amended law against the Covid-19 pandemic; 2° of the amended law
January 22, 2021 relating to: 1st modification of the articles of March 8, 2018 relating to establishments
L. 234-51, L. 234-52 and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code; hospitals and hospital planning;
2° temporary derogation from the provisions of articles 3° of the amended law of 22 January 2021 on:
L. 234-51, L. 234-52 and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code. 1° modification of articles L. 234-51, L. 234-
                                                                                                           52 and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code; 2° derogation-
(Deliberation n° 34/AV28/2021 of 12/10/2021
                                                                                                           temporary application to the provisions of articles
                                                                                                           L. 234-51, L. 234-52 and L. 234-53 of the Code of
                                                                                                           Labor (hereinafter “Bill No. 7897”).

                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill
                   letter (c) of Regulation (EU) No. 2016/679 of 27 No. 7897 “proposes to provide some
                   April 2016 relating to the protection of persons ad hoc adaptations to the current version
                   individuals with regard to the processing of data of the amended law of 17 July 2020 on
                   of a personal nature and the free movement of measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic
                   this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ which expires on October 18, 2021.”
                   EC (general regulation on the protection of
                   data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which The CNPD notes in this context that
                   refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the new paragraph (2) of article 2 of the
                   organization of the National Commission for Bill No. 7897 provides that henceforth at
                   data protection and the general regime inside catering establishments
                   on Data Protection, Commission and Beverage, Customers and
                   national authority for data protection (here- the entire staff of the establishment
                   after designating the “National Commission” concerned are obligatorily submitted to the
                   or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the Covid check regime,323 while article
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, 3septies of the said draft grants the option to any
                   government and other institutions and head of business or head of administration of
                   organizations about legislative measures place all or part only
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of its business or its administration
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons under the Covid check regime in order to protect the
                   with regard to the treatment”. safety and health of the workers concerned.

                   By email dated October 8, 2021, Ms. The customers, or even the employees concerned in
                   the Minister of Health invited the Commission to choose the Covid check regime by




                   323
                         See the new definition of the “Covid check regime” provided for in article 1, point 27 of bill no. 7897.



                                                                                  352
the employer, are therefore obliged to present a In addition, in the event that treatments
certificate of vaccination, recovery or data would be made as part of
of Covid-19 test indicating a negative result of Bill No. 7897, these must be based
as referred to in Articles 3bis, 3ter or 3quater on one of the bases of lawfulness listed in
of bill no. 7897. Nevertheless, it does not appear from article 6 of the GDPR as well as respecting one
not clearly of the said draft law, nor of the conditions referred to in Article 9, paragraph
commentary to articles, if processing (2), of the GDPR insofar as data
of personal data would relate to the health of the persons concerned
carried out by the employer or operator of would be likely to be processed.
catering and debit establishments
beverages, following the presentation by a customer As such, it should be noted that the treatment
or an employee of such certificate. personal data collected
                                                                                   and processed under a legal obligation must
Will the employer or operator collect on a legal basis in accordance with
or will it store the data set out in Article 6(3) of the GDPR, read together
said tests or said certificates following their with its paragraph (1), letters c). Compliant-
presentation ? Indeed, an employer, how lies in article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR this
will be able or will have to manage the Covid regime legal obligation should define the purposes of the
Daily check in practice from a processing point and contain “special provisions
for the protection of specific data to adapt the application of the rules
staff ? Will all employees be subject to this regulation, among other things: the conditions
daily to a Covid Check General regulations governing the lawfulness of the processing
or for practical reasons will he hold one by the data controller; the types of
file with data of employees who are data that are subject to processing; the per-
vaccinated or recovered. The bill doesn't give anyone concerned; the entities to which the
no answer to these questions and lack of personal data may be
precision on this. communicated and the purposes for which
                                                                                   they can be; purpose limitation; THE
It should also be recalled that the GDPR retention periods; and operations and pro-
will only apply when a processing procedure, including vi-
processing of personal data in order to guarantee lawful and fair processing, such as
will be carried out324, for example if the fact that those provided for in other situations
employee or customer has presented a result of particular treatment as provided for in the
certified rapid antigen test, a Chapter IX certificate”.
vaccination or a screening test certificate
serology is to be recorded in a Recital 41 of the GDPR further specifies
file by the employer or operator. that this legislation should be




324
      See the definition of personal data processing provided for in article 4.2 of the GDPr.



                                                                                             353
6 APPENDICES




    clear and precise and its application should be For example, in the case of a person
    foreseeable for litigants, in accordance with ciné, this is the following information: the
    the case law of the Court of Justice of the Union surname and first names of the person concerned,
    European Union and the European Court of Rights date of birth, reference to illness or
    of man325. the Covid-19 virus, the name of the vaccine, the
                                                                                   marketing authorization holder
    However, it is clear that if treatments or the manufacturer of the vaccine, the date of vaccination
    data had to be carried out on the basis of the State in which the vaccine was administered,
    of bill no. 7897, they could not identify the issuer of the certificate and its identifier.
    validly rest on such a lawful basis
    while the device under review does not comply In accordance with article 5, paragraph 1, letter
    not the legal requirements set out above. c) GDPR, personal data
                                                                                   must be “adequate, relevant and
    Considering the observations which are limited to what is necessary with regard to the
    above, the National Commission considers the purposes for which they are processed
    only in the event that processing of (minimization of data)”. Furthermore, all
    data would be carried out by the organizations processing personal data
    concerned, the text under opinion does not respect must be necessary and proportionate to the purpose
    not the requirements of clarity, precision and pursued by said processing.
    predictability to which a legal text must
    respond, in accordance with the case law of Although the CNPD understands that the application
    the Court of Justice of the European Union and CovidCheck.lu aims to simplify
    the European Court of Human Rights326, the verification of certificates, the CNPD
    and cannot, therefore, comment in more detail questions the need to make visible
    on the possible aspects that would be related to all of the aforementioned information,
    Protection of personal data. systematically during each check. In
                                                                                   Indeed, it seems that the same objective could
    With regard more specifically to the be achieved by simply displaying the state of the
    Covid check regime, the CNPD includes CovidCheck certificate (valid – green; invalid
    only after scanning the QR code of the certificate – red). Furthermore, an employer or
    CovidCheck, the result is displayed instantaneously - can a restorer validate a certificate by reading
    ment: the screen is green if the certificate is valid and the information that accompanies the QR code,
    red otherwise. However, it turns out if for example the application is unavailable, if there is
    there is no network reception or if the device
    also file on the screen when checking. for the scan no longer works?



    325
          In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.470, n°619. See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n°47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.
    326
          In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619; See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n"47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.



                                                             354
The general conditions of use of the certificates mentioned in articles 3bis, 3ter
CovidCheck plication available on the website or 3quater of Bill No. 7897. The same
https://covid19.public.lu/covidcheck specify question also arises for employees
further than Apple App Store platforms that are neither vaccinated nor recovered. Will they have to
and Google Play Store are likely to process every two days present a Covid-19 test
the personal data communicated indicating a negative result for
directly or indirectly by the utility to be able to work?
sator as part of the app download
plication. It should therefore be emphasized that with regard to Thus decided in Belvaux on 12 October
that the CovidCheck application contains 2021.
health data, it is important
to be particularly vigilant in using The National Commission for the Protection of
given technical and organizational measures
adequate in accordance with articles 25 pa-
paragraph (2) and 32 paragraph (1) of the GDPR in order to Tine A. Larsen
that these cannot be accessed President
to unauthorized persons.
                                                                             Thierry Lallemang
Finally, although these issues Commissioner
do not fall within the scope of protection
data, the CNPD had already questioned Christophe Buschmann
in terms of labor law in its opinions Commissioner
of May 28, 2021327 and June 8, 2021328 on the
consequences of a refusal by an employee of Marc Lemmer
submit to the obligation to present one of the Statutory Auditors




327
      Deliberation no. 20/AV16/2021 of 05/28/2021: https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/20201/20-AV16-PL7808-depistage-covid19.html.
328
      Deliberation n°24/AV19/2021 of June 8, 2021: https://cnpd.public.lu/content/dam/cnpd/fr/decisions-avis/2021/24-AV19-2021-du-8-juin-2021 -PL-
      7836-Covid.pdf



                                                                                      355
6
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                  APPENDICES



data relating to amendments to the proposal
revision of Chapter II of the Constitution (number
of parliamentary file: 7755). stages and covers chapter II dedicated to the rights
(Deliberation n°48/AV29/2021 of 10/29/2021) and freedoms.

                                                                              Article 24 of the proposed revision

                  In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, the CNPD has no comments to make.
                  letter (c) of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 of concerning amendments to the revision
                  April 27, 2016 relating to the protection of Chapter II. However, she would like to attract
                  natural persons with regard to the processing attention to Article 24 of the proposal
                  of personal data and to the revision, article not being the subject of a
                  free movement of such data, and repealing amendment.
                  Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on
                  data protection) (hereinafter the “GDPR This article provides for a right to the protection
                  “), to which article 7 of the data law of August 1 refers in the following terms:
                  2018 on the organization of the Commission “Everyone has the right to self-determination
                  national for data and information protection and data protection
                  general regime on the protection of personal data concerning him. These
                  the National Commission for Data Protection may only be processed for the purposes
                  data (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission and under the conditions determined by law.”
                  Nationale” or the “CNPD”) “advises,
                  in accordance with the law of the Member State, According to the commentary to the articles, article 24 of
                  the national parliament, the government and the proposal for the revision is inspired by article 8
                  other institutions and bodies on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union
                  European legislative and administrative measures which provides the following:
                  relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms
                  of natural persons with regard to the "Protection of personal data
                  treatment ". 1. Everyone has the right to the protection of personal data.
                                                                              born of a personal nature concerning her.
                  By letter dated August 17, 2021, Mr. 2. These data must be processed fairly,
                  the Minister of State has invited the National Commission- for specific purposes and on the basis of the
                  nal to decide on the amendments to the consent of the data subject
                  proposal to revise Chapter II of the or on the basis of another legitimate basis
                  Constitution (hereinafter the "proposal of provided by law. Everyone has the right
                  revision "). to access the data collected
                                                                              concerning and to obtain its rectification.
                  The revision proposal represents a 3. Compliance with these rules is subject to the
                  part of the revision of the Constitution by control of an independent authority. »




                                                            356
It should be noted that informational termination provisions ("informational
the Charter are addressed to “Selbstbestimmung Member States”).
only when they implement the
Union law” (Article 51 of the Charter). For this, the Court relied on the inviolabil-
follows that certain areas are excluded from the ity of human dignity of Article 1 of the
scope of the Charter at German constitutional level and the right to development
national329, which makes the introduction of the personality penalty (“freie Entfaltung
data protection in the constitution der Persönlichkeit”) provided for in Article 2 of the
all the more positive. Constitution.

The Second Sentence of Proposed Section 24 and This Right to Informational Self-Determination
the second paragraph of Article 8 of the was confirmed by subsequent judgments.
Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union
European differ in their formulations, however, to date, no
their meanings and their legal consequences explicitly in the federal constitution
which follow. The second German sentence.
proposed article 24 would imply, according to
the understanding of the CNPD that each On the other hand, today, a right to
purpose for which data of a data protection nature is provided in such a way
personnel are handled by an explicit manager by the constitutions of some
processing should be provided for by law. Lander.
The National Commission therefore wonders
on the intentions of the authors and the reasons As an example, we can mention:
of the wording of this provision. In a
concern for legal certainty and to avoid all - Article 4 paragraph (2) of the constitution of the
doubts relating to the constitutional interpretation Land of Rhineland-Palatinate:
planned, the CNPD strongly recommends
that the wording aligns with that of Article 8 “(1) Jeder Mensch hat das Recht, über
of the Charter. Die Erhebung und further Verarbeitung
                                                                             seiner personenbezogenen Daten sebst zu
       Comparative law bestimmen. Jeder Mensch hat das Recht
                                                                             auf Auskunft über ihn betreffende Daten und
          Germany auf Einsicht in amtliche Unterlagen, soweit
                                                                             diese solche Daten enthalten.
Dated December 15, 1983, in its famous
“Volkszählungsurteil”, the constitutional court- (2) Diese Rechte dürfen nur durch Gesetz
German society established the principle of autode- oder aufgrund eines Gesetzes eingeschränkt



329
      See on this subject: thematic factsheet "SCOPE OF APPLICATION OF THE CHARTER OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION", Court of Justice
      of the European Union, Directorate of Research and Documentation
      https://curia.europa.eu/jcms/upload/docs/application/pdf/2018-05/fiche_thematique_-_charte_-_fr.pdf



                                                                                   357
6 APPENDICES




          werden, soweit überwiegende Interessen that the right to respect for private life which
          der Allgemeinheit es erfordern. "                                       follows.

    - Article 4 paragraph (2) of the Constitution of The principle established by the judgment of 2012 was
      Land of North Rhine-Westphalia: confirmed by subsequent judgments of the Council
                                                                                  constitutional331.
          “(2) Jeder hat Anspruch auf Schutz
          seiner personenbezogenen Daten. Eingrif- The Constitution does not currently provide for any right
          fe sind nur in überwiegendem Interest der explicit in data protection.
          Allgemeinheit auf Grund eines Gesetzes zu-
          lässig. "                                                                       Belgium

    - Article 12a of the constitution of the Land of Hesse: The Belgian Constitutional Court has taken a certain
                                                                                  number of decisions aimed at guaranteeing the
          “Jeder Mensch ist berechtigt, über die Preis- data protection based on the
          gabe und Verwendung seiner personenbe- right to respect for private life provided for in Article
          zogenen Daten selbst zu bestimmen. 2Die 22 of the Belgian Constitution.
          Vertraulichkeit und Integrität information-
          technischer Systeme werden gewährleistet. However, the Constitution does not mention
          3
            Einschränkungen dieser Rechte bedürfen not data protection or the right to
          eines Gesetzes. » informational self-determination in a way
                                                                                  explicit.
              France
                                                                                      Conclusion
    In France, the Constitutional Council has, in
    2012, laid down the principle that “the The CNPD welcomes the introduction of the
    collection, registration, storage, protection of data in the Constitution,
    consultation and the communication of data which thus demonstrates the intention to devote this
    of a personal nature must be justified in principle at the highest level of the hierarchy
    by a reason of general interest and implemented Luxembourg legal standards, including
    in an adequate and proportionate manner, including for matters not falling
    the objective pursued” 330. of the scope of the Charter of
                                                                                  fundamental rights of the European Union.
    For this, the Constitutional Council has This intention has a character
    based on the precursor right to personal freedom, while it is not also enshrined
    guaranteed by article 2 of the Declaration of explicitly in the Constitutions of the
    rights of man and of the citizen of 1789 as well as neighboring countries, even if the interpretation


    330
          Decision no. 2012-652 DC of March 22, 2012, recital 8: https://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/decision/2012/2012652DC.htm
    331
          For example:
          - Decision no. 2013-681 DC of 05 December 2013, recital 27: https://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/decision/2013/2013681DC.htm
          - Decision no. 2014-690 DC of March 13, 2014, recital 51: https://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/decision/2014/2014690DC.htm



                                                            358
pull the aforementioned high courts go into
the same way.

Thus decided in Belvaux on October 29
2021.

The National Commission for the Protection of
data

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner




                                                     359
6
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                            APPENDICES



data relating to bill no. 7674 on
organization of access to knowledge of its origins
in the context of an adoption or procreation law”), as amended on May 4, 2021, and
medically assisted with third-party donors. as to the interactions of the latter with the
(Deliberation n°52/AV30/2021 of 29/11/2021) legal framework relating to the protection of personal data
                                                                          personal character. This notice follows the text
                                                                          coordinated as amended332.

                  In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, Self-referral by the National Commission
                  letter c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27 comes within the framework of the many
                  2016 relating to the protection of individuals processing personal data,
                  physical with regard to the processing of data including health data, carried out at the
                  of a personal nature and the free movement of purposes of the exercise of access to knowledge
                  these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ from its origins and affecting the most
                  CE (general regulation on the protection of the most intimate privacy of persons
                  data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which it is concerned.
                  refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
                  organization of the National Commission for Although the National Commission does not wish
                  data protection and the general regime in no way call into question the legitimacy of
                  on data protection, the Commission new measures introduced by the draft
                  National Data Protection Act (ci- law, however, it emphasizes that safeguards
                  after designating the “National Commission” sufficient with regard to compliance with the principles
                  or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the fundamentals of the right to protection of
                  law of the Member State, the national parliament, personal data must be
                  government and other institutions and implements. The National Commission
                  bodies about legislative measures therefore raises the need to provide for
                  and administrative measures relating to the protection of legal, organizational and
                  rights and freedoms of natural to technical persons in order to ensure a high level of
                  with regard to the treatment”. protection of personal data.

                  Not having been directly entered by I. Cross-sectional observations
                  Madam Minister of Justice, nor at the stadium
                  of the preliminary draft, nor at the stage of the bill, A. Introductory remarks
                  National Commission nevertheless wishes to
                  rule on bill n°7674 on As a preliminary point, it is necessary to raise a
                  organization of access to knowledge of the question as to the scope of the
                  its origins in the context of an adoption or bill under opinion. Indeed, the titles of
                  of medically assisted procreation second chapter, and in particular that of the
                  with third-party donors (hereafter the “draft of the first section of this chapter, encourage




                  332
                        Parliamentary document No. 7674/02.



                                                              360
think that only children born under secret or surrogacy”. Attention
which will subsequently be adopted would have the right to particular should therefore be granted to
know their origins, while children the articulation of the bill under notice with the
born under secret, and who will not be the subject of bill n°6568A.
of an adoption, would not have this
right. This interpretation is supported by Again as a preliminary point, it should be clarified
the title of the bill as well as by article 4, that the right of access to the origins of a child,
paragraph 3, which provides that “[t]reatment should not be confused with the right of access
of this data is necessary for the purposes of the of the data subject to data
implementation of the search for personal access concerning him as provided for in
child to its origins in the context of adoption Article 15 of the GDPR. In this regard, there is reason to
or medically assisted procreation recall that the right of access within the meaning of
with third-party donors. Article 15 of the GDPR confers on persons
                                                         concerned the right to directly address
However, the CNPD does not perceive the reason for this to the controller in order to request
difference in treatment, especially since it confirms that personal data
is impossible to know at the time of personnel concerning him are or are not
childbirth if the child will be treated. This same right confers on the person
adoption. Such a distinction would concern obtaining a copy of the data
consequence that children born under a personal nature who are the subject of a
secret and which are not subsequently adopted processing, provided that this copy does not
do not have the right to be communicated to does not infringe the rights and freedoms of others
the information that was collected at their (limitation provided for in Article 15, paragraph 4 of the
statement under the bill. GDPR). For example, a child concerned
                                                         could exercise its right of access on the basis of
In addition, bill n°6568A relating to article 15 of the GDPR with the hospital in
filiation reform as amended does not provide which he was born. The hospital in question is
no such difference in treatment in then held, taking into account any
to the extent that the new article 312bis of the Code limitations provided for in article 15 of the GDPR,
civil law provides that “[t]he child has the right to have, to communicate to the child all the
as far as possible, access to his data concerning him. However, this exercise of
origins. […]”. Commentary on the right of access articles based on article 15 of the GDPR
specifies that “[t]he provisions of this article should not be confused with the exercise of
are applicable whether it is access to the right of access to its origins that intends to put
data relating to a person's origins in place this bill insofar as this
in the event of childbirth under X, adoption last right of access is addressed to another
plenary, of medically assisted procreation responsible for processing (the Minister in




                                                                361
6 APPENDICES




    the case) and can hardly be limited as per letter c) of the GDPR, namely that the processing is
    than the right of access provided for by the GDPR (not necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
    copy if the request infringes the rights to which the controller is
    and freedoms of others - article 15, paragraph 4 of the submitted.
    GDPR).
                                                                                    However, Article 6, paragraph 3 of the GDPR provides
    In addition, section 1 of the bill provides
                                      er
                                                                                    that “[t]he basis of the processing referred to in
    that "access to one's origins does not give rise to any rights paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:
    nor obligation for the benefit or at the expense of anyone
    it would be ". This provision is particularly 1. Union law; Or
    ambiguous, given that the objective of the project
    of law is precisely to establish the right to 2. the right of the Member State to which the
    access to its origins. It also creates sand from the treatment is subjected.
    obligations, such as for example in article
    20 which provides, in the context of procreation The purposes of the processing are defined
    medically assisted with third-party donors (herein in this legal basis or, as far as
    after “PMA”), the obligation for the authors relates to the processing referred to in paragraph
    of the parental plan to make the declaration 1, point e), are necessary for the execution
    spontaneous certain information to the Minister of a mission of public interest or falling
    having in its attributions the bill of law (herein the exercise of the public authority which is
    after “minister”). The National Commission invests the data controller. This
    considers, with regard to the commentary to the articles, legal basis may contain provisions
    that it was the intention of the authors of the specific projects to adapt the application
    of law not to create obligations and rights of the rules of this regulation, between
    in matters of parentage. It therefore agrees with the others: the general conditions governing
    suggestion made by the Council of State in its lawfulness of processing by the controller
    opinion of July 16, 2021333 to delete this article. processing; the types of data that
                                                                                            are being processed; the people
               B. As to Article 6, paragraph 3, of the concerned; the entities to which the
                  GDPR personal data may
                                                                                            be communicated and the purposes for
    According to Article 6, paragraph 1 of the GDPR, one which they may be; limitation
    processing is only lawful if at least one of the purposes; retention periods;
    of the conditions listed therein is met. The and the processing operations and procedures
    National Commission understands that the project, including the measures to
    law under notice intends to create a condition to guarantee lawful and fair processing, such as
    lawfulness within the meaning of Article 6, paragraph 1 than those provided for in other situations.




    333
          Opinion n°60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of one's origins in the
          in the context of adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.4.



                                                              362
particular processing conditions as a legal basis or a legislative measure
      Chapter IX provides for this. Union law does not necessarily mean that
      or the law of the Member States responds to the adoption of a legislative act by a parliament
      objective of public interest and is proportionate is required, without prejudice to the obligations pre-
      to the legitimate objective pursued. » views under the constitutional order of the state
                                                           concerned member. However, this basis
This article provides for a particular legal constraint or this legislative measure should
related to the lawfulness of data processing be clear and precise and its application should
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation be foreseeable for litigants, comply with
or the performance of a mission of public interest lies with the case law of the Court of Justice of
or subject to the exercise of public authority the European Union and the European Court
with which the controller is responsible. human rights ".
In these two cases, the basis and
the purposes of the data processing must Although the draft law provides a basis
specifically be defined either by the legal right for the processing in question in
the European Union, or by the law of the State specifying a certain number of elements, such as
member to which the data controller that the purposes of the processing or the
is submitted. data retention period, some
                                                           points are not sufficiently specified
In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR clarifies in the bill.
that it should “[..] belong to the law of the Union
or the right of a Member State to determine The CNPD will return to this point later
the purpose of the processing. Moreover, this right but already wishes to raise the mention,
could specify the general conditions of the in the financial statement of the project under notice, of the
this regulation governing the legality of the processing- creation of a "computer tool for the
personal data, establish custody of confidential data
the specifications to determine the respon- highly sensitive '. Indeed, neither the project
nature of the processing, the type of legal data itself, nor the explanatory memorandum
personal data subject to the processing, the reference to this IT tool.
data subjects, entities to which
personal data can There is, therefore, reason to wonder about its
be communicated, the limitations of the purpose, use within the framework of the exercise of
retention period and other measures access to origins, in particular with regard to
aimed at ensuring lawful and fair processing […]”. concerns a possible data processing
                                                           of a personal nature made using this
Recital (41) of the GDPR further states that tool. What data are required to appear
“[w]here this regulation refers in this tool? How is this tool




                                                                  363
6 APPENDICES




    fed? In the context of childbirth Thus, article 5 of the bill provides that
    under secrecy in particular, does the hospital establishment have to inform the
    means that an authorized person opens the secret delivery ministers and
    folds received to then insert the information to provide the birth parents with some
    in the computer tool? What is then the number of information. The same obligations
    out of the physical medium? Are there any other supervising professionals
    subcontractors act in the exploitation and the birth which takes place in another place
    the management of this tool? It should be a hospital facility.
    answer these different questions in the
    text of the bill. Security measures Under article 6 of the bill, it is the responsibility of
    technical and organizational aspects appropriate to the hospital establishment or to any other
    and adapted to the risks, taking into account the professional who supervised the birth of
    sensitivity of the data, will in any case have to collect a certain amount of information
    of cause be put in place by the one or more concerning the birth parents and
    controllers in accordance with forwarding to the Minister.
    in Article 32 of the GDPR. Furthermore, in case of
    use of subcontractors, the obligations Within the framework of Articles 16 and 17 which deal with
    which fall both on the person responsible for "other national adoptions" and on
    treatment only to subcontractors in application "international adoptions", other actors
    of articles 28 and 29 of the GDPR will be called upon to provide information, namely
    to apply. the “judicial authorities”, “the central authority
                                                                    for adoption within the meaning of the Convention of
          II. As for the roles of the various inter- The Hague of 29 May 1993 on the protection of
              new children and cooperation in matters of adoption
                                                                    international, authorized bodies and
    Although there is reason to congratulate the authors of the authorizations for adoption in accordance with the
    bill for having taken care to determine the law of 31 January 1998 on the approval of
    Minister as controller334, adoption services and definition of obligations
    inaccuracies as to the roles of the different incumbent on them" and "any other organization or
    stakeholders remain. national authority intervened within the framework of
                                                                    adoption”.
    Indeed, it appears from the commentary of the articles
    that hospitals play a Articles 19 and 20 of Chapter 3 (access to
    important role during childbirth with knowledge of its origins within the framework
    secret insofar as they constitute the most of a medically assisted procreation with
    often "the first and only contact of third-party donors) of the bill introduce
    future mothers in question”335. still other actors likely to provide




    334
          Article 4, paragraph 1 of the bill.
    335
          See commentary on article 5 of the bill.



                                                              364
personal data, i.e. full, joint controllers of the
the “authors of the parental project”, the “treatment centers or as subcontractors.
of fertilization" as well as "any doctor
responsible for implementing procreation Furthermore, as according to the current wording
medically assisted”. of the text the Minister is to be considered as
                                                                               sole controller, the Commission
If article 4, paragraph 1 of the draft national law asks whether this observation implies
expressly determines the Minister as that there is creation of a centralized file of
data controller, there is no data to be considered as highly
such clarity for the other actors. Indeed the sensitive ones. Indeed, the obligation incumbent upon
other actors set out by the bill, such different actors to provide information
that, for example, the hospital establishment to the controller implies that
or any other professional having supervised the these occupy a function of source
birth as part of the delivery of information from the Minister who, for his part,
under secrecy, even for the PMA the authors of the preserves and manages the information.
parental project or fertility centers,
or for other national adoptions and In this context, attention should be drawn
international judicial authorities or the authors of the draft law on the guidelines
the central authority for adoption, occupy a trices drawn up by the European Committee for the
essential role in the collection of data Data protection which serves as guidance
and their subsequent transmission to the actors in the determination of their roles
to the controller. respective for data processing
                                                                               personal336.
However, it is important to determine in the
bill the role of the various stakeholders III. As for the purposes
while the notions of "responsible for the
processing”, “joint data controller- Under the principle of limitation of
ment” and “subcontractor” are essential purposes provided for in Article 5, paragraph 1,
for the application of the GDPR to the extent letter b), of the GDPR, personal data
where they determine who is responsible for staff should be “collected for
compliance with the rules relating to the protection of specific, explicit and legitimate purposes”.
data and how the people con- The objectives pursued must be chosen
born can exercise their rights. and known before the start of treatment.
                                                                               In addition, they must be defined in such a way
The bill should therefore specify and refer to one or more
clearly if all these stakeholders have specific goals (determined purposes and
consider as explicit controllers).




336
      Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR.



                                                                                         365
6 APPENDICES




    If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the project would be implemented by the Minister in the
    of law for having specified the purposes of the framework of the bill.
    processing that would be implemented by the
    Minister in Article 4, paragraph 3, of the draft For example, and as noted by the
    law, the provisions are however drafted by the Council of State, in its opinion of July 16
    too vaguely in that they are limited to 2021, as to the provisions of Article 25,
    provide that “[t]he processing of such data paragraph (3), of the bill which provide
    is necessary for the purposes of implementation that the Minister may consult the archives
    the search for a child's access to its rights of the court that granted the adoption
    origins in the context of adoption or a or if necessary consult the records of
    medically assisted procreation with third-party international protections if there is any indication that
    donors”. one or both birth parents were
                                                                                       beneficiaries of such protection, that a
    In fact, on reading the bill, such consultation "lies in research
    to note that the search for access has clues to the identity of the birth parents.
    child to his or her origins mainly hinges on The Council of State considers that, in a
    around four objectives: data protection perspective, this involves
                                                                                       for a purpose which must be mentioned in the
    - the constitution of dossiers by the text minister”337.
      on the basis of information received under
      Articles 6, 10(3°), 10(4°), 10(5°), 20, 27 or In addition, Article 10 of the bill, points 9° and
      sought under Articles 16, 17 and 25 10°, provides that the Minister has the task of
      paragraph 3; “to manage and process the information collected” and
    - the management by the Minister of requests “to review and manage requests for access to
      of access received by children by virtue of knowledge of their origins of persons
      Articles 11 and 22 of the bill; referred to in Article 11”.
    - the management by the Minister of requests from the
      or birth parents inquiring about In addition, under article 21 point 3° of the draft
      possible research by the child under the law, the Minister still has the task of “to
      Article 10 (6°) of the bill; receive, manage and process information
    - the communication to the children of their referred to in Article 20”.
      records and/or information collected.
                                                                                       However, in the absence of explanations in the
    Thus, the provisions of article 4, paragraph commentary of the articles, it is necessary to
    3 of the bill are too general in questioning the processing of data
    what they do not allow to cover the personnel who would be implemented in
    plurality of processing purposes within the framework of this mission.



    337
          See observations made by the Council of State on article 25 of the bill in its opinion n°60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State
          on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of one's origins in the context of adoption or procreation
          medically assisted with third-party donors, p.14.



                                                                366
The National Commission wonders if it does not 95/46/EC (general regulation on the protection
would not be appropriate to clarify the different data). Since this regulation
processing of data that would be put in European is of direct application, the provision
implemented by the Minister within the framework of his under review should be deleted. 338 The Commission
missions, also with a view to improving national agrees with the observation of the Council
legal certainty. This would indeed state.
to improve the general understanding of the project
of law and to guarantee legal certainty. IV. As for the categories of data to be
                                                                                          personal character
It follows from the foregoing that it appears that the
purpose described in Article 4(3) of the draft It should be noted that Article 4 of the draft
of law seems too vague compared to the requirement of law which “constitutes the legal basis for the
of the GDPR to provide for specific purposes management, collection and processing of data
and explicit, especially in a field so involved”339 does not specify the categories of
sensitive that is supposed to regulate the project of data that would be collected by the Minister
law under notice. “for the purpose of implementing research
                                                                                   of a child's access to his or her origins in
For all intents and purposes, the commentary shows the context of adoption or procreation
articles as article 4, paragraph 5 of the medically assisted with third party donors”340.
bill aims to specify the various
obligations incumbent on the Minister as In addition, and as noted by the Council of State,
controller. However, paragraph (4) of the aforementioned article 4341 should be
to note that the enumeration made there is limited to superfluous “[a] lack of listing the
copy certain principles listed in the article data processed or refer to the provision
5 GDPR. specifies who is listing the data”.

In its opinion of July 16, 2021, the Board Indeed, it should be noted that the categories
of State notes, in fact, that “[t]he paragraph of data which would be processed at such
5 merely recalls the principles set out for the purposes resulting from the provisions of Articles 6, 10,
in article 5 of regulation (EU) 2016/679 of 11, 16, 17, 20, 22, 25, 26 and 27 of the bill.
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April
2016 relating to the protection of persons Articles 6, 10 and 11 are part of Chapter 2
physical with regard to data processing “Access to knowledge of one’s origins
of a personal nature and freedom of movement in the context of an adoption”, section 1
of these data, and repealing the “National adoption” directive, sub-section 1



338
      Opinion n°60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of one's origins within the framework
      adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.5.
339
      See commentary to articles, article 4, page 15.
340
      Article 4, paragraph (3) of the bill.
341
       Article 4, paragraph (4) of the draft law provides that “[in] this context personal data are processed which are referred to
      by this bill”.



                                                                                             367
6 APPENDICES




    “Secret childbirth”, article 16 of Or, such treatments require a pro-
    sub-section “Other adoptions specific section342 and are subject to specific
    national” and article 17 of section 2 more stringent requirements. The treatment of
    “International adoption” of the said chapter. “sensitive data” is, in fact, prohibited
                                                                                        unless one of the conditions referred to in para-
    Articles 20 and 22 belong to Chapter 2 of Article 9 of the GDPR is fulfilled.
    3 “Access to knowledge of one’s origins
    in the context of medical procreation Thus, during the implementation of treatments
    assisted with third-party donor" and articles 25 of so-called sensitive data, the person in charge
    to 27 are part of Chapter 5 “Provisions of processing shall pay particular attention
    transitional arrangements and entry into force”. compliance with the provisions of article 9,
                                                                                        paragraph (2) of the GDPR.
    It would indeed be preferable, as suggested
    by the Council of State, to group together in a B. As for personal data
    single article and to enumerate according to the cases referred to in the provisions of
    of figure (childbirth under X, adoption chapter 2 of the bill
    national, international adoption, PMA), the
    categories of data that would be processed. 1. Ad article 6 of the bill
    Alternatively, it could be considered to
    include a list at the beginning of each Article 6 of the bill deals with the various
    chapter the categories of data which information that the hospital establishment
    would be processed in the implementation of this or any other professional having supervised
    chapter. birth are led to collect and
                                                                                        forward to the Minister.
                A. Regarding Article 9 of the GDPR
                                                                                                       i. The legal uncertainty linked to the impre-
    First of all, it should be noted that in deciding the terms used
    to the extent that part of the data processed by
    controller are likely The terms used in Article 6 are vague
    to be related to the health of the parents so that it is difficult to know what
    birth, for deliveries under secret information would be likely to be
    and national and international adoptions, collected and forwarded to the Minister and, where
    or third party donors, for any procreation, to the child.
    medically assisted, these are at
    qualify as special categories of data, Indeed, it appears from that article that the parents
    so-called “sensitive data”, within the meaning of the birth article are invited to leave “information
    9 GDPR. medical information on [their] health, and that of




    342
          See the cases rendered by the CJEU of April 8, 1992, C-62/90, point 23 and of October 5, 1994, C-404/92, point 17.



                                                                 368
the other birth parent, information Article 6, paragraph 3, of the bill
on the origins of the child, the circumstances still provide for the obligation for the establishment
of the child from birth as well as any other hospital as well as any other professional
information that [they] wish[s] to put to having supervised the birth to collect
disposal of [their] child”343. “non-identifying information”. Authors
                                                                                        of the bill again bring into their
The authors of the bill in the commentary commentary of the articles no details
articles specify on this subject that parents as to the information that would be collected.
of birth are invited to leave "any
kind of information” and that the information Furthermore, it should be noted that Article 12
aforesaid constitute "non- information of the bill hereafter uses the terms
identifiers” 344. "information not infringing
                                                                                        the identity of one or more birth parents”.
The authors of the bill do not provide as soon as The CNPD assumes that it is “information
no non-identifying explanations of what is to be understood” referred to in Article 6. In order
by “non-identifying information”. to avoid confusion, it is suggested to use
                                                                                        the same terminology throughout the entire
It should be pointed out, however, that the GDPR bill.
shall apply to any information
relating to an identical natural person. Finally, it should also be noted that the right
tified or identifiable. Recital 26 of the is left to the birth parents to make
GDPR specifies that “[t]o determine whether a declaration of his identity346, in which case
natural person is identifiable, this information should be considered as
to take into consideration all personal data.
means reasonably likely to be
used by the controller or The CNPD assumes that the authors of the project
by any other person to identify the law under notice were inspired by French law.
natural person directly or indirectly-çaise of 2 August 2021 relating to bioethics who
is lying […] ". provides that in the context of a PMA third parties
                                                                                        donors must provide not only their
Thus, the CNPD suggests that the identity, but also data "not
accumulation of information, even qualified as identifying information”. Indeed, article 5 of the said law
"non-identifying", involves the risk of a French woman inserting a chapter in the code of the
(re)identification of the natural person in public health on “Access to data not
question, resulting in the applica- identifiers and to the identity of the third-party donors
tion of the rules relating to the protection of”. This chapter includes the article
data. L.2143-3. which includes a list of donations


343
      Article 6, paragraph 1, point 2° and paragraph 2, point 1° of the bill.
344
      Commentary on the articles, article 6 page 17.
345
      Article 4(1) GDPR.
346
      Article 6, paragraph (1), points 2° and 3°, and paragraph (2), points 2° and 3° of the bill.



                                                                                                   369
6 APPENDICES




    non-identifying data from third-party donors, to whom is necessary with regard to the purposes for
    know: their age, their general condition as they are treated.
    describe at the time of donation, their characteristics
    physical conditions, their family and pro- Necessity is assessed in relation to
    profession, their country of birth as well as the purpose of the processing as defined by
    the motivations for their donation, written by their authors of the bill, namely "the implementation
    care. a child's work of seeking access
                                                                                   to its origins […]”348. However, as mentioned in
    Consequently, in view of the vagueness in point II.B. vagueness as to the purposes
    of the terms used by the authors of the researched project, do not make it possible to determine
    of law and the resulting legal vagueness, it is appropriate to what extent the treatment of these
    to find that the bill under notice given is necessary to exercise the right to
    does not meet the requirements of clarity, of knowing one's origins.
    precision and predictability to which a
    legal text must meet, in accordance with ii. Data processing concerns
    case law of the Court of Justice of the Union relating to health
    European Union and the European Court of Human Rights
    of man347. Article 6, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the draft
                                                                                   law provides for the possibility for the parent who has
    In order to counter this legal uncertainty as to the birth of the child, to leave “information
    to the categories of data that would be medically processed on his health and that of the other
    and to ensure the conformity of the legal framework parent of birth” or respectively
    Luxembourg to the GDPR and to case law for the other birth parent to leave
    European Union, the CNPD suggests to the authors “medical information on his health and that
    of the bill to specify, like the law of the parent who gave birth to the child”.
    French on bioethics of August 2
    2021, which categories of data would be In addition, Article 6(3) of the draft
    likely to be dealt with by the Minister. law creates the obligation for the establishment
                                                                                   hospital as well as for any other profession-
    In any case, the imprecision of the terms nel having framed the birth of "collect
    employees complicates, if not makes impossible, the as far as possible […] of the data
    task of the National Commission to assess the medical conditions of one or both parents of births
    whether the bill respects the principle of sance at birth and pass them on
    minimization of data devoted to the article to the Minister”.
    5, paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR according to which
    personal data must This information relating to the health of pa-
    be adequate, relevant and limited to this birth allowance, and if these constitute


    347
          In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
          Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619. See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n°47413/06], § 228-229,
          December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.
    348
          Article 4, paragraph 3, of the bill



                                                             370
personal data, constitute refers in this respect to its developments on the
so-called sensitive data. The processing of compliance with the principle of accuracy in point VIII of the
such data must therefore be based on one of this notice.
conditions referred to in Article 9(2) of
GDPR. On this point, reference is made to point A of It should also be noted that the imprecision
point IV of this opinion. use of the words "as far as possible"
                                                                                   included in Article 6, paragraph 3, of the draft law
Furthermore, it is regrettable that ni results in legal vagueness, so as to note
the explanatory memorandum nor the commentary on the terms that the draft law under opinion does not respect
articles do not provide explanations as to the requirements of clarity, precision and
the methods of processing “predictability data to which a legal text must re-
medical”. lay, in accordance with the case law of the
                                                                                   Court of Justice of the European Union and of the
In this context, the National Commission European Court of Human Rights350.
agrees with the concerns raised by the
Council of State with regard to article 6 of the draft In addition, it is still necessary to question the ar-
law and in particular in that it considers that the link between the obligation for the establishment
“[i]f parents are not invited to reve- hospitable, as well as for any other profession-
the identity of the other parent, they can nel having framed the birth, provided for by the ar-
nevertheless leave medical information ticle 6, paragraph 3, of the bill, and secrecy
on the other parent. However, it is up to each pa-medical to which these people are subjected.
ent to decide if he wants to communicate the in-
medical training on his health. Comment 2. Ad section 10 of the bill
articulate the choice left to the parent not to
communicate their medical data with the Article 10, point 5°, of the bill provides
possibility for the other parent to provide them to which the Minister is required to receive “[t]
his knowledge? If the legislator allows each of the declarations of identity formulated by the
parents not to communicate the information ascendants, descendants and collaterals of
questions about his health or his identity, he is parents by birth”.
difficult to see how to articulate respect for
these respective secrets. However, the bill does not provide other
                                                                                   clarifications or explanations as to the categories
In this context, the National Commission collects personal data which appears-
raises the question of how they were responsible for the so-called “identity declarations”.
sand of the treatment intends to respect the principle
cipation of accuracy, provided for in Article 5, paragraph In addition, there is reason to question how
1, letter d) of the GDPR. The National Commission from which this data would be collected:

349
      Opinion n°60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of one's origins within the framework
      adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.6 to 8
350
      In this sense, see M. Besch, “Personal data processing in the public sector”, Norms and legislation in public law
      Luxembourgish, Luxembourg, Promoculture Larcier, 2019, p.469, n°619. See among others CourEDH, Zakharov e. Russia [GCL n°47413/06], § 228-229,
      December 4, 2015, ECtHR, Vavřička and others v. Czech Republic (applications n°47621/13 and 5 others), § 276 to 293, 8 April 2021.



                                                                                             371
6 APPENDICES




    does it belong to the ascendants, descendants of a national adoption but not falling
    and collaterals to go directly to the secret delivery regime,
    minister ? How will the minister ensure it follows from clause 16 of the bill that the
    that declarations of identity are attributed minister “collects information relating to
    to the child concerned, given that only the identity of the parent who gave birth to the child and of
    first names and sex of the child as well as the date of birth of the other parent with the authorities
    and place of birth (not legal identity).
    birth parents) are mentioned
    outside the envelopes referred to in article 6 of the Gold draft, neither the commentary on the articles, nor the presentation
    of law ? Will the Minister verify whether there are grounds specifying what is meant
    effectively a relationship between these by “identity information”. Is-
    people and birth parents? it only of the name and first name or this notion
                                                           Does it also cover other data, such as
    Under sections 13 and 14 of the bill, for example the address?
    minister communicates, together with the identity
    of the parent who gave birth to the child or of the other In addition, the bill does not specify the modalities
    birth parent, the information referred to in Articles according to which the Minister would obtain from
    point 5 of article 10. Does this mean such “information”.
    that the declarations of identity of the ascendants,
    descendants and collaterals of the parent who has Clarifications should be made
    given birth to the child are communicated to about it in article 16 of the bill in order to
    the child, even if only the other parent to clarify what data would be collected
    birth granted the lifting of the secrecy of ties and in what way the minister collects them
    his identity, and vice versa? Such a way would be.
    to proceed would nevertheless thwart their
    desire to remain anonymous and would infringe 4. Ad section 17 of the bill
    to the privacy of their private life. The Commission
    National Authority considers that the authors of the draft Article 17 of the draft law intends to regulate the management
    of law should specify the practical procedures for requests for access to origins made
    Rules applicable to declarations of identity by adopted children
    formulated by ascendants, descendants and internationally.
    collaterals of birth parents.
                                                           Under the provisions of the aforementioned article,
          3. Ad article 16 of the draft law the Minister may obtain “upon request” from
                                                           the share of the bodies referred to in that article
    For requests for access to origins "all information relating to the origins
    formulated by adopted children”.




                                              372
However, this formulation is particularly of the consents required and the reasons for its
vague and needs clarification. In observation of the investment, taking care not to
Indeed, there is reason to wonder what the identity of the mother and father will reveal, if, in
authors of the bill wanted to hear by the State of origin, this identity cannot be
“information relating to the origins of disclosed”.
adopted". What information would be covered
concretely ? Therefore, the National Commission wonders
                                                       what additional information for-
The Minister may also obtain "from the data, if any, to be collected while
authorities of the country of origin of the child all the above provisions provide that a report
information he can obtain on the origins of the child will be transmitted to the Central Authority.
of the child". This wording is also relevant to the host State.
particularly vague. What information
could the Minister collect from the C. As for the personal data
foreign authorities? staff referred to in Chapter 3 of the
                                                                law Project
In this regard, it should be noted that the Convention
of the Hague of 29 May 1993 on the protection of Article 20 establishes the obligation of authors of
of the children and the cooperation in terms of the parental plan to be provided to the person responsible
international adoption already has available to the Minister, the information
in its article 16, paragraph 1, letter a) that: listed in points 1° to 4° of said article.

“If the Central Authority in the State of origin considers the inclusion of a list
determines that the child is adoptable, a) it establishes certain information to be provided to the
a report containing information on a minister, it is appropriate to question the
the identity of the child, his adoptability, his environment information which would be referred to in the last
social, his personal and family development, his paragraph of paragraph 1 of article 20 which
medical history and that of his family, as well as on states that "any other information available
their special needs; (…)”. on the third-party donor(s) may also
                                                       be communicated”.
In addition, the Hague Convention of 29 May
1993 on the protection of children and the coo- Indeed, the notion of “all information” is
very vague statement on intercountry adoption and the commentary on the articles
still explicitly provided for in Article 16, does not provide any clarification in this regard.
paragraph 2 that the Central Authority of the State
of origin “sends to the Central Authority of Or, it should be recalled that under the principle
the receiving State its report on the child, proof of minimization of data, dedicated




                                                              373
6 APPENDICES




    in article 5, paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR, the information to be provided is set out in point 4°
    personal data must be of the 1st paragraph of article 20 “the identity of the
    adequate, relevant and limited to what is or third party donors including name, surname,
    necessary with regard to the purposes for the - date and place of birth, nationality(ies), address
    which they are processed. current, marital status as well as the number of
                                                          number if it exists”.
    In the absence of such details, the CNPD is not
    not in a position to assess whether such a principle However, the National Commission wonders about the
    would be respected and therefore considers the initial source of this information necessary. Is he
    that the bill determines precisely belongs to the fertilization centre, to the doctor
    what personal data would be cin responsible for implementing procreation
    likely to be reported to the Minister. medically assisted, to the authors of the project
                                                          parent or another intervener still ins-
    In the current state of the bill, the authors write this information in the file referred to in
    of the parental project could deem appropriate ticle 19?
    to transmit to the Minister data referred to as
    sensitive, such as for example data The question arises in particular in the
    concerning the health of the third-party donor(s), context of the obligation of the person responsible for
    who are nevertheless subject to a more processing regime to inform the data subject.
    strict. The National Commission refers to this Indeed, the National Commission includes
    with regard to its developments in point IV.A. that within the framework of a PMA, the collection of
    this notice. personal data of the third party given
                                                          by the actors involved, namely the res-
    Furthermore, it should be noted that the responsible obligation of the treatment, the authors of the project
    providing this information is the responsibility of the parent, the fertilization center or even
    in accordance with Article 20, paragraph 1 of any doctor responsible for implementing the
    bill under notice, to the parents of the medically assisted procreation project, is operated
    parental. The CNPD notes that Article 19 of the DIR indirectly, therefore the information
    bill further provides that "the center of are not collected directly from
    fertilization, any doctor responsible for putting in the person concerned. However, article 14 of the GDPR
    implement medically assisted procreation obliges the controller to provide
    as well as the authors of the parental project have certain information to the person concerned.
    the obligation to verify whether the information born when the personal data
    listed in Article 20, point 4 are found have not been collected from the person
    in the file before the insemination of the concerned. Article 14, paragraph 2, letter
    gametes or the implantation of embryos f), of the GDPR requires in particular that the responsible
    supernumeraries”. She further notes that among the sands of the treatment informs about "the source from which




                                            374
come from the personal data - communicate elements relating to the identity
name and, where applicable, a statement indicating the birth parents or any other information.
whether or not they come from sources acces- sion, file and material object left by the
accessible to the public”. The National Commission refers the birth parents to the Minister within the
asks who would be responsible for this obligation, cases referred to in the previous paragraph in a letter
or even any other obligation arising from the GDPR, closed”.
if, as mentioned in point II of this notice,
the roles (controller, respon- According to the commentary on the articles, this
sand of the joint processing or subcontractor) provision constitutes the legal basis for these
of the various stakeholders is unclear. various stakeholders to "transfer all the
                                                     records they hold to the Minister" without
In the absence of details, the CNPD sees itself in however specifying what would be the data
the impossibility of verifying whether the requirements of a personal nature that would be collected
GDPR towards the data subject would be this occasion.
complied with by the bill under notice.
                                                     If there is reason to salute the authors of the draft
      D. As regards data of a per- law nature to create a legal basis allowing
         personnel covered by the provisions of the aforementioned stakeholders to communicate to the mid-
         Chapter 5 of the bill lists the information they may have gathered
                                                     before the entry into force of the law, in the absence
      1. Ad article 25 of the bill for clarifications regarding the categories of donations
                                                     born of a personal nature which would be
It emerges from the commentary to the articles that communicated in this context, the Commission
article 25 of the bill is aimed at children born national is not in a position to assess whether the
before the entry into force of the future law in the principle of minimization of data would be in
context of a secret birth. species respected.

Paragraph 2, subparagraph 1, of article 25 states- It should be recalled that by virtue of the principle of
posits that “[t]hospital establishments, minimization, personal data
other professionals who supervised the birth must be adequate, relevant and limited
care of the child […], as well as the organizations to what is necessary with regard to the purposes
authorized and qualified for the adoption in accordance with which they are processed.
in accordance with the law of 31 January 1998 approving
ment of adoption services and definition of In accordance with this principle, the various
obligations incumbent upon them and any other aforementioned parties should therefore
national body or authority involved ensure that only the information
in the context of the adoption have the obligation of adequate personal data,




                                                            375
6 APPENDICES




    relevant and limited to what is necessary communicated to the Minister, it should be noted
    with regard to the purposes for which they are intended, that the terms "any other information
    processed. tion, dossier” are too vague so that the
                                                            CNPD is unable to assess whether the principal
    Finally, insofar as the following terms cipe of minimization would be respected.
    “have an obligation to communicate
    elements relating to the identity of the parents of The authors of the bill should bring
    birth or any other information, record details in this regard.
    and material object left by the parent(s)
    of birth to the minister” are worded from Furthermore, it should be noted that such
    vaguely, and that the commentary on the obligations does not exist under Articles 16 and 17
    ticles does not provide any clarification in this regard, the of the bill, therefore would it not be appropriate
    National Commission therefore considers it necessary to align this transitional provision with what
    know that the bill specifically determines is provided for in these articles?
    what personal data would be
    likely to be communicated to the Minister. V. Access to the RNPP and registers
                                                                 civil status
          2. Ad article 26 of the bill
                                                            Pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 1, letter c)
    Under article 26 of the bill, aiming at the GDPR, personal data
    other domestic adoptions as well as must be adequate, relevant and limited
    international adoptions, the organizations y to what is necessary with regard to the purposes
    mentioned have the obligation to communicate for which they are processed.
    “elements relating to the identity of the pa-
    birth annuities or any other information, Article 4, paragraph 6 of the draft law provides
    file and material object left by the Minister(s) the possibility for the Minister to consult the
    birth parents to the Minister […] in a national register of natural persons envelope (here
    closed” and that “the first names given to the child after the “RNPP”) as well as the state registers
    and, where appropriate, mention of the fact that they have it civil.
    been by the birthmother or other parent
    of birth to the competent minister as well as The provision is limited to indicating that the
    the sex of the child and the date, place and time of the controller has this
    his birth are mentioned outside of access “within the framework of the determined purpose
    these folds”. in paragraph 3”. Neither the commentary of
                                                            articles, nor the explanatory memorandum provide
    If the authors of the clarification project are to be congratulated as to the reasons which would justify a
    law for having specified the data that would be such access.




                                             376
However, there is reason to wonder about the articulation of the international in its jurisdiction? Or is it
these provisions with those relating to Article 9 of direct access? The National Commission
of the bill which provide that no investigation yet asks whether the data from this
would be carried out concerning the consultation information will be integrated into the file
provided by the parent who delivered the child or centralized managed by the Minister.
the other birth parent.
                                                                                   Furthermore, it is necessary to join the
Thus, there is reason to wonder whether the consul- observations of the Council of State as to the
tation of the RNPP and civil status registers purpose of such consultation which should be
would allow the controller to add to the purposes mentioned in Article 4,
check the reality of the relationship between these paragraph 3, of the bill under opinion351.
people and birth parents? In
a concern for legal certainty, clarifications VII. On the security of the processing
should be made to the bill at this
subject. It should also be remembered that the rules
                                                                                   applicable to the protection of
The CNPD is therefore unable to apply the data independently of the
assess whether consultation of the RNPP and the techniques used, i.e. both for
registers of civil status respects the principle of data called to be contained in a
minimization of the data provided for in article 5, paper file than a computer file.
paragraph 1, letter c) of the GDPR.
                                                                                   This reminder seems necessary given that, for
      VI. On access to the archives of legal adoptions following childbirth
          tion as referred to in Article 25 of the secret draft, for example, the information
          provided, including personal data
                                                                                   sonnel, seem to be written on paper in
Article 25, paragraph 3 of the bill a closed fold. The folds are then transmitted to the
provides that the minister “may consult the ministers.
records of the court that pronounced
adoption as well as protection files With regard to the security of the processing, the
with the Minister having point 4 of paragraph 5 of article 4 of the draft
international protection within its jurisdiction”. of law indicates that the controller
                                                                                   must put in place technical measures
The National Commission wonders what and organizational to ensure safety
what the verb “to consult” means. Is about- and the confidentiality of personal data
it of a request for access that the personal minister, without however giving details
filed with the Minister having any protection.




351
      Opinion n°60.376 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the bill on the organization of access to knowledge of one's origins within the framework
      adoption or medically assisted procreation with third-party donors, p.5.



                                                                                             377
6 APPENDICES




    However, this general security obligation requires the logging data to be kept
    both of Article 5, paragraph 1, letter f) of for a period of five years from their
    GDPR which enshrines the principle of integrity and recording, after which time they are
    confidentiality as of Article 32 of the GDPR which are erased, except when they are the subject of a
    further clarifies the notion of security of control procedures.
    data in the context of the protection of
    personal data. The CNPD also emphasizes the importance of carrying out
                                                        proactively internal controls. AT
    In this case, the obligation of the controller to this effect, it is appropriate in accordance with Article
    32, paragraph 1, letter d) of the GDPR to ensure an appropriate level of security
    to the risks for the rights and freedoms of the implements a procedure “aimed at testing,
    natural persons concerned by the treat- analyze and regularly assess the effectiveness
    processing of personal data, technical and organizational measures
    deserves special attention insofar as to ensure the safety of the processing”.
    where unauthorized access to data,
    data leaks or even modifications In addition, the National Commission considers
    undesired are likely to cause a feeling, given the sensitivity of certain
    serious harm to the persons concerned. data processed, to provide for the terms of
                                                        implementation of this principle of integrity and
    Thus, given the nature of confidentiality data in a legislative text
    dealt with in question, it is essential that of or at least of a regulatory nature.
    such security measures are implemented
    implemented by the controller in order to VIII. The rights of people
    to ensure the confidentiality and security of the persons concerned
    data. Among these security measures, the
    National Commission considers it important that As birth parents are
    only people who need it in likely to qualify as people
    the exercise of their relevant functions and tasks within the meaning of the GDPR for
    professionals are authorized to have access to the processing of data resulting from the project
    to the necessary data. of law, it should be recalled that Article 5,
                                                        paragraph 1, letter a) as well as articles
    In the event that a computer tool 12, 13 and 14 of the GDPR require the controller
    would be used to process the data in question, the processing to act in complete transparency
    which seems to be the case in view of the sheet with regard to the persons concerned in their
    of the bill, it would be necessary, in particular, to provide certain information
    to provide a logging system for the processing of personal data
    access. On this point, the CNPD recommends that personnel considered.




                                          378
In the event that the Minister collects to draw the attention of the authors of the bill
indirectly personal data on the fact that the latter has a right to
personal, as appears to result from the information under Article 14 of the GDPR
in particular of article 5, 16 or even 17 of or even a right of rectification, which
bill, the Minister will have to respect the is conferred by article 16 of the RGPD. He should
provisions of Article 14 of the GDPR. therefore be able to contact the person in charge of the
                                                        processing to request the rectification of
In this context, attention should be drawn to data which may no longer be relevant.
of the sponsors of the Section 14 bill, outdated or inaccurate.
paragraph 4, of the GDPR according to which “[t]
hen he intends to carry out treatment In addition, article 6 of the bill provides that the
subsequent personal data parent who gave birth to the child may transmit
for a purpose other than that for which information about the other parent of
personal data were born, and vice versa. GDPR Article 14
obtained, the data controller provides would therefore be intended to apply in
to the person concerned in advance, insofar as this provision specifies the
information about this other purpose and information to be provided by the data controller
any other relevant information referred to in the processing when the personal data
paragraph 2”. personnel were not collected from the
                                                        person concerned himself.
Paragraph 5 of this article lists the
assumptions in which the paragraphs In general, and taking into account the purpose
1 to 4 do not apply. If the authors of the bill, the National Commission
bill intend to invoke section 14, asks how the rights of persons
paragraph 5, letter c) of the GDPR to justify, concerned would be articulated with some of the
where applicable, failure to provide the provisions of the draft sub-notice.
information mentioned in paragraphs
1 to 4, it should be emphasized that such an exemption Indeed, in addition to the right to information
can only apply if the national law mentioned, the GDPR confers other rights
"provides appropriate measures aimed at data subjects that the controller
protect the legitimate interests of the person processing is required to respect, in particular-
concerned". the right of access and the right of rectification
                                                        provided for respectively in article 15 and
With regard to data subject to Article 16 of the GDPR. As part of the bill
personnel relating to the third-party donor who, under advice, raises in particular the question of
would be collected pursuant to the article know how the controller
20, paragraph 4 of the draft law, it is intended to implement in practice the requirements




                                                               379
6 APPENDICES




    which derive for him from these rights. Com- secret delivery, no verification
    how does the data controller intend (article 9 of the bill under opinion) is provided?
    communicate to the persons concerned the
    necessary information in the context of the Thus, if the authors of the bill intend
    right to information, in particular if it collects limit the scope of the rights of individuals
    personal data in a manner concerned, or even obligations incumbent
    indirect? How do people contact the data controller, by resorting to
    born can they exercise their rights? Within the possibility provided by Article 23 of the GDPR
    the hypothesis of a secret delivery such a limitation should be provided for by a
    for which no declaration of identity has legislative measures and meet the criteria and
    been received, but for which the establishments requirements listed in said article.
    hospitals communicate data
    "non-identifying", how the manager IX. On the shelf life
    of the processing does he intend to follow up on a
    request for right of access? According to the principle of limitation of the conservation
                                                          enshrined in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter e) of the
    In addition, questions also arise. GDPR, personal data does not
    gations on compliance, by the person responsible for the must not be kept longer
    processing, of the principles relating to the processing as necessary for the achievement of the purposes
    personal data dedicated for which they are collected and processed.
    in Article 5 of the GDPR. Thus, the person responsible for the Beyond the data must be deleted
    processing must, for example, ensure that it is processed or permanently anonymized.
    personal data in a manner
    lawful, fair and transparent to the public. If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the bill
    concerned (principle of legality, fairness to provide in Article 4, paragraph 2 of the draft
    and transparency) and only data law a data retention period, at its
    accurate and, if necessary, kept up to date (primarily for 100 years and that the data would be
    accuracy). Thus, how the respon- destroyed after the lapse of this period, the
    processing does he intend to ensure that he does not National Commission finds himself in the impossibility
    does not process personal data bility to assess whether, in this case, the principle
    of a data subject without the knowledge of this storage limitation is complied with.
    nier? How does the controller
    can he ensure the accuracy of the data, Indeed, neither the commentary of the articles,
    in particular if the data is collected from neither the explanatory memorandum provides
    indirect way? Similarly, how can he explain the criteria used for the
    ensure the accuracy of identity data determination of this retention period
    provided directly if, assuming a data.




                                           380
It should be noted that in accordance with the result of the DPIA could lead to a
Article 11, paragraph 3, point 5 of the draft law, prior dis- consultation of the national authority
request for access to the competent knowledge of origins, in this case the CNPD.
can be introduced by line descendants
direct majority of the child up to the 1st degree, if it Given that it arises from article 35,
is dead. Therefore the storage period paragraph 1 of the GDPR that a DPIA should
100 years would it aim to allow descents to be carried out if the planned treatment is
first-degree direct workers to exercise their power likely to create a high risk for
right of access to origins? the rights and freedoms of natural persons
                                                           taking into account the nature, scope,
It should also be noted that the draft law context and purposes of the processing, the
does not provide for the deletion of data National Commission wonders whether the
once the child has exercised the treatments envisaged by the bill under
his right of access to origins. It assumes that opinions should not have been the subject of a DPIA by
the data is kept to allow, the authors. If necessary, the DPIA would have indicated
where applicable, to direct descendants or that the treatment presents a high risk
first degree to exercise this right in turn. thus leading the authors of the bill,
                                                           possibly already in the development stage
However, in the absence of explanations as to the criteria having the preliminary draft law, to consult the CNPD.
used to determine this period of
retention of data by the authors of the Thus decided in Belvaux on November 29
bill, the CNPD cannot make a decision in 2021.
on the proportionality of the time limit adopted. Such
clarifications should therefore be provided by the National Commission for the Protection of
the authors of the bill. data

  X. The relative impact analysis Tine A. Larsen
     data protection President
                                                           
Article 35, paragraph 10, of the GDPR, read in- Thierry Lallemang
seems with article 36, paragraphs 1 and 4, Commissioner
of the GDPR indicate that under development
of a legislative measure to be adopted Christophe Buschmann
by a national parliament, the authors of this Commissioner
legislative measure may be brought to
carry out an impact analysis on the Marc Lemmer
data processing (hereinafter “the DPIA”), and that the Commissioner




                                                                  381
6
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
                                                                    APPENDICES



data relating to bill no. 7924 amending
of the amended law of 17 July 2020 on measures to combat
against the Covid-19 pandemic. amended law of 17 July 2020 on the measures of
(Deliberation n° 53/AV31/2021 of 8/10/2021) fight against the Covid-19 pandemic352 (hereinafter the
                                                                                                         “Bill No. 7924”).

                                                                                                         According to the explanatory memorandum, due to the
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, very worrying epidemiological situation and
                   letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27 of the evolution of the health context on several
                   2016 relating to the protection of people at the front, bill no. 7924 “proposes
                   physical conditions with regard to the processing of data to make substantial changes
                   of a personal nature and to the free movement of the current version of the amended law of 17
                   this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/July 2020 on measures to combat the
                   CE (general regulation on the protection of the Covid-19 pandemic which comes, in principle,
                   data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), which expires on December 18, 2021. For
                   refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the health and safety of citizens, it
                   organization of the National Commission for is also proposed not to wait for this
                   data protection and the general regime deadline for implementing the new
                   on data protection, the Commission measures. »
                   national authority for data protection (here
                   after referred to as “the National Commission” The CNPD notes in this context that the
                   or “the CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with Articles 5 and 10 of the amended law of July 17, 2020
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, on the measures to combat the pandemic
                   the government and other institutions and Covid-19 (hereinafter: “amended law of July 17
                   organizations regarding the 2020 legislative measures”) concerning in particular the tracing
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of contacts and the processing of data
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons of a personal nature by the Directorate of
                   with regard to the treatment”. health through the establishment of a system
                                                                                                         information, have not been modified.
                    By email dated December 4, 2021,
                   The Minister of Health has invited the Nevertheless, she wishes to speak on two
                   National Commission to decide on the novelties included in the bill under
                   Bill No. 7924 amending the notice involving matters relating to the pro-


                   352
                         Full title: “Bill of law n° 7924 amending: 1° the amended law of July 17, 2020 on measures to combat the pandemic
                         Covid-19; 2° the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products; 3° of the law
                         of January 6, 1995 relating to the wholesale distribution of medicines; 4° the amended law of 24 June 2020 introducing measures
                         temporary relating to the amended municipal law of December 13, 1988 and the amended law of March 27, 2018 on the organization of security
                         civil society in the context of the fight against Covid-19; 5° the amended law of 24 June 2020 introducing a temporary measure relating to
                         the application of article 12 of the amended law of 19 July 2004 concerning municipal planning and urban development within the framework
                         the fight against Covid-19; 6° of the amended law of 24 June 2020 concerning the celebration of marriage in a municipal building other than the
                         town hall as part of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic; 7° of the law of 24 July 2020 temporarily derogating from articles
                         L. 524-1, L. 524-2, L. 524-5, L. 541-1 and L. 541-2 of the Labor Code; 8° of the amended law of 20 June 2020 on 1°temporary derogation from certain
                         labor law provisions in relation to the state of crisis linked to Covid-19; 2° amendment of the Labor Code; 9° of the amended law of 19
                         December 2020 temporarily derogating from Article L. 121-6 of the Labor Code; 10° of the amended law of 19 December 2020 having as its object the
                         introduction of a temporary state contribution to the uncovered costs of certain companies; 11° of the amended law of 19 December 2020 having
                         for the purpose of setting up new recovery aid; 12° of the amended law of 22 January 2021 relating to: 1° modification of Articles L. 234-51,
                         L. 234-52 and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code; 2° temporary derogation from the provisions of Articles L. 234-5, L. 234-52 and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code. »



                                                                                 382
data protection, and more specifically The authors of bill n° 7924 use the
on the obligation for operators of establishments - term "identity document", but does not define it
ments or organizers of gatherings, so it should be assumed
ments, demonstrations or events (here the persons concerned must not
after: “operators and organizers”) under not necessarily show their identity card,
Covid check regime to ask for a document but that any other identity document is
of identity to the person who presents them with a document likely to be used as an identity document,
vaccination or recovery certificate, i.e. passport, driver's license or other.
on the one hand (1.), as well as on the possibility of Or, without defining the term identity document, it is not
keep a list of people vaccinated in not easy to assess the extent of said term and
the framework of the Covid check by the said operators will pose problems in practice for those
or organizers, on the other hand (2.). who are obliged to implement this
                                                                                    legal provision.
Regarding the obligation to present a document
of identity in the context of the Covid check regime In addition, it should be recalled that the GDPR
                                                                                    only intended to apply when a treatment
The new point 27, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the article ment of personal data353
1 of the amended law of July 17, 2020 intends to be carried out. The simple fact that operators
modify the definition of the “Covid check regime” and organizers view the data at
by providing, among other things, that "the operator's personal character appearing on a document
of the establishment or the organizer of the identity does not constitute a processing of
gathering, manifestation or data within the meaning of the GDPR. It would be otherwise
the event under the Covid check regime is held if the operators and organizers are
to request an identity document from the person born to create a file containing all the
who presents him with a vaccination certificate given on the identity documents of the
or recovery to ensure that persons controlled or containing copies
the identity mentioned on the certificate presented identity documents. Indeed, in the current state
and that appearing on the identity document are the law, and unless a legal text provides for it ex-
identical. ” pressed the possibility, it would then be a question of a
                                                                                    disproportionate processing of data, which
The CNPD understands from the wording of the cited article that it does not respect the principle of minimization
that operators and organizers have data, insofar as means
not only the faculty, but on the other hand a less intrusive
obligation to systematically ask the parties concerned could be put in
an identity document to the person who pre-works it in order to achieve the intended purpose, that is-
feel a certificate of vaccination or recovered- i.e. make sure by a visual check of
carefully to avoid any risk of abuse. said document than the identity mentioned on the




353
      See the definition of data processing provided for in Article 4.2 of the GDPR, as well as its material scope provided for in Article 2.1 of the GDPR.



                                                                                              383
6 APPENDICES




    certificate presented corresponds well to that The CNPD thus offers to the said authors
    listed on the ID. to adapt the terminology accordingly.

    As for the possibility of keeping a list of • The CNPD notes that, as it currently stands, the draft
    vaccinated persons of law n ° 7924 under opinion only allows
                                                                              operators and organizers to hold a
    The new point 27, paragraph 4 of article 1 of the file (“list”) of vaccinated persons and,
    amended law of July 17, 2020 also provides a contrario, does not provide for this possibility
    only to “facilitate the checks carried out for the employer who has decided to place
    as part of the Covid check, any operator or its company or administration under the
    organizer may keep a list of people with the Covid check regime in accordance with article
    vaccinated when they have regular access - 3septies of the amended law of July 17, 2020.
    ment to a given establishment or participate Or, considering that the legal provision
    regularly to activities or events providing that from January 15, 2022,
    subject to the Covid check regime. » It is specified that the 3G system will be compulsory at the place of
    also that the inscription on this list must be your work is being finalized and that the
    law, that it can only contain the name of the legislator aims to provide that the employer
    vaccinated persons who can request to be able to draw up and keep a list containing, on
    have their names removed from said list at any time on a voluntary basis, the names of persons
    without any explanation or justification and that vaccinated and recovered,354 the CNPD will analyze
    said list must be destroyed at the latest as already explained in this section.
    ration of the duration of this law.
                                                                            • The bill currently provides that the
    Before analyzing the aforementioned article, the CNPD would like to show operators and organizers can only-
    make three comments: How do you keep a file (“list”) of people
                                                                              vaccinated. However, the CNPD wonders in this
    • Given that the term “list” is not context why the authors of the draft
      provided for in the GDPR, the National Commission Law No. 7924 did not consider including
      assumes that the authors of the bill also recoveries.
      No. 7924 relate to the maintenance of a file defined
      in article 4. point 6) of the GDPR, whether As regards the legal basis
      in paper or computerized form, such as
      “any structured set of data to It should be further clarified that the collection
      personal nature accessible according to information relating to the vaccination status of a
      determined criteria, that this data subject set (i.e. the information
      whether centralized, decentralized or distributed depending on whether or not the person is vaccinated)
      functionally or geographically. constitutes treatment of particular categories



      354
            See on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, article “FIRST EXCHANGE ON THE COVID LAW” of December 6, 2021:
            https://chd.lu/wps/portal/public/Accueil/Actualite/ALaUne/?current=true&urile=wcm%3Apath%3Aactualite.public.chd.lu/ST-www.chd.lu/sa-
            news/11cbf556-a029-48ae-a2ed-9e892699c377.



                                                        384
ties of personal data, called ontary, the names of the vaccinated persons and
“sensitive data”, in particular restored data”355, the CNPD would like to draw the attention
of health, which is prohibited under the paragraph of the sponsors of the bill under consideration on
(1) of Article 9 of the GDPR, unless one of the conditions is that the consent is in principle not
provisions referred to in paragraph (2) of the said article not provide an adequate basis of lawfulness for
is filled. In addition to compliance with the pre-processing article implemented by an employer
mentioned, the processing of sensitive data must concerning its employees given the
be based on one of the lawfulness criteria provided for in a relationship of dependence which, except in cases
GDPR Article 6. ceptional, taints the free character of the said
                                                                         consent. It is up to the employer to
The CNPD understands from the wording of the new point to demonstrate that the processing is valid in
27 of article 1 of the amended law of July 17 this exceptional case, in particular by proving
2020 that “vaccinated people when people have a real
they have regular access to an established freedom of choice, i.e. they have the
ment given or participate regularly possibility of refusing without suffering any prejudice
to activities or events subject to (recital 42 of the GDPR). In practice, the em-
Covid check regime” can consent to the employer must therefore always allow
expressly to appear on a list of per- employees who do not wish to use this
vaccinated, that is to say that the condition possibility of appearing in a file (“list”),
provided for in Article 9.2.a) of the GDPR would apply to present their certificate each time they
in this case and that this treatment would be based on returning to areas under diet
in addition to article 6.1.a) of the GDPR. She recommends Covid check, without them undergoing any
thus asks the authors of bill n° 7924 negative consequence of this choice.
to refer to these provisions of the GDPR in
the body of the text of the bill. As for the purpose pursued

The CNPD would like to point out that in this case, Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR requires that the data to be
thesis, it is important that this personal consent be collected for purposes
either "free, specific, informed and unequivocal" determined, explicit and legitimate purposes,
(Article 4 point 11 of the GDPR) and that the conditions and are not further processed by a
provisions applicable to consent provided for in a manner incompatible with these purposes.
GDPR Article 7 are complied with.
                                                                         From the reading of paragraph 4 of new point 27
Furthermore, as shown by the work of the amended law of July 17, 2020, the CNPD
the House Health Committee concludes that the purpose intended by the authors of the
Deputies that the employer will be able to “establish and bill under notice by keeping a file
maintain a list showing, on a vo- basis (“list”) of persons vaccinated by the



355
      See on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, article “FIRST EXCHANGE ON THE COVID LAW” of December 6, 2021:
      https://chd.lu/wps/portal/public/Accueil/Actualite/ALaUne/?current=true&urile=wcm%3Apath%3Aactualite.public.chd.lu/ST-www.chd.lu/sa-
      news/11cbf556-a029-48ae-a2ed-9e892699c377



                                                                                  385
6 APPENDICES




    operators and organizers is to “facilitate events or during events of a certain
    the verifications carried out within the framework scope, the persons responsible for the
    of the Covid-check. » It also emerges from the verifications necessary within the framework of the
    first exchanges of the Covid check Commission do not necessarily know
    Health of the Chamber of Deputies on the project all the people who come to the in-
    of Law No. 7924 as the file (“list”) held by the entry of a Covid check zone. She wonders
    the employer taking over, on a voluntary basis, even if the exhibitors and organizers
    the names of those vaccinated and recovered would then be obliged to request a document
    will allow the latter “not to owe, to identity to the person concerned in order to
    each time they access the workplace, ensure that it is in the file
    submit to exhaustive checks (“list”) of vaccinated persons or, where
    generally imposed within the framework of any reinstated?
    Covid-Check. »356
                                                                            Moreover, it considers that in order to facilitate the
    Nevertheless, the CNPD has doubts about the effectiveness of the need for frequent entry / exit during
    the maintenance of such a file (“list”), whether for a short period of time (for example a
    either at work or during daytime activities) of a Covid check area, such as by
    leisure (Horeca sector, sports activities, example during sports or cultural activities
    cultural activities, etc) in relation to the purpose which are punctual, there are means
    actually pursued. She finds it hard to imagine being less intrusive, without data collection at
    only the people who appear on such a personal file, to meet a need
    (“list”) are no longer checked when they facilitate entry/exit from an area
    fall within the scope of a Covid check Covid check, such as the use of
    only because they appear on a file color wristbands or other means of this
    (" list "). Indeed, the gender responsible person.
    to scan the QR codes in the frame
    of the 2G or 3G regime should at least With regard to the Covid check system
    verify that the person reporting to the workplace, the CNPD considers that for
    the entry is indeed in the file (“list”). employees who have given their consent
                                                                            explicit to appear in the file (“list”) of
     The CNPD wonders in this context whether in people vaccinated and recovered, some
    practice it really is faster to have employers could consider integrating the
    search for the names of people within a validity period of the certificate in the badge
    file (“list”), than to quickly scan the access of the employees concerned, which would be
    QR code using the CovidCheck app. valid during this period or until the end of
    read and verify that the quadrant turns green. the duration of application of the provisions relating
    Especially in large companies, admitted to the Covid check in the amended law of 17



      356
            See on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, article “FIRST EXCHANGE ON THE COVID LAW” of December 6, 2021:
            https://chd.lu/wps/portal/public/Accueil/Actualite/ALaUne/?current=true&urile=wcm%3Apath%3Aactualite.public.chd.lu/ST-www.chd.lu/sa-
            news/11cbf556-a029-48ae-a2ed-9e892699c377.



                                                        386
July 2020. If this means would facilitate the Moreover, the CNPD notes that the duration of
checks carried out as part of the validity of the vaccination certificate, or even the
Covid check, access would be facilitated to recovery certificates are not among
employees in question without the need to control the data to be included in the files (“lists
additional.357”) at issue. However, the CNPD wonders how
                                                                              purposes for health reasons
However, the fact of integrating this information in could be affected, if the certificate of
the employee access badge assumes vaccination or recovery from
however, additional data processing would lose its validity between the date
ment, which should respect the set of entry into force and the expiry date of
GDPR principles and obligations. As the law of July 17, 2020 as amended by the
for example, as this treatment has as this bill, i.e. February 28
condition of lawfulness express consent 2022.
data subjects (article 9.2.a)
GDPR), the employer should always allow Therefore, if the person who takes care of the
employees who do not wish to use checks related to the Covid check scheme do not
this opportunity to present their certificate does not have this information and cannot
every time they enter the premises, therefore not checking whether the person who is
placed under the CovidCheck regime, without being found in the file (“list”) still has
do not suffer any negative consequences of a valid certificate, the very purpose of Covid
this choice. check, i.e. to guarantee the security and
                                                                              health of the persons concerned without having to
As for personal data, subject to restrictions and measures
personnel collected strict sanitary conditions, such as wearing a mask
                                                                              or physical distancing, would not
The new point 27, paragraph 4 of article 1 has been reached.
of the amended law of July 17, 2020 provides
that currently the file (“list”) of As to other obligations provided for
operators or organizers may not contain by the GDPR
than "the names of the vaccinated persons".
                                                                              Finally, the employer, operator or organization
Without prejudice to his comments under the niser who maintains a file (“list”) of the per-
point “2.2. As for the purpose pursued, the vaccinated or recovered sons should be considered
CNPD considers that at least the surname and first name as data controller within the meaning
of the vaccinated or recovered person should of Article 4. point 7) of the GDPR and therefore, all
appear in said file (“list”) in order to avoid the principles and obligations provided for by the GDPR
homonym risk. must be respected, such as:




357
      See also the “FAQ ON DATA PROTECTION AND THE COVIDCHECK” available on the CNPD website:
      https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/dossiers-thematiques/covid-19/covid-check.html.



                                                                                       387
6 APPENDICES




    • Only a limited number of people, duly thus decided in Belvaux on December 8
      authorized, will be able to access said 2021 file.
      (" list ").
                                                          The National Commission for the Protection of
    • Security and confidentiality of the data file
      ("list") must be guaranteed. It matters that
      in places accessible to the public, said Tine A. Larsen
      file (“list”) cannot be viewed President
      by other visitors or customers.
                                                          Thierry Lallemang
    • The rights of data subjects, Commissioner
      that is to say in this case the persons
      vaccinated and recovered which appear in a Christophe Buschmann
      such file (“list”), provided for in Articles 12 to Commissioner
      23 of the GDPR are to be observed by the
      controller. Marc Lemmer
                                                          Commissioner




                                           388
Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
                                                                                    data relating to bill no. 7924 on
                                                                                    modification of the amended law of 17 July 2020 on
In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, the measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.
letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27 (Deliberation n° 53/AV31/2021 of 8/12/2021)
2016 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to data processing
of a personal nature and the free movement of
these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ According to the explanatory memorandum, due to the
EC (general regulation on the protection of very worrying epidemiological situations
data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which and the evolution of the health context on
refers to article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on several fronts, bill no. 7924
organization of the National Commission for “proposes to make changes
data protection and general regime substantial to the current version of the law
on data protection, the amended Commission of 17 July 2020 on the measures of
national authority for data protection (here - fight against the coming Covid-19 pandemic,
subsequently referred to as “the National Commission” in principle, expiring on December 18, 2021.
or “the CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the For reasons of health and safety of
law of the Member State, the national parliament, citizens, it is moreover proposed not to
the government and other institutions and wait for this deadline to put in place
agencies about new legislation. »
and administrative procedures relating to the protection of
rights and freedoms of natural persons to The CNPD notes in this context that the
with regard to the treatment”. articles 5 and 10 of the amended law of July 17, 2020
                                                                                    on measures to combat the pandemic
By email dated December 4, 2021, Covid-19 (hereinafter: "amended law of July 17
Madam the Minister of Health invited the 2020”) concerning in particular the tracing
National Commission to rule on contacts and data processing
bill n° 7924 amending the personal nature by the Directorate of
amended law of July 17, 2020 on health measures through the establishment of a
fight against the Covid-19 pandemic358 (hereinafter information system, have not been subject to
“Bill No. 7924”). changes.



358
      Full title: “Bill of law n° 7924 amending: 1° the amended law of July 17, 2020 on measures to combat the pandemic
      Covid-19; 2° the amended law of 11 April 1983 regulating the marketing and advertising of medicinal products; 3° of the law
      of January 6, 1995 relating to the wholesale distribution of medicines; 4° the amended law of 24 June 2020 introducing measures
      temporary relating to the amended municipal law of December 13, 1988 and the amended law of March 27, 2018 on the organization of security
      civil society in the context of the fight against Covid-19; 5° of the amended law of 24 June 2020 introducing a temporary measure relating
      the application of article 12 of the amended law of 19 July 2004 concerning municipal planning and urban development within the framework
      the fight against Covid-19; 6° of the amended law of 24 June 2020 concerning the celebration of marriage in a municipal building other than the
      town hall as part of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic; 7° of the law of 24 July 2020 on temporary derogation from the
      articles L. 524-1, L. 524-2, L. 524-5, L. 541-1 and L. 541-2 of the Labor Code; 8° of the amended law of 20 June 2020 on the 1st temporary derogation from
      certain labor law provisions in relation to the state of crisis linked to Covid-19; 2° amendment of the Labor Code; 9° of the law
      amended on December 19, 2020 temporarily derogating from Article L. 121-6 of the Labor Code; 10° of the amended law of 19 December 2020
      the purpose of which is to set up a temporary State contribution to the uncovered costs of certain companies; 11° of the amended law of 19
      December 2020, the purpose of which is to set up new recovery aid; 12° of the amended law of 22 January 2021 relating to: 1° modification of the
      articles L. 234-51, L. 234-52 and L. 234-53 of the Labor Code; 2° temporary derogation from the provisions of Articles L. 234-5, L. 234-52 and L. 234-53
      of the Labor Code. »



                                                                                              389
6 APPENDICES




    Nevertheless, she wishes to express herself on two pieces of identification to the person who presents her with a
    novelties integrated into the bill under certificate of vaccination or recovery
    notice involving questions relating to the pro- in order to avoid any risk of abuse.
    data protection, and more specifically
    on the obligation for operators of establishments- The authors of bill no. 7924 use the
    ments or organizers of gatherings, term “identity document”, but does not define it
    demonstrations or events (hereafter: not, so it must be assumed
    “operators and organizers”) under which the persons concerned must not
    Covid check regime to ask for a document not necessarily show their identity card,
    of identity to the person who presents them with one but that any other identity document is
    vaccination or recovery certificate, which can be used as an identity document,
    on the one hand (1.), as well as on the possibility of knowing passport, driving license or others.
    keep a list of people vaccinated in Or, without defining the term identity document, it is not
    as part of the Covid check by said operators, it is not easy to assess the extent of said term and
    or organizers, on the other hand (2.). will pose problems in practice for those
                                                                                      who are obliged to implement this
    As for the obligation to present a document legal provision.
    ID as part of the Covid check regime
                                                                                      Furthermore, it should be noted that the GDPR
    The new point 27, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the article is only intended to apply when a processing
    1 of the amended law of 17 July 2020 understanding of personal data359 is
    modify the definition of the “Covid check regime” carried out. The simple fact that operators and
    by providing, among other things, that “the operator organizers view the data with
    of the establishment or the organizer of the personal tery appearing on an identity document
    gathering, demonstration or tee does not constitute data processing
    the event under the Covid check regime is within the meaning of the GDPR. It would be different if the
    required to request an identity document from the operators and organizers were brought
    person who presents him with a certificate of to create a file containing all the
    vaccination or recovery in order to data appearing on identity documents
    ensure that the identity mentioned on the of the persons checked or containing
    certificate presented and that appearing on the document copies of identity documents. Indeed, in the state
    identity are identical. » current law, and unless a legal text in pre-
                                                                                      expressly sees the possibility, then it would be
    The CNPD understands from the wording of the quoted article of disproportionate data processing,
    that exhibitors and organizers do not respect the principle of minimization
    not only the faculty, but on the other hand a station of the data, insofar as
    obligation to systematically request a means that is less intrusive to the privacy of




      359
            See the definition of data processing provided for in Article 4.2 of the GDPR, as well as its material scope provided for in Article 2.1 of the GDPR.



                                                               390
data subjects could be made personal accessible according to
implemented in order to achieve the intended purpose, determined criteria, that this set is
that is to say, to ensure by a visual control of centralized, decentralized or distributed in a way
said document as the identity mentioned on the functional or geographical. » The CNPD
certificate presented corresponds well to that proposed to the said authors to adapt the
listed on the ID. terminology in this sense.

As for the possibility of keeping a list • The CNPD notes that in the current state, the pro-
vaccinated persons jet of law n° 7924 under opinion only allows
                                                                           exhibitors and organizers to hold a fi-
The new point 27, paragraph 4 of article 1 of the list (“list”) of vaccinated persons and,
amended law of July 17, 2020 also provides contrario, does not provide for this possibility for
only to “facilitate the checks carried out by the employer who has decided to place his
in the context of the Covid check, any operator or outlet or administration under the Covid regime
organizer may keep a list of check persons in accordance with article 3septies of the
vaccinated when they have regular access - amended law of July 17, 2020. However, considering
ment to a given establishment or participate as long as the legal provision stipulating that at
regularly to activities or events from January 15, 2022, the 3G plan will be
subject to the Covid check regime. » It is specified there mandatory in the workplace is being
also that inclusion on this list must be finalized and that the legislator aims to provide
tax, that it can only contain the name of employees that the employer can draw up and keep a list
vaccinated persons who can ask to include, on a voluntary basis, the names of the
have their names removed from the said list at any time vaccinated and recovered persons,360 the CNPD
without any explanation or justification and that will already analyze this aspect in this opinion.
said list must be destroyed at the latest on the expiry
ration of the duration of this law. • The bill currently provides that the
                                                                           operators and organizers can only-
Before analyzing the aforementioned article, the CNPD would like to keep a file (“list”) of the persons
make three comments: vaccinated. However, the CNPD wonders in this
                                                                           context why the authors of the draft
• Given that the term “list” is not Law No. 7924 did not consider including it
  provided for in the GDPR, the National Commission also recovers persons.
  suppose that the authors of the bill
  No. 7924 relate to the keeping of a defined file As to the legal basis
  in Article 4. point 6) of the GDPR, whether
  in paper or computerized form, such as It should also be specified that the collection
  “any structured set of data or information relating to the vaccination status of a



360
      See on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, article “FIRST EXCHANGE ON THE COVID LAW” of December 6, 2021:
      https://chd.lu/wps/portal/public/Accueil/Actualite/ALaUne/?current=true&urile=wcm%3Apath%3Aactualite.public.chd.lu/ST-www.chd.lu/sa-
      news/11cbf556-a029-48ae-a2ed-9e892699c377.



                                                                                  391
6 APPENDICES




    data subject (i.e. the information Moreover, as emerges from the work of the
    whether or not the person is vaccinated) Committee on Health of the House of
    constitutes a treatment of specific categories that the employer may “establish and maintain
    personal data, say a list containing, on a voluntary basis, the
    “sensitive data”, in particular the names of vaccinated and recovered persons”361,
    health, which is prohibited under para- the CNPD would like to draw the attention of the authors
    graph (1) of Article 9 of the GDPR, unless one of the bills under consideration on the fact that the
    conditions referred to in paragraph (2) of said consent is in principle not a basis
    item is fulfilled. In addition to compliance with adequate lawfulness for processing operations
    the aforementioned article, the processing of data implemented by an employer concerning his
    sensitive must be based on one of the criteria of employees given the dependent relationship
    lawfulness provided for in Article 6 of the GDPR. dance which, except in exceptional cases, taints the
                                                                            free nature of said consent. It comes back to
    The CNPD includes wording of the new employer to demonstrate that the treatment is
    point 27 of article 1 of the amended law of 17 valid in this exceptional case, in particular
    July 2020 that “vaccinated persons by proving that the persons have a
    when they regularly have real freedom of choice, i.e. when they
    to a given establishment or participants have the possibility of refusing without undergoing pre-
    regularly to judice activities or events (recital 42 of the GDPR). In practice,
    subject to the Covid check regime” can the employer must therefore always allow
    expressly consent to appear on an employees who do not wish to use this
    list of vaccinated persons, i.e. possibility of appearing in a file (“list”),
    that the condition provided for in Article 9.2.a) of the to present their certificate each time they
    RGPD would apply in this case and that it falls in areas placed under a regime
    treatment would also be based on article 6.1.a) Covid check, without them undergoing any
    of the GDPR. It thus recommends to authors a negative consequence of this choice.
    of bill no. 7924 to refer to these
    provisions of the GDPR in the body of the text of the As to the purpose pursued
    law Project.
                                                                            Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR requires that the data to be
    The CNPD would like to remind you that in this personal nature are collected for
    hypothesis, it is important that this consent determined, explicit and legitimate purposes,
    ment is “free, specific, informed and and are not further processed in a
    unequivocal” (article 4 point 11 of the GDPR) and in a manner incompatible with these purposes.
    the conditions applicable to the consent
    provided for in Article 7 of the GDPR are complied with From the reading of paragraph 4 of new point 27
    tees. of the amended law of July 17, 2020, the CNPD



      361
            See on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, article “FIRST EXCHANGE ON THE COVID LAW” of December 6, 2021:
            https://chd.lu/wps/portal/public/Accueil/Actualite/ALaUne/?current=true&urile=wcm%3Apath%3Aactualite.public.chd.lu/ST-www.chd.lu/sa-
            news/11cbf556-a029-48ae-a2ed-9e892699c377



                                                        392
concludes that the purpose intended by the authors of the QR code through the CovidCheck application.
bill under notice by holding a read file and verifying that the quadrant becomes
("list") of persons vaccinated by the greens. Especially in large companies,
operators and organizers is to “facilitate the administrations or during events of a
verifications carried out within the framework of the Covid certain scope, the persons responsible
check. » It also emerges from the first of the checks necessary in the context of the
exchanges of the Health Commission of Covid check do not necessarily know
the Chamber of Deputies on the bill all persons who present themselves to
n°7924 than the file (“list”) held by the entrance to a Covid check zone. She wonders
the employer taking over, on a voluntary basis, even if the exhibitors and organizers
the name of those vaccinated and recovered would then be obliged to request a document
will allow the latter “not to owe, to identity to the person concerned in order to
each time they access the workplace, ensure that it is in the file
submit to exhaustive checks (“list”) of vaccinated persons or, where
generally imposed within the framework of any reinstated?
Covid-Check. »362
                                                                         Moreover, it considers that in order to facilitate the
Nevertheless, the CNPD has doubts about the effectiveness of the need for frequent entry / exit during
the maintenance of such a file (“list”), whether for a short period of time (for example a
either at work or during daytime activities) of a Covid check area, such as by
leisure (Horeca sector, sports activities, example during sports or cultural activities
cultural activities, etc) in relation to the purpose which are punctual, there are means
actually pursued. She finds it hard to imagine being less intrusive, without data collection at
only the people who appear on such a personal file, to meet a need
(“list”) are no longer checked when they facilitate entry/exit from an area
fall within the scope of a Covid check Covid check, such as the use of
only because they appear on a file color wristbands or other means of this
(" list "). Indeed, the gender responsible person.
scan QR codes as part of the scheme
2G or 3G should at least verify that the With regard to the Covid check system
person who presents himself at the entrance appears in the workplace, the CNPD considers that for
in the file ("list"). employees who have given their consent
                                                                         explicit to appear in the file (“list”) of
The CNPD wonders in this context whether in people vaccinated and recovered, some
practice it really is faster to have employers could consider integrating the
search for the names of people within a validity period of the certificate in the badge
file (“list”), than to quickly scan the access of the employees concerned, which would be



362
      See on the website of the Chamber of Deputies, article “FIRST EXCHANGE ON THE COVID LAW” of December 6, 2021:
      https://chd.lu/wps/portal/public/Accueil/Actualite/ALaUne/?current=true&urile=wcm%3Apath%3Aactualite.public.chd.lu/ST-www.chd.lu/sa-
      news/11cbf556-a029-48ae-a2ed-9e892699c377.



                                                                                  393
6 APPENDICES




    valid during this period or until the end of appearing in the said file (“list”) in order to avoid the
    the duration of application of the provisions relating to risk linked to homonyms.
    at Covid check in the amended law of July 17
    2020. If this means would facilitate checks Furthermore, the CNPD notes that the period of validity
    carried out as part of the Covid check, access to the vaccination certificate, or even the certificate
    would be facilitated to the employees in question without reinstatement is not among the
    need for additional control.363 data to be included in the files (“lists”)
                                                                                in question. However, the CNPD wonders how the
    However, the fact of integrating this information in purposes for health reasons could
    the employee access badge assumes they have been reached, if the vaccination certificate or
    however, further data processing of a person loses its
    ment, which should respect all the validity between the date of entry into force and the
    GDPR principles and obligations. As the expiry date of the law of July 17, 2020 as
    example, as this processing has as amended by this Bill, that is,
    condition of lawfulness express consent say February 28, 2022.
    data subjects (article 9.2.a)
    GDPR), the employer should always allow Therefore, if the person who takes care of the
    employees who do not wish to use checks related to the Covid check scheme do not
    this opportunity to present their certificate does not have this information and cannot
    every time they enter the premises, therefore not checking whether the person who is
    placed under the CovidCheck regime, without being found in the file (“list”) still has
    suffer no negative consequences from a valid certificate, the very purpose of Covid
    of this choice. check, i.e. to guarantee the security and
                                                                                health of the persons concerned without having to
    As for personal data, subject to restrictions and measures
    personnel collected strict sanitary conditions, such as wearing a mask
                                                                                or physical distancing, would not
    The new point 27, paragraph 4 of article 1 has been reached.
    of the amended law of July 17, 2020 provides
    that currently the file (“list”) of As for other obligations
    operators or organizers may not contain provisions of the GDPR
    than "the names of the vaccinated persons".
                                                                                Finally, the employer, operator or organization
    Without prejudice to its comments under the sponsor who maintains a file ("list") of
    point “2.2. As for the purpose pursued, the persons vaccinated or recovered are to
    CNPD considers that at least the surname and first name of the person responsible for the processing
    of the vaccinated or recovered person should have the meaning of article 4. point 7) of the GDPR and therefore,




      363
            See also the “FAQ ON DATA PROTECTION AND THE COVIDCHECK” available on the CNPD website:
            https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/dossiers-thematiques/covid-19/covid-check.html.



                                                           394
all the principles and obligations provided for by the Thus decided in Belvaux on December 8
GDPR must be respected, for example: 2021.

• Only a limited number of people, duly The National Commission for the Protection of
  authorized, will be able to access said data file
  (" list ").
                                                     Tine A. Larsen
• Security and confidentiality of the President file
  (“list”) must be guaranteed. It matters that
  in places accessible to the public, said Thierry Lallemang
  file (“list”) cannot be viewed Commissioner
  by other visitors or customers.
                                                     Christopher Buschman
• The rights of data subjects, i.e. Commissioner
  i.e. in this case people vaccinated
  and restored that appear in such a file Marc Lemmer
  (“list”), provided for in sections 12 to 23 of the Commissioner
  GDPR are to be respected by the person responsible for the
  treatment.




                                                           395
6 APPENDICES


Opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7805 creating
a parking card for disabled people
and relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation 1° fixing the public values invited the National Commission
model and content of the parking card to decide on project no. 7805 on
people with disabilities as well as the application and the certificate for the creation of a parking card for
doctor in order to obtain this card; 2° modifying the handicapped persons (hereinafter the “draft
amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 26 August 1993 relating to laws”) as well as on the draft regulation
taxed warnings, consignments for grand-ducal offenders 1° fixing the model and content
non-residents as well as the implementing measures for the parking permit for people
vehicle and disability impoundment legislation as well as demand and certain-
                                                                           medical certificate with a view to obtaining this
in terms of license points.
                                                                           map ; 2° amending the Grand-Ducal regulation
(Deliberation n° 55/AV33/2021 of December 10, 2021)
                                                                           amended on August 26, 1993 relating to warnings
                                                                           taxed ments, consignments for counter-
                                                                           non-resident entrants as well as measures
                   In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, implementing the legislation on the
                   letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of 27 April on vehicle impounds and in matters of
                   2016 relating to the protection of persons with penalty points (hereinafter the “draft
                   with regard to the processing of data Grand-Ducal Regulation”).
                   of a personal nature and the free movement of
                   these data, and repealing Directive 95/46/ It appears from the explanatory memorandum that “[a]
                   CE (general regulation on the protection of parking cards for
                   data) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which persons with disabilities are regulated
                   refers to article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the provisions of the Grand-Ducal regulation
                   organization of the National Commission for January 31, 2003 concerning the creation
                   data protection and the general regime and the use of a parking card
                   on Data Protection, the Commission for People with Disabilities” and that in 2019
                   National Data Protection Authority (here “it was planned to replace the said regulation
                   designated the Grand-Ducal “National Commission” in 2003 by a new
                   or the “CNPD”) “advises, in accordance with the Grand-Ducal regulation in order to modernize the
                   law of the Member State, the national parliament, text and in particular to introduce a new
                   the government and other institutions and model of the parking card more
                   organizations about legislative measures that are difficult to falsify". However, "in his opinion
                   and administrative procedures relating to the protection of of October 22, 2019 the Council of State raised
                   rights and freedoms of natural persons to that since the constitutional revision
                   with regard to the treatment”. in 2007 the principles relating to
                                                                           the social integration of citizens with
                   By letters dated March 24, 2021, disability is a matter reserved for the law
                   Minister of Mobility and Tra- and that therefore the regulatory power does not




                                                            396
does not have the spontaneous power of cards as well as information concerning
regulate this matter. the administrative procedures concerning
                                                                                these cards are taken from a bank
The authors of the bill specify that national data relating to the cards of
“this bill and its parking regulations for disabled persons”.
of execution are used to replace According to paragraphs 4 and 5 of the said article, the
the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 31 January Minister having Transport in its
2003”. (hereinafter the “Minister”) is responsible for
                                                                                controller, within the meaning of Article 4,
Therefore, the bill “aims to bring point 7) of the GDPR, and the Center des technologies
creation of a parking card to lose state information (hereinafter the “CTIE”) has
persons with disabilities and to set the conditions for the quality of subcontractor within the meaning of Article 4,
with a view to obtaining and using this point 8) of the GDPR.
map” and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
intends in particular to set “the model and the With regard to the terminology used
content of the parking card for per- by the authors of the bill, i.e.
persons with disabilities and the medical certificate in the terms "data bank", the CNPD
for obtaining this card. considers that it would be more appropriate to align it
                                                                                to the terminology used by the GDPR which
This notice will limit its observations to the use of the terms "file" or
questions relating to the protection of data - "processing" of data.
born of a personal nature, raised by the
articles 2 and 7 of the bill and articles 1 and 2 1. Preliminary remarks
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
                                                                                First of all, the National Commission welcomes
      I. On the database referred to that, from the point of view of legal certainty,
            Article 7 of the bill be provided for, in paragraph 1, of Article 7 of the bill
                                                                                law, the principle of the creation of a “bank
Article 7, paragraph 1 of the draft law provides that national data relating to credit cards
“[t]he information relating to parking cards for disabled persons”,
parking issued provided for in Articles in accordance with Article 6, paragraph (3) of the
1 and 6, the information contained in these GDPR364.


364
      Article 6, paragraph (3), of the GDPR provides that “The basis of the processing referred to in paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:
      To. Union law; Or
      b. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject. The purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis
      or, with regard to the processing referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1, are necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or falling within the scope of
      the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. This legal basis may contain specific provisions
      to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the
      controller; the types of data that are subject to processing; the people concerned; the entities to which the
      personal data may be communicated and the purposes for which they may be communicated; purpose limitation;
      retention periods; and processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure lawful processing
      and fair, such as those provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX. ". (…) e) processing
      is necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller
      processing; (…)”.




                                                                                          397
6 APPENDICES




    This article provides for a particular coercion justice”) and of the European Court of Human Rights
    linked to the lawfulness of a processing of human data. ".
    necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
    or the performance of a mission of public interest By virtue of the aforementioned provisions, these bases
    or subject to the exercise of official legal authority should establish provisions
    with which the controller is responsible. to determine, among other things,
    In these two cases, the basis and the types of data processed, the persons
    the purposes of the data processing must be concerned, the entities to which the data
    specifically be defined either by the right to may be communicated and for what
    the European Union, or by the law of the State purposes, the retention periods of the
    member to which the data controller or the operations and procedures
    is submitted. treatment.

    In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies Thus, although the authors are to be congratulated
    that it should “[…] belong to the law of the Union of the bill to have specified the categories
    or the right of a Member State to determine which data would be processed, as well as
    the purpose of the processing. Furthermore, this right the purposes for which these would be
    could specify the general conditions processed, or the retention period
    of this regulation governing the legality of the data processed, certain elements are not
    processing of personal data, not (or not sufficiently) specified in the
    establish specifications to determine bill.
    the data controller, the type of
    personal data subject The CNPD will return to this in more detail in the
    of the processing, the persons concerned, the developments below.
    entities to which the personal data
    2. On the treatment of particular categories may be communicated,
    purpose limitations, specific data retention period
    and other measures to ensure a
    lawful and fair processing. […]”. Under clause 7 of the bill, the Minister
                                                                                  will collect "the decision of the physician-member
    Recital (41) of the GDPR states the medical commission”. The Commission
    although "this legal basis or this national includes in the opinion of the Council
    legislative measure should be clear and state365 that the “medical commission”
    precise and its application should be predictable covered by the bill is that provided for in
    for litigants, in accordance with article 90 of the amended Grand-Ducal decree
    case law of the Court of Justice of the Union of 23 November 1955 regulating the
    European (hereinafter referred to as "Court of traffic on all public roads.




      365
            Opinion n°60593 of July 16, 2021 of the Council of State on the draft law creating a parking card for disabled people,
            parliamentary document n°7805/02.



                                                            398
It also emerges from article 2 of the working draft, from the assessment of the capacity of
Grand-Ducal regulation that the Minister will collect the worker's work, medical diagnoses,
also the medical certificate, as referred to in health or social care, or
Appendix 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. management of systems and services
                                                                                    healthcare or social protection on
To the extent that the data contained in the basis of Union law, the law of a
these documents are likely to be rela- Member State or under a contract
tives to the health of the applicant for a card concluded with a health professional and
parking for disabled people, subject to the conditions and guarantees referred to in
these are to be qualified as special categories (paragraph 3).
data links, known as “sensitive data”
within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR. Thus, the authors of the bill should
                                                                                    pay particular attention to the “measures
However, such processing requires appropriate and specific protection.
specific protection366 and are subject to requirements of human rights and freedoms
stricter rules. The processing of “born data” which should be implemented by the
sensitive” is, in fact, prohibited unless one of the data controllers in the context of the
conditions referred to in paragraph (2) of Article 9 processing of “sensitive data”, such as
GDPR is fulfilled. referred to in Article 7 of the Bill and Article 2 of the
                                                                                    draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
In this case, the National Commission
considers that the data processing referred to 3. On the categories of data to be
in sections 2 and 7 of the bill, could be of a personal nature
based on Article 9, paragraph (2), letter g),
of the GDPR which provides that "the processing is If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the project
necessary for reasons of public interest of law to have listed in article 7, paragraph 3 of the
important, on the basis of the Union law draft law, the categories of data which
or the law of a Member State which must be would be collected by the Minister, the text under
proportionate to the objective pursued, respect notice omits to specify certain categories
the essence of the right to data protection of data or remains unclear as to what
and provide for appropriate measures and concerns the listing of certain categories
specific for safeguarding data rights.
fundamentals and interests of the person
concerned" or on Article 9, paragraph Furthermore, it is suggested to delete the
(2), letter h), of the GDPR which provides that "the following wording "all data
processing is necessary for the purposes of the necessary for the following purposes”
preventive medicine or medicine of the employee in paragraph 2, of article 7, of the draft




366
      See the cases rendered by the CJEU of April 8, 1992, C-62/90, point 23 and of October 5, 1994, C-404/92, point 17.



                                                                                               399
6 APPENDICES




    of law, while the provisions of paragraph 3 do not cover the processing of personal data
    of the same article, exhaustively lists the personal matters which concern persons
    categories of data that would be collected. morals, and in particular companies do-
                                                         ties of legal personality, including the
    In any case, such formulation name, legal form and contact details of the
    is too vague and would not be likely a legal person”.
    respect the principle of minimization
    data under which the data to However, information relating to
    personal character must be adequate, legal persons may, where appropriate,
    relevant and limited to what is necessary concern natural persons (for example
    with regard to the purposes for which they are used, for example: if they include the name of the manager of
    processed. society) and must therefore be considered
                                                         as personal data.
    The CNPD thus proposes to reformulate the paragraph
    2, of article 7 of the bill, in the way Thus, the RGPD will only apply to the data to
    following: “The categories of personal data that would be communicated
    personal character, referred to in paragraph 3, in this capacity to the Minister.
    are collected and processed for the purposes
    following: (…)”. Furthermore, there is reason to question this
                                                         what is covered by the term “matricule” referred to in
          A. On the data relating to the aforementioned provisions. Is this the number
             establishments to which the registration card of the establishment in the Registry
             parking is issued from Commerce and Societies?

    Article 7, paragraph 3 of the bill provides that For greater clarity and better understanding
    “[i]n this database are Zion, the authors of the bill should ensure
    the following data: (…) the name, the registration number, to use the appropriate terminology.
    the vehicle identification number and
    the contact address of the establishment to which B. On the categories of data
    the parking card is issued”. collected through forms
                                                                   referred to in Appendix 2 of the draft
    It emerges from the said provisions that Grand-Ducal regulation data
    concerning legal persons would be
    likely to be collected by the Minister. It should be noted that Article 7, paragraph 3, point
                                                         1° of the bill does not fully reflect
    As such, it should be noted that considering the categories of data that would be collected
    rant 14 of the GDPR provides that the GDPR “(…) shall only be notified by the Minister through the




                                           400
“[a]request for obtaining a parking card application card? If such
parking for disabled people was not to be the case, the Commission na-
reduced mobility”367, and the form “national certificate asks what data would be
medical” 368. referred to by the "description" of the holder of
                                                          the card, referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3, point 1° of
However, paragraph 1, of article 7 of the draft bill.
specifies that the "information concerning
the administrative procedures concerning In all cases, and for better understanding
these maps are included in a bank for understanding the text under notice, it is proposed to
national data”. replace the term “signage” with a list
                                                          exact data that the data controller
Thus, this means that the identification number is brought to process.
national cation which appears on the form “[d]
request to obtain a residence card. Furthermore, it should be noted that the
service for people with disabilities with data relating to the date and place of birth
reduced mobility” and the data contained therein do not appear as categories of data
in the "medical certificate" would not be included in the file. Gold,
included in the file? these are collected during the request for
                                                          the parking card submitted to the Minister.
The same applies to the photocopy of the license If such data were to appear in the said
of driving, this part is to be attached by the file then this should be reflected in the
applicant, if the latter has one, to the device under review.
“medical certificate” form but Article 7,
paragraph 3 of the bill only refers to the Finally, in the absence of details in the
driver's license number. comment articles on the reasons
                                                          which would justify the collection of the number
If such data are indeed national identification (“matricule”) and the
included in the aforementioned file, the text photocopy of the driving licence, the CNPD
under notice should expressly reflect this. is unable to assess whether the principle
                                                          data minimization, under
In addition, the CNPD wonders whether the data of which only the data necessary for the
relating to the "description" of the holder of the achievement of the purposes must be processed,
card, referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3, point 1° of the would be respected. The same goes for the picture
bill, include the surname, first name, of the applicant for the card. Although the article
telephone number and e-mail of the person 7, paragraph 3, point 2° of the bill under notice
applicant, which the latter must submit as well as the “[a]request for
fuck with the Minister when she submits to him a request for a parking card to




367
      See appendix 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.
368
      See appendix 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                                 401
6 APPENDICES




    disabled persons with reduced mobility”369 must possibly submit the applicant
    provides for this collection, it should be noted that under Article 2, paragraph 3 of the draft under
    the need for the processing of this data in opinion, or even both?
    personal character is not justified by the
    authors of the bill. The specimen of the card In accordance with the principle of minimization
    of parking for natural persons of the data provided for in Article 5, paragraph
    annexed to the draft Grand-Ducal Regulation 1, letter c), of the GDPR, the CNPD considers, in all
    contains a location to affix the state of the case, that only a "negative" opinion or
    photo provided and the authors specify that they "positive" on the part of the doctor-member of
    have used the specimen made available by the medical committee, with regard to
    the European Union. If therefore, the provision of the issuance of the parking card,
    the photo is based on a resulting constraint should be communicated to the Minister. Of the
    of European Union law, the authors of the therefore, this opinion should not contain
    bill should make that clear. Health card applicant's health data
                                                                    parking.
    Furthermore, it should be noted that the use
    of the national identification number is, in 4. On access to personal data
    principle, governed by the amended law of June 19 personal
    2013 relating to the identification of persons
    physical. According to article 5 paragraph (1), letter
                                                                    f) GDPR personal data
               C. On the collection of the "decision of the must be "processed in such a way as to guarantee a
                  doctor-member of the appropriate personal data security commission
                  medical” personnel, including protection against
                                                                    unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
    According to point 5°, paragraph 3, article 7 of the original loss, destruction or damage
    bill, the file will also contain the accidental, using technical measures
    “decision of the physician-member of the appropriate com- or organizational (integrity and
    medical mission”. privacy) ".

    In the absence of details in the comment In addition, article 32 of the GDPR provides that “the
    of the articles, the National Commission disclaims the controller and the processor
    asks what would be the data that would implement the technical measures
    actually contained in this decision. and organizational structures in order to
    Is this a copy of the entire notice to ensure a level of security appropriate to the
    seen in article 2, paragraph 1 of the bill, or risk”. Such measures should be put
    copy of the result of the medical examination, which is implemented in order to avoid in particular access




    369
          See appendix 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.



                                                              402
unauthorized data or leaks from The National Commission also points out
data. the importance of proactively carrying out
                                                    internal checks. For this purpose, it is appropriate
Among these security measures, the Commission in accordance with Article 32, paragraph (1),
national considers it important that only letter d) of the GDPR to implement a
people who need it in the exercise procedure “aimed at testing, analyzing and
their functions and tasks regularly assess the effectiveness of the measures
professionals are authorized to have technical and organizational access to ensure the
to the necessary data. In this context, security of processing”.
it is strongly recommended to define a
access management policy, in order to be able to Thus, if there is reason to congratulate the authors of the
identify from the beginning the persons or the bill to have provided for in article 7, paragraph 6
competent department who would have access to the bill that “[l]access to data
data or to the computer interface provided and the possibility of processing them are managed by
made available by the CTIE, and to which data an identity and data management system
specific persons or service would have access rights”, it is important that the
access. This is all the more so insofar as data controllers ensure that
"sensitive data" are meant to be this system for managing identities and
processed. access rights respect the considerations
                                                    formulated above, in the absence of more
The Minister will therefore have to put in place such clarifications as to the terms of this
measures to ensure confidentiality and the system.
security of such data, including
a logging system (i.e. a 5. On the retention period of the
recording personal data in “log files”
or “logs”) of user activities,
anomalies and security-related events. Pursuant to Article 5, paragraph (1), letter e)
Indeed, the disclosure of GDPR sensitive data, personal data
could cause serious damage to the should not be stored any longer
users. as necessary for the achievement of
                                                    purposes for which they are collected
On this last point, the CNPD recommends that and treated (principle of limiting the
logging data is retained).
for a period of five years from their
registration, time after which they are If there is reason to congratulate the authors of the bill
erased, except when they are subject to having provided retention periods for
control procedure. the data processed within the framework of the project




                                                           403
6 APPENDICES




    of the law and of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, With regard to the other durations of
    details would nevertheless deserve to be preserved and although these are
    brought. fixed by the said provisions, the authors
                                                           of the bill in their commentary on
    Thus, article 7, paragraph 7 of the text under article opinion does not explain the criteria used.
    as amended by amendments which would justify such durations. These latter
    of October 26, 2021 is intended to be limited, in fact, to indicating that the duration of 3
    provide for a retention period of three months, month was set “in analogy to other banks
    from the issue of the data station card” and that the retention period
    ment, for the photograph and the signature of 10 years “corresponds to the period of validity of
    holder and a period of ten years for the "other two parking cards".
    data ".
                                                           However, these explanations are not sufficient to justify
    Article 7, paragraph 8 of the bill as amended why the retention of said data
    by the parliamentary amendments of the 26th for such durations would be necessary and
    October 2021 still provides for a derogation from the justified.
    10 year retention period for data
    holders of parking cards Thus, the National Commission wonders
    permanent for which the data why the authors of the bill intend
    “may be stored beyond a period set a storage period of 10 years which
    ten years”. corresponds to "the period of validity of two
                                                           parking cards", whereas a card
    With regard to the parking exemption provided for is valid for 5 years and
    the aforementioned paragraph 8, the authors of the bill that at the end of these 5 years, it must be
    specify that “[a]n order to avoid renewed people?
    with permanent duty disabilities
    attach a recent certificate attesting to the There is still reason to wonder about the articulation
    disability at the time of the renewal of their lation of the provisions of the bill which
    card, this information should be kept. provide for a retention period of 10
    For example, a person who has lost years for "other data" except
    a leg should otherwise attach the photograph and signature of the holder
    a medical certificate attesting to the loss of a parking card, with those of
    leg every 10 years. Insofar as Article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
    where only the data contained in the which states that “[t]he medical certificate has
    medical certificate seem to be referred to, the period of validity of three months from
    text under opinion should expressly the of the date of issue by the medical examiner
    reflect. nator”.




                                            404
Is it necessary and justified to retain for reasonable measures "so that the data
a duration of 10 years, a medical certificate which of a personal nature which is inaccurate, had
will only be valid for a period of three days with regard to the purposes for which they are
months from the date of issue by the processed, be erased or rectified without
medical examiner? delay”.

Consequently, in the absence of details, II. On the QR code on the card
authors of the bill in the parking commentary for people
of the aforementioned articles as to the criteria which physical
would justify such durations, the Commission
national authority is not in a position to assess According to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the
if in this case, the principle of duration of the new parking card model is
limited retention of data was "more difficult to tamper with". The explanatory memorandum
respected, and invites the authors of the bill to draft a precise Grand-Ducal regulation at its
provide details in this regard. turn that “it took the opportunity to adapt
                                                     parking card templates
In addition, it should be noted that the provision in order to protect them against falsification or
tion on retention periods applies to counterfeiting” and that “using a reader
only to the data contained in the file. QR code, this code allows a device
Indeed, the CNPD understands that electronic de- information on the nature of the
orders as well as medical certificates and documents”.
where applicable, photocopies of driver's licenses
drive are received in paper version and then The QR code will therefore be used to check the veracity
transcribed into the file. Thus, it is worth parking cards.
ask yourself what retention periods
are planned for the data provided on The National Commission regrets that the
paper, in particular concerning the categories of such control, in practice,
specific types of data, known as "data, are not specified by the authors of the project
sensitive” within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR, the law and the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
national identification number as well as the photo and therefore wonders how such a control
to of the applicant. will take place in practice.

Finally, it should be recalled that the person responsible Indeed, it is necessary to ask who will carry out
of the processing must under Article 5, these checks. Will the role of agents be
paragraph (1), letter d) of the GDPR ensure municipal authorities or the Grand Ducal Police?
that the data it processes is accurate If there is any doubt about the competence of
and kept up to date and take all the Grand Ducal Police to carry out such




                                                            405
6 APPENDICES




    checks, it is different for agents Thus decided in Belvaux on 10 December
    municipal. 2021.

    In addition, the person who will control the nature The National Commission for the Protection of
    of the document using an electronic device data
    will it directly remotely access the
    file provided for in article 7 of the bill? Tine A. Larsen
                                                        President
    In any case, the CNPD considers that these
    people should only have access to Thierry Lallemang
    information relating to the validity of the Commissaire card
    parking, i.e. if the card is
    valid or not, excluding Christophe Buschmann
    other personal data listed in Commissioner
    said file. Under no circumstances do these
    should have access to all Marc Lemmer data
    contained in the file. Commissioner




                                          406
15, Boulevard du Jazz - L-4370 Belvaux
Telephone: +352 26 10 60-1 - info@cnpd.lu
                              www.cnpd.lu
