 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential 

Guarantees for surveillance measures  

Adopted on 10 November 2020 

 
 
 

 

2 2 2 

 

  
Table of contents 
1. INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................................................................... 4 

2. INTERFERENCES WITH FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS ...................................................................................... 6 

3. THE EUROPEAN ESSENTIAL GUARANTEES ............................................................................................... 8 

Guarantee A - Processing should be based on clear, precise and accessible rules .................................................. 8 

Guarantee B - Necessity and proportionality with regard to the legitimate objectives pursued need to be 
demonstrated ..................................................................................................................................................... 10 

Guarantee C - Independent oversight mechanism ............................................................................................... 12 

Guarantee D - Effective remedies need to be available to the individual ............................................................. 13 

4. FINAL REMARKS .................................................................................................................................... 15 

 

3 3 3 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1) (e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the  Council  of  27  April  2016  on  the  protection  of  natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter 
“GDPR”),1 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20182, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 
Having regard to the Article 29 Working Party working document on the justification of interferences 
with  the  fundamental  rights  to  privacy  and  data  protection  through  surveillance  measures  when 
transferring personal data (European Essential Guarantees hereinafter “EEG”), WP237, 
 
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATIONS 

1. INTRODUCTION 

1. Following the Schrems I judgment, EU Data Protection Authorities assembled in the Working Party 
29  drew  upon  the  jurisprudence  to  identify  the  European  Essential  Guarantees,  which  need  to  be 
respected to make sure interferences with the rights to privacy and the protection of personal data, 
through surveillance measures, when transferring personal data, do not go beyond what is necessary 
and proportionate in a democratic society.  
 
2. The EDPB would like to stress that the European Essential Guarantees are based on the jurisprudence 
of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter: CJEU) related to Articles 7, 8, 47 and 52 of 
the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU (hereinafter: the Charter) and, as the case may be, on the 
jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights (hereinafter: ECtHR) related to Article 8 of the 
European Convention on Human Rights (hereinafter: ECHR) dealing with surveillance issues in States 
party to the ECHR.3 
 

                                                         
1  This  paper  does  not  address  situations  of  transfers  or  onward  sharing  falling  under  the  scope  of  the  Law 
Enforcement Directive (Directive (EU) 2016/680).   
2 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
3 In these Recommendations, the term “fundamental rights” is derived from the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights 
of the EU. However, it is used to also cover the “human rights” as included in the European Convention on Human 
Rights.  

 

4 

 

3. The update of this paper is meant to further develop the European Essential Guarantees, originally 
drafted in response to the Schrems I judgment4 by reflecting the clarifications provided by the CJEU 
(and by the ECtHR) since it was first published, in particular in its landmark Schrems II judgment.5.  
 
4. In  its  Schrems  II  judgment,  the  CJEU  stated  that  the  examination  of  the  Commission  Decision 
2010/87/EU on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to processors established 
in third countries, in the light of Articles 7, 8 and 47 of the Charter, has disclosed nothing to affect the 
validity of that decision, but invalidated the Privacy  Shield Decision. The CJEU held that the Privacy 
Shield Decision was incompatible with Article 45 (1) GDPR, in the light of Articles 7, 8, and 47 of the 
Charter. The judgment can thus serve as an example where surveillance measures in a third country (in 
this case the U.S. with Section 702 FISA and Executive Order 12 333) are neither sufficiently limited nor 
object of an effective redress available to data subjects to enforce their rights, as required under EU 
law in order to consider the level of protection in a third country to be “essentially equivalent” to that 
guaranteed within the European Union within the meaning of Article 45 (1) of the GDPR. 
 
5. The  reasons  for  the  invalidation  of  the  Privacy  Shield  also  have  consequences  on  other  transfer 
tools.6  Even  though  the  Court  interpreted  Article  46(1)  GDPR  in  the  context  of  the  validity  of  the 
Standard  Contractual  Clauses  (hereinafter:  SCCs),  its  interpretation  applies  to  any  transfer  to  third 
countries relying on any of the tools referred to in Article 46 GDPR7.  
 
6. It is ultimately for the CJEU to judge whether interferences with a fundamental right can be justified. 
However,  in  absence  of  such  a  judgment  and  in  application  of  the  standing  jurisprudence,  data 
protection authorities are required to assess individual cases, either ex officio or following a complaint, 
and to either refer the case to a national Court if they suspect that the transfer does not comply with 
Article 45 where there is an adequacy decision, or to suspend or prohibit the transfer if they find Article  
46 GDPR cannot be complied with and the protection of the data transferred required by EU law cannot 
be ensured by other means.  
 
7. The aim of the updated European Essential Guarantees is to provide elements to examine, whether 
surveillance measures allowing access to personal data by public authorities in a third country, being 
national security agencies or law enforcement authorities, can be regarded as a justifiable interference 
or not. 
 
8. Indeed,  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  form  part  of  the  assessment  to  conduct  in  order  to 
determine  whether  a  third  country  provides  a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that 
guaranteed within the EU but do not aim on their own at defining all the elements which are necessary 
to consider that a third country provides such a level of protection in accordance with Article 45 of the 
GDPR. Likewise, they do not aim on their own at defining all the elements that might be necessary to 
consider when assessing whether the legal regime of a third country prevents the data exporter and 
data importer from ensuring appropriate safeguards in accordance with Article 46 of the GDPR. 

                                                         
4  CJEU  judgment  of  6  October  2015,  Maximillian  Schrems  v  Data  Protection  Commissioner,  Case  C‑362/14, 
EU:C:2015:650 (hereinafter: Schrems I).  
5 CJEU judgment of 16 July 2020, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd, Maximillian Schrems, case 
C-311/18, ECLI:EU:C:2020:559 (hereinafter: Schrems II). 
6 See §105 of Schrems II. 
7 See §92 of Schrems II. 
 

5 

 

 
9. Therefore, the elements provided  in this paper should be seen as the essential guarantees to be 
found in the third country when  assessing the interference,  entailed by a third country  surveillance 
measures,  with  the  rights  to  privacy  and  to  data  protection,  rather  than  a  list  of  elements  to 
demonstrate that the legal regime of a third country as a whole is providing an essentially equivalent 
level of protection.  
 
10. Article 6(3) of the Treaty on European Union establishes that the fundamental rights enshrined in 
the ECHR constitute general principles of EU law.  However, as the CJEU recalls in its jurisprudence, the 
latter does not constitute,  as long  as the European Union has not acceded to it, a legal instrument 
which has been formally incorporated into EU law.8Thus, the level of protection of fundamental rights 
required  by  Article  46(1)  of  the  GDPR  must  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  the  provisions  of  that 
regulation,  read  in  the  light  of  the  fundamental  rights  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  This  being  said, 
according  to  Article  52(3)  of  the  Charter  the  rights  contained  therein  which  correspond  to  rights 
guaranteed  by  the  ECHR  are  to  have  the  same  meaning  and  scope  as  those  laid  down  by  that 
Convention,  and  consequently,  as recalled  by  the CJEU,  the  jurisprudence of  the ECtHR  concerning 
rights  which  are  also  foreseen  in  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights  of  the  EU  must  be  taken  into 
account,  as  a  minimum  threshold  of  protection  to  interpret  corresponding  rights  in  the  Charter. 9 
According  to  the  last  sentence  of  Article  52(3)  of  the  Charter,  however,  “[t]his  provision  shall  not 
prevent Union law providing more extensive protection.” 
 
11. Therefore,  the  substance  of  the  Essential  Guarantees  will  continue  to  be  partly  based  on  the 
jurisprudence of the ECtHR, to the extent that the Charter as interpreted by the CJEU does not provide 
for a higher level of protection which prescribes other requirements than the ECtHR case law. 
 
12. This paper explains the background and further details the four European Essential Guarantees.  

 

 

2. INTERFERENCES WITH FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS 

 
13. The fundamental rights to respect for private and family life, including communications, and to the 
protection of personal data  are laid down in Articles 7 and 8 of the  Charter  and apply to everyone. 
Article 8 furthermore sets conditions for the processing of personal data to be lawful and recognizes 
the right of access and rectification, as well as imposes that these rules are subject to the control of an 
independent authority.  
 
14. “(T)he  operation  of  having  personal  data  transferred  from  a  Member  State  to  a  third  country 
constitutes, in itself, processing of personal data”.10 Thus, Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter apply to this 
specific  operation  and  their  protection  extend  to  the  data  transferred,  which  is  why  data  subjects 

                                                         
8 See § 98 of Schrems II. 
9 See § 124 of joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18 and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net and others (hereinafter: La 
Quadrature du Net and others). 
10 CJEU, Schrems II, § 83. 

 

6 

 

whose  personal  data  are  transferred  to  a  third  country  must  be  afforded  a  level  of  protection 
essentially equivalent to that which is guaranteed within the European Union.11 
 
15. According to the CJEU, when the fundamental right to respect for private life enshrined in Article 7 
of  the  Charter  is  affected,  by  means  of  processing  an  individual’s  personal  data,  the  right  to  data 
protection is also affected, as such processing falls within the scope of Article 8 of the Charter, and, 
accordingly, must necessarily satisfy the data protection requirement laid down in that article.12 
 
16. Therefore,  as  regards  possible  interference  with  fundamental  rights  under  the  EU  law,  the 
obligation imposed on providers of electronic communications services (…) to retain traffic data for the 
purpose of making it available, if necessary, to the competent national authorities, raises issues relating 
to  compatibility  with  Articles 7  and  8  of  the  Charter.13  The  same  applies  to  other  types  of  data 
processing, such as the transmission of data to persons other than users or access to that data with a 
view to its use14, which, thus, entails an interference with those fundamental rights. Moreover, access 
to the data by a public authority constitutes a further interference, according to settled case-law.15 
 
17. In order to find an interference, it does not matter “whether the information in question relating 
to private life is sensitive or whether the persons concerned have been inconvenienced in any way on 
account of that interference.”16 The CJEU also stressed that whether or not the retained data has been 
subsequently used is irrelevant.17  
 
18. However, Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter are not absolute rights, but must be considered in relation 
to their function in society.18 
 
19. The  Charter  includes  a  necessity  and  proportionality  test  to  frame  limitations  to  the  rights  it 
protects. Article 52(1) of the Charter specifies the scope of possible limitations to Articles 7 and 8 by 
stating that “any limitation on the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognised by this Charter must 
be provided for by law and respect the essence of those rights and freedoms.  Subject to the principle 
of proportionality, limitations may be made only if they are necessary and genuinely meet objectives 
of general interest recognised by the Union or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others”. 
 
20. The  CJEU  reiterated  that  EU  legislation  involving  interference  with  the  fundamental  rights 
guaranteed by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter “must lay down clear and precise rules governing the 
scope and application of the measure and imposing minimum safeguards, so that the persons whose 
personal data is affected have sufficient guarantees that data will be effectively protected against the 
risk of abuse”, in particular where personal data is subjected to automatic processing and “where there 
is a significant risk of unlawful access to that data”.19 

                                                         
11 CJEU, Schrems II, § 96. 
12 CJEU, Schrems II, §§ 170-171. 
13 CJEU, case C-623/17, Privacy International (hereinafter: Privacy International), § 60. 
14 CJEU, Privacy International, § 61. 
15 ECtHR, Leander, §48; ECtHR, Rotaru §46; CJEU, Digital Rights Ireland, §35. 
16 CJEU, Schrems II, § 171, including cited jurisprudence. 
17 CJEU, Schrems II, §171, including cited jurisprudence. 
18 CJEU, Privacy International, §63. 
19 CJEU, Privacy International, §68 and jurisprudence referred therein. 

 

7 

 

 

21. According to the CJEU, the protection of the right to privacy requires that derogations from and 
restrictions to the right to data protection “must apply in so far as is strictly necessary”. Furthermore, 
an  objective  of  general  interest  must  be  reconciled  with  the  fundamental  rights  affected  by  the 
measure, “by properly balancing” such objective against the rights at issue.20  
 
22. Consequently, access, retention and further use of personal data by public authorities within the 
remit of surveillance measures must not exceed the limits of what is strictly necessary, assessed in the 
light of the Charter, otherwise it “cannot be considered to be justified, within a democratic society”.21  
 
23. The  four  European  Essential  Guarantees,  as  they  are  developed  in  the  next  chapter,  intend  to 
further specify how to assess the level of interference with the fundamental rights  to privacy and to 
data protection in the context of surveillance measures by public authorities in a third country, when 
transferring personal data, and what legal requirements must consequently apply in order to evaluate 
whether such interferences would be acceptable under the Charter. 
 
 

3. THE EUROPEAN ESSENTIAL GUARANTEES  

 
24. Following  the  analysis  of  the  jurisprudence,  the  EDPB  considers  that  the  applicable  legal 
requirements  to  make  the  limitations  to  the  data  protection  and  privacy  rights  recognised  by  the 
Charter justifiable can be summarised in four European Essential Guarantees: 
 

A.  Processing should be based on clear, precise and accessible rules 

B.  Necessity and proportionality with regard to the legitimate objectives pursued need to be 

demonstrated 

C.  An independent oversight mechanism should exist 

D.  Effective remedies need to be available to the individual 

 
25. The Guarantees are based on the fundamental rights to privacy and data protection that apply to 
everyone, irrespective of their nationality. 
 

Guarantee A - Processing should be based on clear, precise and accessible rules 

26. Under  Article 8(2)  of  the  Charter,  personal  data  should,  inter  alia,  be  processed  “for  specified 
purposes and on the basis of the consent of the person concerned or some other legitimate basis laid 
down by law”,22 as the CJEU recalled in the Schrems II ruling. Furthermore, under Article 52(1) of the 
Charter, any limitation on the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognised by the Charter within the 
EU must be provided for by law. Thus, a justifiable interference needs to be in accordance with the law.  
                                                         
20 CJEU, Privacy International, §68 and jurisprudence referred therein. 
21 CJEU, Privacy International, §81. 
22 See §173 Schrems II. 

 

8 

 

 
27. This legal basis should lay down clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of the 
measure  in  question  and  imposing  minimum  safeguards.23  In  addition,  the  Court  recalled  that 
“legislation must be legally binding under domestic law”.24 In this regard, the CJEU clarified that the 
assessment of the applicable third country law should focus on whether it can be invoked and relied 
on by individuals before a court.25 The Court therefore indicates that the rights granted to data subjects 
shall  be  actionable;  where  individuals  are  not  provided  with  enforceable  rights  against  public 
authorities,  the  level  of  protection  granted  cannot  be  considered  as  essentially  equivalent  to  that 
arising from the Charter, contrary to the requirement in Article 45(2)(a) of the GDPR.26 
 
28. Furthermore, the Court stressed that the applicable law must indicate in what circumstances and 
under which conditions a measure providing for the processing of such data may be adopted 27 (see 
infra under Guarantee B the relation between these requirements and the principles of necessity and 
proportionality).  
 
29. Moreover, the CJEU has also indicated that “the requirement that any limitation on the exercise of 
fundamental  rights  must  be  provided  for  by  law  implies  that  the  legal  basis  which  permits  the 
interference with those rights must itself define the scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right 
concerned”.28 

 

30. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights “does not consider that there is any ground to apply 
different  principles  covering  the  accessibility  and  clarity  of  the  rules  governing  the  interception  of 
individual communications, on the one hand, and more general programmes of surveillance”.29 The 
ECtHR as well has clarified that the legal basis should at least include a definition of the categories of 
people that might be subject to surveillance, a limit on the duration of the measure, the procedure to 
be followed for examining, using and storing the data obtained, and the precautions to be taken when 
communicating the data to other parties.30 

 

31. Lastly,  the  interference  must  be  foreseeable  as  to  its  effect  for  the  individual  in  order  to  give 
him/her adequate and effective protection against arbitrary interference and the risk of  abuse. As a 
result, the processing must be based on a precise, clear but also accessible (i.e. public) legal basis.31 
The  ECtHR,  concerning  this  question,  recalled  in  the  Zakharov  case  that  “the  reference  to 
‘foreseeability’ in the context of interception of communications cannot be the same as in many other 
fields”. It specified that in the context of secret measures of surveillance, such as the interception of 

                                                         
23 See §175 and §180 Schrems II and Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement) of 26 July 2017, § 139 and the 
case-law cited. 
24 See § 68 Privacy International – It should also be clear that in the French version of the judgment the Court uses 
the word “réglementation” which is broader than only acts of Parliament. 
25 See § 181 Schrems II, in this paragraph the CJEU refers to the US Presidential Policy Directive 28.  
26 See § 181 Schrems II. 
27 See § 68 of Privacy International, in relation to Member State law.  
28 See Schrems II, § 175 and the case-law cited, as well as Privacy International, § 65. 
29 ECtHR, Liberty, §63. 
30 ECtHR, Weber and Saravia, §95. 
31 ECtHR, Malone, §§65, 66. 

 

9 

 

communications, “foreseeability cannot mean that an individual should be able to foresee when the 
authorities are likely to intercept his communications so that he can adapt his conduct accordingly”. 
However, considering that in this kind of situation the risks of arbitrariness are evident “it is essential 
to have clear, detailed rules on interception of telephone conversations, especially as the technology 
available for use is continually becoming more sophisticated. The domestic law must be sufficiently 
clear to give citizens an adequate indication as to the circumstances in which and the conditions  on 
which public authorities are empowered to resort to any such measures”.32 

 

Guarantee  B  -  Necessity  and  proportionality  with  regard  to  the  legitimate  objectives 
pursued need to be demonstrated 

32. In accordance with the first sentence of Article 52(1) of the Charter, any limitation on the exercise 
of the rights and freedoms recognised by the Charter must respect the essence of those rights and 
freedoms.  Under  the  second  sentence  of  Article  52(1)  of  the  Charter,  subject  to  the  principle  of 
proportionality, limitations may be made to those rights and freedoms only if they are necessary and 
genuinely meet objectives of general interest recognised by the Union or the need to protect the rights 
and freedoms of others.33  
 
33. Regarding the principle of proportionality, the Court held, in relation to Member State laws, that 
the question as to whether a limitation on the rights to privacy and to data protection may be justified 
must be assessed, on the one hand, by measuring the seriousness of the interference entailed by such 
a limitation34 and by verifying that the  importance of the public interest objective pursued by that 
limitation is proportionate to that seriousness, on the other hand.35 
 
34. In La Quadrature du net and others, it can be noted that the CJEU ruled, in relation to the law of a 
Member State and not to a third country law, that the objective of safeguarding national security is, 
due  to  its  importance,  capable  of  justifying  measures  entailing  more  serious  interferences  with 
fundamental rights, than those which might be justified by other objectives such as of combating crime. 
It found however that this is the case as long as there are sufficiently solid grounds for considering that 
the State concerned is confronted with a serious threat to national security that is shown to be genuine 
and present or foreseeable and subject to meeting the other requirements laid down in Article 52(1) 
of the Charter.36  

                                                         
32 ECtHR, Zakharov, §229. 
33 Schrems II, § 174. 
34 In this context, the court noted for instance that “the interference constituted by the real-time collection of data 
that allows terminal equipment to be located appears particularly serious, since that data provides the competent 
national  authorities  with  a  means  of  accurately  and  permanently  tracking  the  movements  of  users  of  mobile 
telephones (...)” (La Quadrature du Net and others, § 187, including cited jurisprudence). 
35 La Quadrature du Net and others, § 131. 
36 §§136 and 137. See also Privacy International, as the Court specified, such threats can be distinguished, by their 
nature and particular seriousness, from the general risk that tensions or disturbances, even of a serious nature, 
affecting public security will arise. § 75. For instance, in La Quadrature du Net and others, the Court noted that 
the automated analysis of traffic and location data covering generally and indiscriminately the data of persons 
using electronic communications systems constitutes an interference particularly serious so that, such measure 

 

10 

 

 

35. In this regard, according to the settled case-law of the Court, derogations from and limitations on the 
protection  of personal data must apply only in so far as is strictly necessary.37  In  order  to  satisfy  this 
requirement, besides laying down clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of the 
measure in question, the legislation in question must impose minimum safeguards, so that the persons 
whose data have been transferred have sufficient guarantees to protect effectively their personal data 
against  the  risk  of  abuse.  “It  must,  in  particular,  indicate  in  what  circumstances  and  under  which 
conditions a measure providing for the processing of such data may be adopted, thereby ensuring that 
the interference is limited to what is strictly necessary. The need for such safeguards is all the greater 
where personal data is subject to automated processing”.38 

 

36. In Schrems II, the CJEU has stressed that legislation of a third country which does not indicate any 
limitations on the power it confers to implement surveillance programmes for the purposes of foreign 
intelligence  cannot  ensure  a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  by  the 
Charter. Indeed, according to the case law, a legal basis which permits interference with fundamental 
rights must, in order to satisfy the requirements of the principle of proportionality, itself define the 
scope of the limitation on the exercise of the right concerned.39  
 
37. Regarding the principle of necessity, the CJEU has made clear that legislations “authorising, on a 
generalised basis, storage of all the personal data of all the persons whose data has been transferred 
from the European Union (...) without any differentiation, limitation or exception being made in the 
light of the objective pursued and without an objective criterion being laid down by which to determine 
the limits of the access of the public authorities to the data and of its subsequent use, for purposes 
which are specific, strictly restricted and capable of justifying the interference which both access to the 
data  and  its  use  entail”,  do  not  comply  with  that  principle.40  In  particular,  laws  permitting  public 
authorities to have access on a generalised basis to the content of electronic communications must be 
regarded  as  compromising  the  essence  of  the  fundamental  right  to  respect  for  private  life,  as 
guaranteed by Article 7 of the Charter.41  
 
38. Likewise, however this time when assessing a Member State law and not a third country law, the 
CJEU held in La Quadrature du Net and others, that “legislation requiring the retention of personal data 
must always meet objective criteria  that establish a connection between the data retained and the 
objective pursued”.42 In the same context, in Privacy International, it also held that the legislator “must 
                                                         
can meet the requirement of proportionality only in situations in which the Member State concerned is facing a 
serious threat to national security which is shown to be genuine and present or foreseeable, and, among other 
conditions, provided that the duration of the retention is limited to what is strictly necessary (§§174-177).  
37 Schrems II, §176, including cited jurisprudence. 
38 Schrems II, § 175. 
39 Schrems II, § 180. 
40 Schrems I, § 93 with further references. See, however this time in relation to a Member State law and not a third 
country law, Privacy International, § 71, including cited jurisprudence. In this case, the Court stated that a Member 
State legislation requiring providers of electronic communications services to disclose traffic  data and location 
data to the security and intelligence agencies by means of general and indiscriminate transmission exceeds the 
limits of what is strictly necessary and cannot be considered to be justified, within a democratic society, as required 
by the Directive on privacy and electronic communication, read in light of the Charter (§81). 
41 Schrems I, §94. 
42 La Quadrature du Net and others, § 133. In this context, the Court confirmed that  legislative measures which 
provide,  as  a  preventive  measure,  for  the  general  and  indiscriminate  retention  of  traffic  and  location  data,  are 

 

11 

 

rely  on  objective  criteria  in  order  to  define  the  circumstances  and  conditions  under  which  the 
competent national authorities are to be granted access to the data at issue”.43  
 

Guarantee C - Independent oversight mechanism  

39. The EDPB recalls that an interference takes place at the time of collection of the data, but also at 
the  time the data  is  accessed  by  a public authority  for further processing.  The ECtHR has specified 
multiple times that any interference with the right to privacy and data protection should be subject to 
an effective, independent and impartial oversight system that must be provided for either by a judge 
or  by  another  independent  body44 (e.g.  an  administrative  authority  or  a  parliamentary  body).  The 
independent oversight over the implementation of surveillance measures was also taken into account 
by the CJEU in the Schrems II judgment.45  

 

40. The ECtHR specifies that while prior (judicial) authorization of surveillance measures is an important 
safeguard  against  arbitrariness, regard  must also  be given  to  the actual operation  of the  system  of 
interception, including the checks and balances on the exercise of power, and the existence or absence 
of actual abuse.46 In the Schrems II case, the CJEU also took into account the scope of the supervisory 
role of the oversight mechanism, which did not cover the individual surveillance measures.47.   
 
41. With  regard  to  Member  States  law,  the  CJEU  identified  a  number  of  measures  which  are  in 
compliance  with  EU  law  only  if  they  are  subject  to  effective  review  carried  out  by  a  court  or  an 
independent administrative authority whose decision is binding. The aim of that review is to verify that 
a situation justifying the measure exists and the conditions and safeguards that must be laid down are 
observed.48 For real-time collection of traffic and location data, the review should allow to check ex 
ante, inter alia, whether it is authorised only within the limits of what is strictly necessary. In cases of 
duly justified urgency, the measures may take place without such prior review; however, the Court still 
requires that the subsequent review takes place within a short time.49  

 
42. As to  the  independence of  oversight mechanisms in  relation  to  surveillance, the findings of the 
CJEU concerning the independence of a body in the context of redress could be taken into account (see 

                                                         
precluded by the Directive on privacy and electronic communication, read in light of the Charter.  By contrast, the 
Court ruled that, in situations of a serious threat to national security that is shown to be genuine and present or 
foreseeable,  the  legislator  may  allow,  for  safeguarding  national  security,  recourse  to  an  instruction  requiring 
providers of electronic communications services to retain, generally and indiscriminately, traffic and location data. 
Such measure must however meet specific conditions. In particular, the instruction may be given only for a period 
that is limited in time to what is strictly necessary, which may be extended if that threat persists (§168).  
43  Privacy  International,  §  78,  including  cited  jurisprudence.  In  Privacy  International,  as  regards  an  authority’s 
access to personal data provided under a Member State law, the Court ruled that “general access to all retained 
data, regardless of whether there is any link, at least indirect, with the aim pursued, cannot be regarded as being 
limited to what is strictly necessary” (§77 -78). 
44 ECtHR, Klass, §§17, 51. 
45 Schrems II, §§ 179, 183. 
46 ECtHR, Big Brother Watch under appeal §§319-320. 
47 Schrems II, § 179. 
48 CJEU, La Quadrature du Net and others, §§ 168, 189. 
49 CJEU, La Quadrature du Net and others, § 189. 

 

12 

 

infra under guarantee D). Furthermore, the case law of the ECtHR may offer additional elements. This 
Court has expressed its preference for a judge to be responsible to maintain oversight. However, it is 
not excluded that another body may be responsible, “as long as it is sufficiently independent from the 
executive”50 and “of the authorities carrying out the surveillance, and [is] vested with sufficient powers 
and competence to exercise an effective and continuous control”.51The ECtHR added that “the manner 
of appointment and the legal status of the members of the supervisory body”52 need to be taken into 
account  when  assessing  independence.  This  includes  “persons  qualified  to  hold  judicial  office, 
appointed either by parliament or by the Prime Minister. In contrast, a Minister of Internal Affairs  – 
who not only was a political appointee and a member of the executive, but was directly involved in the 
commissioning of special means of surveillance – was found to be insufficiently independent.”53 The 
ECtHR also “notes that it is essential that the supervisory body has access to all relevant documents, 
including closed materials”.54 Finally, the ECtHR takes into account “whether the supervisory body’s 
activities are open to public scrutiny”.55  
 

Guarantee D - Effective remedies need to be available to the individual 

43. The final European Essential Guarantee is related to the redress rights of the individual. (S)he must 
have an effective remedy to satisfy his/her rights when (s)he considers that they are not or have not 
been respected. The CJEU explained in Schrems I that “legislation not providing for any possibility for 
an individual to pursue legal remedies in order to have access to personal data relating to him, or to 
obtain the rectification or erasure of such data, does not respect the essence of the fundamental right 
to effective judicial protection, as enshrined in Article 47 of the Charter. The first paragraph of Article 
47 of the Charter requires everyone whose rights and freedoms guaranteed by the law of the European 
Union are violated to have the right to an effective remedy before a tribunal in compliance with the 
conditions laid down in that article.”56 
 
44. When assessing a Member State law allowing real time collection of traffic and location data, the 
Court considered that notification is necessary “to enable the persons affected to exercise their rights 
under Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter to request access to their personal data that has been the subject 
of those measures and, where appropriate, to have the latter rectified or erased, as well as to avail 
themselves, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter, of an effective remedy 
before a tribunal”.57 Nevertheless, it also recognized that the notification of persons whose data has 
been collected or analysed must occur only to the extent that and as soon as the notification no longer 
jeopardizes the tasks for which those authorities are responsible.58 
 

                                                         
50 ECtHR, Zakharov, §258, Iordachi and Others v. Moldova, §§ 40 and §§ 51 and Dumitru Popescu v. Romania,    §§ 
70¬73. 
51 ECtHR, Klass §56 and Big Brother Watch under appeal §318 
52 ECtHR, Zakharov, §278. 
53 ECtHR, Zakharov, §278. 
54 ECtHR, Zakharov, §281. 
55 ECtHR, Zakharov, §283. 
56 CJEU, Schrems I, §95. 
57 See § 190 of La Quadrature du Net and others and CJEU, Opinion 1/15, §220. 
58 See § 191 of La Quadrature du Net and others. 

 

13 

 

45. For the ECtHR, as well, the question of an effective remedy is inextricably linked to the notification 
of a surveillance measure to the individual once the surveillance is over. In particular, the Court found 
that “there is in principle little scope for recourse to the courts by the individual concerned unless the 
latter is advised of the measures taken without his or her knowledge and thus able to challenge their 
legality  retrospectively  or,  in  the  alternative,  unless  any  person  who  suspects  that  his  or  her 
communications are being or have been intercepted can apply to courts, so that the courts’ jurisdiction 
does not depend on notification to the interception subject that there has been an interception of his 
communications”.59 The ECtHR thus acknowledged that in some cases there might be no notification, 
however an effective remedy must be provided. In this case, this Court has made clear, for instance in 
the Kennedy case, that a court offers sufficient redress possibilities, if it meets a series of criteria, i.e. 
an  independent  and  impartial  body,  which  has  adopted  its  own  rules  of  procedure,  consisting  of 
members that must hold or have held high judicial office or be experienced lawyers and that there is 
no  evidential  burden  to  be  overcome  in  order  to  lodge  an  application  with  it.60  In  undertaking  its 
examination of complaints by individuals, the court should have access to all relevant information,61 
including closed materials. Finally, it should have the powers to remedy non-compliance.62  
 
46. Article 47 of the Charter refers to a tribunal, even though in language versions other than English 
the preference is given to the word “court”,63  while the ECHR only obliges Members States to ensure 
that  “everyone  whose  rights  and  freedoms  are  violated  shall  have  an  effective  remedy  before  a 
national authority”,64 which does not necessarily need to be a judicial authority.65 
 
47. The CJEU, in the context of the Schrems II judgment when assessing the adequacy of the level of 
protection of a third country, has reiterated that “data subjects must have the possibility of bringing 
legal action before an independent and impartial court in order to have access to their personal data, 
or to obtain the rectification or erasure of such data”.66 In the same context, the CJEU considers that 
an effective judicial protection against such interferences can be ensured not only by a court, but also 
by  a  body67  which  offers  guarantees  essentially  equivalent  to  those  required  by  Article  47  of  the 
Charter. In its Schrems II ruling, the CJEU both underlined that the independence of the court or body 
has to be ensured, especially from the executive, with all necessary guarantees, including with regards 
to its conditions of dismissal or revocation of the appointment,68 and that the powers which should be 
granted to a  court have to be compliant with the requirements of Article 47 of the Charter. In this 

                                                         
59 ECtHR, Zakharov, §234. 
60 ECtHR, Kennedy, § 190. 
61 The EDPB notes that the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights considers that the so-called “third 
parties”  rule  –  under  which  intelligence  agencies  in  one  country that  provide  data  to  intelligence  agencies  in 
another country can impose a duty on the receiving agencies to not disclose the transferred data to any third party 
–  should  not apply to  oversight bodies in order  not to undermine the possibility of an  effective remedy (Issue 
Paper on Democratic and effective oversight of national security services). 
62 ECtHR, Kennedy §167. 
63 The word tribunal is for example translated as “Gericht” in German and “gerecht” in Dutch. 
64 Article 13 ECHR. 
65 ECtHR, Klass §67. 
66 See § 194 Schrems II. 
67 See §197 Schrems II in which the Court expressly uses this word. 
68 See § 195 Schrems II. 

 

14 

 

regard, the body69 shall be granted the power to adopt decisions that are binding on the intelligence 
services, in accordance with legal safeguards on which data subjects could rely.70  
 
 

4. FINAL REMARKS 

48. The  four  European  Essential  Guarantees  are  to  be  seen  as  core  elements  to  be  found  when 
assessing the level of interference with the fundamental rights to privacy and data protection. They 
should not be assessed independently, as they are closely interlinked, but on an overall basis, reviewing 
the relevant legislation in relation to surveillance measures, the minimum level of safeguards for the 
protection of the rights of the data subjects and the remedies provided under the national law of the 
third country.  
 
49. These  guarantees  require  a  certain  degree  of  interpretation,  especially  since  the  third  country 
legislation does not have to be identical to the EU legal framework.   

 

50. As the ECtHR stated in Kennedy, an “assessment depends on all the circumstances of the case, such 
as the nature, scope and duration of the possible measures, the grounds required for ordering them, 
the authorities competent to authorise, carry out and supervise them, and the kind of remedy provided 
by national law”.71 

 

51. Consequently, the assessment of the third country surveillance measures against the EEG may lead 
to two conclusions:  
 

  The third country legislation at issue does not ensure the EEG requirements: in this case, the 
third  country  legislation  would  not offer  a level of protection  essentially  equivalent to that 
guaranteed within the EU. 
 

  The third country legislation at issue satisfies the EEG. 

 

52. When  assessing  the  adequacy  of  the  level  of  protection,  pursuant  to  Article  45  GDPR,  the 
Commission  will  have  to  evaluate  whether  the  EEG  are  satisfied  as  part  of  the  elements  to  be 
considered  to  guarantee  that  the  third  country  legislation  as  a  whole  offers  a  level  of  protection 
essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EU. 

 

53. When data exporters rely, along with the data importers, on appropriate safeguards under Article 
46 of the GDPR, given the requirements of the third country legislation specifically applicable to the 
data  transferred,  they  would  need  to  ensure  that  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection  is 
effectively achieved. In particular, where the law of the third country does not comply with the EEG 
requirements, this would imply to ensure that the law at stake will not impinge on the guarantees and 
safeguards surrounding the transfer, in order  for a level of protection essentially equivalent  to that 
guaranteed within the EU to be still provided.  

                                                         
69 See §197 Schrems II in which the Court expressly uses this word. 
70 See § 196 Schrems II. 
71 ECtHR, Kennedy §153. 

 

15 

 

 
54. The EDPB has issued further guidelines and recommendations to be taken into account to proceed 
with  the  assessment,  depending  on  the  transfer  tool  to  be  used  and  on  the  necessity  to  provide 
appropriate safeguards, including as the case may be, supplementary measures.72 
 
55. Furthermore,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  are  based  on  what  is 
required by the law. The EDPB underlines that the European Essential Guarantees are based on the 
fundamental rights that apply to everyone, irrespective of their nationality.  
 
56.  The  EDPB  reiterates  that  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  are  a  referential  standard  when 
assessing  the  interference,  entailed  by  third  country  surveillance  measures,  in  the  context  of 
international data transfers.  These standards stem from EU law and the jurisprudence of the CJEU and 
the ECtHR, which is binding on Member States. 
 
 

                                                         
72 Adequacy Referential WP 254 rev.01, Revised and Adopted 6 February 2018; EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 
on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal 
data, 10 November 2020. 
 

16 

