  Monday, September 10th, 2018 2: Press releases Standard data protection model: users can work with the first building blocks The standard data protection model (SDM) provides a method with which those responsible and supervisory authorities can assist in the development, in data protection advice and in the examination of data processing be able to assess whether personal data is being processed in accordance with data protection regulations. The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) recommended using this model for testing. The first building blocks are available. In the manual on the methodology of the standard data protection model, reference is made to a catalog of technical and organizational reference measures. In April 2018, the DSK decided that the catalog, which is divided into individual modules, should first be published successively by individual supervisory authorities and released for testing by users. For this purpose, a sub-working group "SDM modules" was set up, in which the following data protection authorities are involved: The Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, the Saxon Data Protection Commissioner, the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein and the Commissioner for data protection of the Evangelical Church in Germany. This working group has so far developed the following seven building blocks and has now published them: Data protection management Planning / specification Documentation Logging Separation Deleting Storage The texts can be found at https://www.datenschutz-mv.de/datenschutz/datenschutzmodell/ [Extern] Marit Hansen, State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein, welcomes the existence of these building blocks, which will be presented at today's summer academy in Kiel:
“So far, many users in the field of IT security have been working with the basic protection catalogs from the Federal Office for Information Security, which have been created and refined over the last few decades. For the standard data protection model, work with the data protection-specific modules is now starting. We need feedback from practice: How easy are the building blocks to understand? Do they cover most constellations? What is missing? We want to take this information into account in the next version.” The authors of the sub-working group expressly point out that these building blocks have not yet been agreed in the conference of independent federal and state data protection authorities. They recommend users to inform the data protection authorities about their experiences in testing the modules and thus to contribute to the further development of methods and measures. The SDM Methodology Manual (V1.1, test version) can be obtained from: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/ah/201804_ah_sdm.pdf [External]   Contact us if you have any questions or want to provide feedback on the modules Please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstr. 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: news, press releases, sdmArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure