

Questions regarding the implementation of Article 85 of GDPR
+
-


Datum: 05.07.2021
Številka: 07126-1/2021/27

Kategorije: Mediji, Razno
                        The Republic of Slovenia has not yet adopted and implemented the national legislation necessary to fully enact all the provisions of the GDPR, which is directly applicable. Among other, the missing national provisions concern implementation of Art. 85 and also the national rules on sanctions based on Art. 83 of the GDPR.
 
However, the current draft national law implementing the provisions you are interested in, dated 30th of April, 2021 proposes the implementation of the following provisions regarding the provisions based on Article 85 of the GDPR:
 

Article 71 stipulates that everyone is free to collect, receive and disseminate their opinions, as well as the personal data contained therein, which are necessary and justifiably processed for this purpose. Also, the same article stipulates that using, publishing, or otherwise disclosing personal data to exercise freedom of expression is allowed if:

 

the individual has given consent to the use, publication, or disclosure of personal data;
the individual has already made personal data public or made personal data available to the public;
personal data has already been lawfully made available to the public;
personal data has been obtained based on the presence of an individual in the publicly accessible places or events where the individual cannot reasonably expect protection of privacy in all circumstances, and in a manner that does not significantly interfere with the reasonably expected privacy,
it is a lawful publication of an opinion or value assessment, where the publication of personal data is necessary for the rationale for that opinion or assessment,
the personal data has been obtained in another lawful manner,
the public interest in informing the public, the right to information, and freedom of expression prevail over the legitimate interests of the protection of the privacy and other personal rights of the individual or
if the same is provided by another law.

 

Article 72 stipulates the legal relationship between the right to access public information (so-called FOI requests) and the right to personal data protection, where it is defined that the personal data may be disclosed to the public (by the liable entities) if those personal data are public under the law or if the overriding public interest is given for their disclosure under the law governing access to public information. The same article also provides the basis on public disclosure of the personal data that is defined by law as public.

 

Article 73 stipulates the exception to inform the individual if the personal data of the individual is public by law.

 
As this is the current draft version, changes to the provisions can be expected.
 
In can also be noted, that the predecessor of GDPR in Slovenia, the Personal Data Protection Act  (ZVOP-1), which is still partially in force (only specific provisions that are not in contravention with the GDPR) includes a provision regarding processing of personal data by the media, when used to inform the public. The provision includes  a number of exceptions applicable to the media, when they are processing personal data to inform the public. In such case, the media are not obliged to:

prescribe in their internal acts the procedures and measures for the security of personal data and define the persons responsible for individual filing systems and the persons who, due to the nature of their work, shall process individual personal data;
establish the filing system catalogue;
notify the supervisory body regarding the establishment and modification of a filing system or prior to the entry of a new type of personal data;
ensure the rights of the individual, such as the right to information, correct, block, erase, and to object, etc.

 
Hopefully our replies are of value to you.
 
Kind regards,
 
Mojca Prelesnik
Information Commissioner of the Republic of Slovenia
