
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07/20/2020
                                Data protection authority publishes recommendations for action on state transparency law - Kugelmann: Authorities should start preparations nowGovernment bodies must publish extensive environmental information on the state's transparency platform from January 1, 2021. The preparatory work should start now. The state authorities, the municipalities and the municipal associations must then enter climate data, information on water quality and environmental and flood protection concepts on the transparency platform of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI), Professor Dieter Kugelmann, explains: "The State Transparency Act, which Prime Minister Malu Dreyer played a key role in promoting, represents a milestone in terms of freedom of information. The more information that is proactively given to citizens are made available, the better it is to show transparency and openness. The more government information citizens can find on the Internet without having to submit an application, the more trust it creates."Kugelmann continues: "The transparency The platform of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate will be fully available from January 1, 2021. From that point on, the public authorities are obliged to publish the specified information on the platform. should now quickly start the preparatory work For example, to prepare which data and information is to be uploaded and in what form it should be prepared." To support the state authorities, the LfDI has drawn up a recommendation for action. This has been coordinated with the Rhineland-Palatinate Ministry of the Interior and the district council. The recommendation for action also states that, in addition to the State Transparency Act, special legal provisions also oblige a large number of public bodies to publish the environmental information they have without a citizen submitting an application for access to information. The recommendation for action can be found on the website of the State Commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate can be downloaded.
                                return
                            



