REPORT
ANNUAL

2019

INTRODUCTION

The National Data Protection Commission (CNPD) is a

independent public institution with legal personality. She

enjoys financial and administrative autonomy.

It is responsible for verifying the legality of files and all collections,
uses and disclosures of information about individuals
identifiable and must ensure in this context respect for the freedoms and rights
fundamental rights of natural persons, in particular their private life.

Annual Report

2

2019 cnpd

it must in particular control and verify whether the data subject to processing are processed in
compliance with the provisions:
• the General Data Protection Regulation;
• the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of

data and the general data protection regime;

• the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security;
• the amended law of 30 May 2005 on the protection of privacy in the sector of

electronic communications;

• legal texts providing for specific provisions on the protection of personal data

personal character.

it is not competent to control the processing operations of personal data
personnel carried out by the courts of the judiciary, including the public prosecutor, and
administrative order in the exercise of their judicial functions. This mission falls to
the judicial data protection supervisory authority.

Annual Report

3

2019 cnpd

INTRODUCTION

assignments
the CnpD aims to protect the privacy of citizens and to ensure respect for the
data protection legislation which entrusts it with the following tasks:

Inform and guide with:
• raising public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules, guarantees and

rights relating to processing;

• raising the awareness of data controllers and processors with regard to the

obligations incumbent on them.

Advise through:
• notices relating to bills and regulatory or administrative measures concerning

the processing of personal data;

• suggestions and recommendations addressed to the government, in particular concerning the
relevant developments, insofar as they have an impact on data protection
of a personal nature, in particular in the field of information technology and
communication and business practices;

• the promotion of good practices and the publication of thematic guidelines;
• approval of codes of conduct, certification schemes and accreditation of organizations

certification;

• recommendations to the controller in accordance with the consultation procedure

prior.

Supervise and ensure transparency by:
• inspections following complaints or on its own initiative;
• data protection audits;
• response to data breaches;
• maintaining internal records of GDPR violations;
• the establishment and maintenance of a list in connection with the obligation to carry out an analysis

impact relating to data protection;

• approval of Binding Corporate Rules;
• reviewing certifications and monitoring certifiers;
• the adoption of corrective measures (e.g. warning, prohibition of treatment or fine

administration).

Cooperate through:
• exchanges with other national or foreign supervisory authorities;
• contributing to the activities of the European Data Protection Board.

Annual Report

4

2019 cnpd

values
the CnpD independently exercises the missions assigned to it. she determines her
own priorities within the limits of its legal framework. it chooses its priorities in particular on the basis
criteria such as the seriousness and extent of the violation of the law and the extent of the individuals affected.

expertise is very important for the CnpD which is dedicated to quality work. to this end, the
CnpD strives to work with interdisciplinary teams and invests in the development
of its employees to improve their knowledge and skills.

the CnpD ensures transparency with regard to its results and its choices, which generates support
for his work and invites dialogue. the CnpD is open, honest and visible. she promotes a
positive and open atmosphere.

the CnpD is proud to work for the protection of a fundamental right. she bears witness to her
commitment to its work and its staff and is a full player in the environment
socio-economic Luxembourg.

Annual Report

5

2019 cnpd

Contents

1 FOREWORD

2 THE YEAR 2019 AT A GLANCE

3 ACTIVITIES IN 2019
  1 AWARENESS, GUIDANCE AND ADVICE
 
 
 
 
 
 

  1.1 awareness actions
  1.2 organization of training and conferences
  1.3 participation in the work of various commissions and networks
  1.4 Development of guidance
  1.5 reviews
  1.6 handling inquiries

8

14

18
18
18
19
23
24
26
37

  2 compliance and control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

38
38
  2.1 complaint handling
42
  2.2 Checks carried out
44
  2.3 notification of data breaches
  2.4 Appointment of Data Protection Officers
50
  2.5 Prior consultation in the context of a data protection impact assessment 51
53
  2.6 Certificates
  2.7 international transfers of personal data
54
  2.8 Corrective measures and sanctions
56
  2.9 processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in criminal matters
 
  2.10 retention of traffic and location data

national security

57
65

 

Annual Report

6

2019 cnpd

3 working internationally
 
 
 
 
 

  3.1 the European Data Protection Board
  3.2 the “Berlin Group”
  3.3 Spring conference of European data protection authorities
  3.4 International Conference of Data Protection Commissioners
  3.5 the European “Case Handling Workshop” seminar

4 RESOURCES, STRUCTURES AND OPERATIONS
  1 management report on the financial statements for the 2019 financial year
 
  2 STAFF AND SERVICES
 
 
  3 organization chart of the cnpd

  2.1 new appointments in 2019

5 APPENDICES

66
66
70
71
71
73

74
74

78
80

81

82

Annual Report

7

2019 cnpd

foreword

1

middle school: thierry lallemang, tine a. larsen, Christophe Buschmann and Marc lemmer.

May 25, 2018 was the effective date of the General Data Protection Regulation1, plus

commonly referred to as the rGpD (or GDpr - General Data protection regulation).

2019 was thus the first full year that the CnpD has worked under the aegis of the GDPR and the new laws.
2018 data protection laws2.

as a reminder, the new regime applies to all public and private actors – specifically those collecting,
managing or storing personal data – and aims to regulate the use of this data, with the aim of:

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data

personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC.

2 law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the CnpD and the general data protection regime and law of 1 August 2018 on data protection

in criminal matters and in matters of national security.

Annual Report

8

2019 cnpd

- strengthen the right of citizens (right of access, right to be forgotten, right to portability, etc.);
- make the actors who process personal data more responsible (“accountability” approach) and
- standardize data protection regulations in order to establish a harmonized framework within the union

European.

more than a year after the entry into application of the GDPR, the results of a special Eurobarometer3 by the Commission
European Union have shown that data protection is a matter of concern for citizens
Europeans.
 
According to the survey, which is based on the point of view of 27,000 Europeans, 73% of those questioned had
Heard of at least one of the six rights guaranteed by the GDPR. in addition, 67% were aware of the GDPR
(71% in Luxembourg) and 57% were aware of the existence of national authorities responsible for the protection
Datas. in luxembourg, 58% of respondents were aware of the CnpD, an increase of
25% compared to 2015.

INCREASED ACTIVITY

the new rules and the growing interest of individuals and professionals in the issues of data protection
data led to an increase in requests from the CnpD.

while remaining below the peak of requests in 2018, the number of requests remains high with 708
requests for information in writing in 2019. whereas in 2018, with the entry into application of the GDPR, a
large number of requests were related to more general questions relating to compliance with the
new legislation, solicitations have become more specific, demonstrating greater awareness
actors in 2019.

with 16 opinions on bills or regulatory measures related to data protection, the CnpD has
actively participated in the legislative process.

one of the most significant opinions of the year related to the central file of the grand-ducal police. In the framework of
of this opinion, the CnpD had been nourished by the concerns of citizens, the numerous parliamentary questions
and answers to these questions by the ministers concerned. the CnpD had also asked the authorities
data protection authorities of other Member States regarding their legal framework for data protection.
data surrounding police files in their countries. In addition, during the summer of 2019, the CnpD met
on several occasions with the Grand Ducal police, with the aim of deepening its understanding of the management and
the use made of the central file by the latter.

3 https://ec.europa.eu/commfrontoffice/publicopinion/index.cfm/survey/getsurveydetail/instruments/special/surveyky/2222

Annual Report

9

2019 cnpd

The CNPD has also taken a position concerning, in particular, the video surveillance of public spaces and places.
for public security purposes (VISUPOL), the use of video surveillance by municipalities, the register
beneficial owners, non-profit associations and foundations, identification reference directories
of patients and providers or the terms and conditions for setting up the care file
share.

The 2019 annual report also includes a special section on the processing of personal data
personnel in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security covering the period from August 20, 2018
as of December 31, 2019.

GUIDANCE, AWARENESS AND MONITORING ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS

The CNPD continued its guidance and awareness-raising efforts in 2019 with the development of guidelines
guidelines on various topics such as the consequences of Brexit on international transfers
of data, electoral campaigns in compliance with data protection or compliance
to the GDPR of mobile video surveillance cameras intended to film public roads (of the type
“dashcams”).

The supervisory authority continued to organize “DaProLab4” after the success of the first edition in 2018.
The 2019 workshops focused on the security of data exchange between professionals in the
health sector, data protection impact assessments, data processing for
scientific, historical or statistical research and on data processing in the finance sector/
insurance.

Alongside the events it organized itself, the National Commission also took part in around thirty
training, conferences and seminars to raise the awareness of more specialized audiences to the challenges of protection
Datas.

In addition, the CNPD has begun to set up a technological and legal monitoring activity to monitor
innovation topics such as new technologies in the financial sector (Fintech), technology
blockchain and artificial intelligence.

A RECORD NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS AND A NEW INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE

The number of complaints increased significantly compared to the previous year, from 450 in 2018 to
625 in 2019.

4 CNPD's Open Data Protection Laboratory.

10

1FOREWORDANNUALREPORT2019 CNPDANNUALREPORT These complaints come from people who have used the services of the CnpD when they consider
that there has been a violation of the law or interference with the exercise of their rights. more than a quarter of complaints
(26%) was motivated by the non-respect of the right of access by the data controllers. requests
deletion or rectification of data for which the desired consequences had not been reserved
constituted 21% of complaints and 11% related to the right of opposition and prospecting.

in 2019, the Cnpd drafted a new regulation relating to the investigation procedure which was adopted at the beginning of 2020.
the new regulation takes into account the cnpd’s two-pronged approach to investigations. On one side he
there is the “reactive” side, largely driven by complaints, and on the other side the “proactive” side.

the number of on-site investigations (“reactive” component) increased from 12 in 2018 to 33 in 2019. These investigations
concerned in particular the fields of video surveillance, geolocation, advertising and
marketing.

“Proactive” checks were carried out in the form of a data protection audit. in 2019, the
CnpD continued the work begun in 2018 concerning the 25 thematic audit procedures on the
function of Data Protection Officer (DpD). most of the investigations were closed at the end of 2019
to be transferred to the National Commission sitting in restricted decision-making formation on the outcome of
investigation.

in parallel with the Dpo campaign, 9 reactive audits were opened. These are national complaints or complaints from the
European cooperation mechanism for which the CnpD has decided to open an audit. These complaints concern
various issues including, for example: the right of access, data security, the recruitment process
or the management of cookies, for example.

526 data breaches since the GDPR came into effect

Since May 25, 2018, data controllers must notify personal data breaches
personnel to the CnpD within 72 hours of becoming aware of it if the violation in question is
likely to create a risk for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

in 2019, 354 data breaches were notified to the CnpD. in total, the CnpD received 526 violations of
data since May 25, 2018, i.e. 28 notifications per month. As for 2018, the main cause remains
human error. to remedy this, data controllers and processors must further monitor the
human factor. Above all, this involves raising awareness and training staff, which must be systematic.
and regular.

Annual Report

11

2019 cnpd

foreword

1

cnpd: reorganization of services and adaptation of the organization chart

during 2019, the CnpD reorganized its services and adapted its organization chart in order to
better able to carry out its missions and to facilitate the legibility of its activities.

These are more particularly the "Awareness", "Guidance", "Compliance" services,
“complaints”, “investigations” and “administration”. in addition, the functions have been defined
following directly attached to the National Commission: the secretary(s) of the college, the
European and International Relations and the Data Protection Officer.

2019 was also marked by the preparation for a change of premises. the works
planning began in the summer to allow the CnpD to move to the new
naoS building in esch-Belval in 2020.

outlook

at the time of finalizing the drafting of this report, exceptional events having marked
so far the year 2020 shows how the protection of personal data has become a
fundamental subject in the societal, economic and political life, and this at a global level
than local.

in particular the health crisis linked to the SarS-CoV-2 (CoVID-19) virus has created challenges in the short and long term.
unprecedented long term for public and private actors. personal data,
in particular health data, are at the heart of the issues related to the pandemic. the states
must face up to this new threat while ensuring respect for democracy, the state of
law and human rights, including rights to privacy and protection of
data. GDPR has proven to be a flexible tool to support the development of digital solutions
in unforeseen circumstances such as these and the CnpD strives to support all
actors in this context, be they professionals, individuals or the government.

On another level, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) invalidated the enforcement decision
relating to the “Privacy Shield” in July 2020 in the Data protection Commissioner v.
Facebook Ireland and Maximillian Schrems (Schrems II) on the adequacy of the level of protection of
personal data offered by the United States in the context of data transfers to this country.
on the other hand, the Court ruled that the decision of the European Commission relating to the clauses
standard contractual terms for the transfer of personal data to established processors

Annual Report

12

2019 cnpd

CnpD headquarters in Belval

in third countries remained, in principle, valid. At the same time, it pointed out that these contractual clauses
impose an obligation for the data exporter and the recipient of the transfer to verify, in advance, that
this level of protection is respected in the third country concerned, if necessary by putting in place safeguards
additional. otherwise, Luxembourg and European players must suspend their data transfers
and/or terminate contracts with data recipients located in third countries. This judgment constitutes
a key event which will therefore have a considerable impact on Luxembourg players and will mobilize the CnpD and
its European counterparts through the cooperation mechanism.

the investments made by the CnpD in 2019 for the development of its organization, the recruitment of
new employees and collaboration with colleagues at European and international level will enable
the National Commission to continue to carry out its mission and achieve its objectives during the current year and
in the years to come.
 
luxembourg, august 6, 2020

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

Annual Report

13

2019 cnpd

JANUARY
18 •

The CNPD publishes guidelines on the consequences of Brexit in terms of transfers
international data.

22-23 • The CNPD participates in the International Cybersecurity Forum as a partner.
28 •
28 •
28 •

13th Data Protection Day.
The CNPD participates in the Data Privacy Day organized by Restena and the University of Luxembourg.
The CNPD gives a presentation on “The role of the CNPD in the era of the new general regulation on
data protection” to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

FEBRUARY
13 •

The CNPD is organizing the second DaProLab on the security of data exchange between professionals in the
healthcare sector and between professionals and patients.

MARCH
6 •

8 •

APRIL
19 •

26 •

MAY
1 •
6 •
22 •

The CNPD draws up a list of processing operations for which a data protection impact analysis is required.
OBLIGATORY.
Appointments of Mr. Marc Lemmer as statutory auditor and of Mrs. Martine Kraus as
alternate member of the CNPD college.

The CNPD publishes guidelines on “electoral campaigns with respect for the protection of
personal data ".
The CNPD is organizing the third DaProLab on feedback from the DPIA (Analyses
of Impact on Data Protection).

Marc Lemmer joins the CNPD as Data Protection Commissioner.
The CNPD participated in the Data Protection Days with a presentation "GDPR, one year later - what assessment?" ".
The CNPD publishes an opinion on the video surveillance of public spaces and places for public security purposes
and an opinion on the use of video surveillance by municipalities.

14

22019 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT2019 ANNUAL REPORT AT A GLANCE July
3 •

the CnpD organizes the fourth edition of Daprolab on the theme of "the implementation of the protection of
data for processing for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes”.

september
13 •

the CnpD issues an opinion on the central file of the grand-ducal police with regard to the legislation on the
Data protection.

october
4 •

 the CnpD organizes the fifth Daprolab on the theme “Impacts on individuals for the treatments
of data in the finance/insurance sector”.

21-24 • the CnpD participates in the 41st international conference of data protection commissioners in

tirana (albania).

November
4-6 •
15 •

15 •

the CnpD takes part in the Web Summit in lisbon.
the International Conference of Data Protection Commissioners has changed its name to
“Global privacy assembly (Gpa)”.
the CnpD publishes guidance on the use of “dashcams”.

December
10 •
16 •

International Human Rights Day.
the CnpD takes part in the conference “defending rights and freedoms in the Grand Duchy of luxembourg” in
the university of luxembourg.

Annual Report

15

2019 cnpd

the year 2019
in one look

2

AWARENESS, GUIDANCE AND ADVICE

3,000

brochures
distributed

36

presentationS

4

daprolabS

on Protection Day
data on January 28, 2019

at conferences, seminars

and round tables

event allowing the exchange of views
on a specific subject between professionals

data protection

Subjects discussed :

• Security of data exchange between

healthcare professionals
• Protection Impact analyzes

of Data (aipD)

• processing for research purposes
scientific, historical or statistical

• data processing in the sector

finance and insurance

3

news
guidanceS

16

notice

708

requests for
information

in writing

• guidelines on consequences

of Brexit in terms of transfers

international data

• electoral campaigns in the
compliance with data protection

• the use of security cameras

mobile video surveillance intended to film

public roads (such as "dashcams")

is it GDPR compliant?

relating to projects or proposals
laws or regulatory measures,

including in particular opinions on:
• the central police file

• video surveillance of spaces

and public places

• the use of video surveillance

by the municipalities

top 3 questions concern:

1. CCTV

2. the data protection officer

3. the right of access

Annual Report

16

2019 cnpd

COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL

625

complaints

main reasons:

1. failure to respect the right of access (26%)

2. Request for erasure or

rectification not respected (21%)

3. Right of opposition
and prospecting (11%)
+ 39% compared to 2018

354

notifications
violations
of data
Main reason:

human error (63%)
nature of incidents:

1. personal data sent to

wrong recipient (34%)
2. hacking, hacking (15%)

3. disclosure of personal data

to the wrong person (12%)
more than half of the incidents are
detected within 5 days of their

occurrence.

25

audits

“proactive”

9

auditS

“reagents”

to check the
compliance of
organisms
in terms of
designation and

implementation
the role of the delegate
to the protection of

data

started in 2018

It is

reactions to

complaints about
issues

varied: the law

access, security

Datas,
the process
recruitment,
the management of
cookies, etc.

33

surveys
On the spot

in the fields of

video surveillance, geolocation,

advertising and marketing

731

delegates

to protection

DATA (dpo)
natural or legal persons

declared to the CnpD

1090

responsible for
treatment have
communicated the

contact details of their

dpo at the cnpd

compared to 12 in 2018

including 238 in 2019

including 272 in 2019

Annual Report

17

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

1 AWARENESS, GUIDANCE AND ADVICE

 

 

1.1 AWARENESS ACTIONS

JANUARY 28, 2019: 13TH DATA PROTECTION DAY

the Council of Europe, with the support of the European Commission, solemnly proclaimed on 28 January
each year as "Data Protection Day". the aim is to raise public awareness of
the importance of protecting their personal data and respecting their fundamental rights and freedoms,
especially their private lives.

why January 28? This is the date of the opening for signature of the "Convention 108" of the Council of Europe
(January 28, 1981). The latter was the first legally binding international instrument in this area.
For 38 years, the convention has aimed to protect any natural person against the misuse of data which
concern them and to ensure transparency with regard to the files and processing of personal data.

 

DISTRIBUTION OF THE BROCHURE “YOUR DATA? your rights ! »

As part of the 13th Data Protection Day, the CnpD distributed its awareness brochure
the general public at strategic locations in luxembourg (luxembourg-Gare, high schools in limpertsberg and Glacis).

the purpose of this publication entitled “Your data? Your rights ! is to present the rights of citizens in terms of
data protection and explain how to enforce them.

the brochure is available in French and German. it is available in printed form and can be downloaded
on the CnpD website.

 
 

INTERVENTIONS DURING THE “DATA PRIVACY DAY”
AND WITH THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION

the CnpD also participated in two events on the occasion of Data Protection Day with:

• a presentation on “the role of the CnpD in the era of the new general data protection regulation”

given to the staff of the Court of Justice of the European Union; And

• an intervention at the “Data privacy Day”, organized by the university of luxembourg and restena, on the theme of

the impact of data breaches on the rights of citizens.

Annual Report

18

2019 cnpd

Distribution of the brochure “Your Data? Your rights ! »

1.2 ORGANIZING TRAINING AND CONFERENCES

 

a) “PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION PROFESSIONAL” TRAINING

the CnpD and the CSl have combined their skills to develop a new evening course: the “professional
in the protection of personal data”.

the target audience for this training are data controllers or any person responsible for the
Protection of personal data.

the training aims to understand the issues of data protection and the potential sources of risk,
to share methods and tools as well as to know the actors in support like the CnpD. modules
proposed provide learners with solid knowledge of the legislation in force, the systems
information, compliance and communication. the training-action part allows for its part, through
situations, learners to acquire good reflexes and build up a toolbox.

The modules that make up this course are:
• Governance and understanding of information systems
• the legal framework for the protection of personal data and its challenges
• Training-action: good practices in the protection of personal data
• Raise awareness and communicate
• auditing and compliance

Each module has 25 hours spread over 10 sessions at the rate of one evening per week outside the
Luxembourg school holidays.

Annual Report

19

2019 cnpd



B) DAPROLAB

In 2019, the CNPD continued to organize “DaProLab (CNPD’s Open Data Protection Laboratory)” after the
success of the first edition in 2018.

What is the DaProLab?

• A workshop where a single specific subject defined in advance is discussed with the objective of exchange

ideas, interpretations, points of view on this subject between data protection professionals.

• As part of their accountability, participants can compare their decisions,
positions, points of view, ideas, practices with the other participants in order to obtain feedback on
to their choices.

• Exchanges of knowledge, experience and good practices.

The second DaProLab took place on February 13, 2019 and focused on the security of data exchanges between
professionals in the health sector (hospital sector, medical practices, pharmacies, laboratories, entities
public…) as well as between professionals and patients.

This session covered:
• risks related to exchanges (including risks related to the identification of recipients);
• the technical security of exchanges;
• communication channels;
• exchanges between professionals and exchanges between professionals and patients.

The third DaProLab took place on April 26, 2019 and focused on the theme "feedback on AIPD -
Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA)”.
The program for the session was as follows:
• reminder on the AIPD by the CNPD;
• sharing of feedback: presentations / achievements by 3 players (IGSS; LuxGap; GRC Luxembourg);
• exchanges and discussion.

The fourth edition took place on July 3, 2019 and focused on the theme of "the implementation of the protection of
data for processing for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes”.

During this session, the following topics were covered:
• establishment of a “data protection” culture within organisations: best practices and difficulties;
• implementation of DPIAs in the world of research: difficulties linked to the identification of responsibilities;

20

3CNPD 2019 ANNUAL REPORTACTIVITIES IN 2019 • sharing of feedback;
• exchanges and discussion.

the fifth Daprolab took place on October 4, 2019 on the theme “Impacts on individuals for treatments
of data in the finance/insurance sector”.

the following topics were covered:
• evaluation of the impacts on individuals of processing operations within the framework of aids;
• assessment of the impacts on individuals in the context of data breaches;
• discussions focused in particular on the difficulties in assessing the impacts on individuals due to the

lack of history, knowledge bases, real feedback.

 

c) other events in which the cnpd participated

Alongside the events it organized itself, the National Commission also participated in training,
conferences and seminars to make more specialized audiences aware of the challenges of data protection.
the supervisory authority intervened regularly during recurrent training with:
• the Ecole Supérieure de travail (eSt) and Inap for general training on data protection;
• from luxinnovation during a Fit4Start session with a presentation entitled “What does GDpr mean to my

start-up? » ;

rGpD of a tpe/sMe”;

• the Luxembourg trade confederation (clc) during a lively workshop entitled “the ecosystem

• the Chamber of Employees (CSl) with a presentation on the documentation to respect the principle of

responsibility (“accountability”) and on the legal framework for the protection of personal data;

• the order of architects and consulting engineers (oai) in collaboration with the House of training of the Chamber
de Commerce with a presentation entitled “General Data Protection Regulation: Principles and
practical cases ".

Presentations focusing on the missions and powers of the CnpD were also given during the era
(academy of european law) Summer Course on european Data protection law and at the Chamber of Employees.

The new General Data Protection Regulation
in 2019, the Cnpd participated in many events related to the new rules on protection
data in order to raise the awareness of as many people as possible.

More general presentations concerning GDPR compliance were given to the Service
National Youth Council (SnJ) and the non-profit organization Foyers Seniors.

Annual Report

21

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

at other conferences and trainings, the topics of the presentations were more specific in order to take into account
the needs of the target audience. thus, the CnpD intervened:

• at the 11th edition of the International Cybersecurity Forum in Lille, which brought together nearly 10,000 participants. there
CnpD shared its feedback during the round table "the rGpD is one year old: what results?" ". the discussions
focused in particular on the results in figures since the entry into force of the GDPR, the successes and difficulties for
private and public organizations to comply with GDPR; awareness of the general public on the exercise
their data protection rights; the exercise of the function of Dpo and its integration within
organizations and on the collaboration of data protection authorities within the European committee;
• at the 12th edition of the conference “CpDp2019 Computers, privacy and Data protection conference” in Brussels.
the theme of the three-day conference was data protection and democracy. at this
occasion, the CnpD took part in the round table “AI governance: role of legislators, tech companies and standards
bodies” organized by the interdisciplinary center Snt of the university of luxembourg. the CnpD presented
its view of the governance required, at different levels, by the application of the requirements of the
regulation on data protection to processing based on artificial intelligence techniques and the
challenges that all stakeholders face in this context.

• at the conference “rGpD: 1 year later… Come and discuss with the CnpD! » organized by the confederation

• at the luxembourg Data protection Days with the presentation entitled “sharing experiences: recommendations

Luxembourg trade (clc);

practices after a year of GDPR? » ;

• at the european Data privacy Congress organized by the Dury rechtsanwälte office with a presentation entitled “one Year

into GDPr from the regulators’ perspective”;

• at the Ferrero Global Privacy Workshop with the presentation “one Year into GDPr: the emergence of a global

standard ? » ;

• during a conference organized by IFe on the first feedback from the CnpD concerning the rGpD.

Other themes
the CnpD has also participated in numerous conferences and events on more specific topics
as :
• CnpD “GDpr Carpa” certification and certification scheme with Ernst & Young;
• the topic “artificial Intelligence and Data privacy” with the aBBl;
• data protection in the context of genealogical research at aalt Stadhaus in Differdange;
• Blockchain regulations and governance in Europe during a round table organized by Infrachain asbl;
• data breaches in the financial sector during a conference organized by the aBBl;
• the processing of personal data for archival purposes in the public interest while respecting the protection

data at Archivists' Day;

• CnpD audits and investigations during Cyber Security Week;

Annual Report

22

2019 cnpd

• the theme "protecting the right to privacy and data protection in a society of risks" at the seminar entitled

“Human rights insights – Data protection” at the University of Luxembourg;

• new digital technologies, innovation and startups, at the Web Summit in lisbon as part of
a visit organized by the Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce and its enterprise europe network, in
collaboration with the House of Startups, the loIC and luxinnovation.

 

d) the “gdpr compliance Support tool”

in order to help organizations in their compliance efforts, in 2018 the Cnpd developed a tool
to verify the level of maturity in terms of data protection: the "GDpr Compliance Support
tool” (CSt), available at https://cst.cnpd.lu. This tool saw continued interest in 2019 with approximately
2,000 organizations registered as users, which corresponds to an increase of more than 11% per
compared to the previous year.

several workshops aimed mainly at users of this tool were organized in 2018.
objectives of these events were:

• explain the GDPR compliance support model integrated into the tool (organization / processing / sub-

contracting) and how this model supports the controller's compliance exercise;

• interactivity with participants to answer questions about the practical use of the tool

and understanding the requirements to be evaluated.

 

1.3 PARTICIPATION IN THE WORK OF DIFFERENT COMMISSIONS AND NETWORKS

the National Commission also intervened periodically in the work of

• the Consultative Commission on Human Rights (CCDH),
• the Commission for the National Register of Natural Persons and
• Public Statistics Committee

in 2019, the Cnpd took part in the work of the “electoral cooperation network”. As part of the participation of
the CnpD to this network, the CnpD has sent guidelines concerning electoral campaigns in compliance
protection of personal data to political actors.

the national network of electoral cooperation, set up under the aegis of the Ministry of State, is the concretization
of the European package of measures to ensure free and fair elections launched in September 2018. This

Annual Report

23

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

European package includes, in particular, guidelines from the European Commission on the application of the
eu law on data protection in the electoral context as well as a recommendation of the
European Commission on electoral cooperation networks, online transparency, protection against
cybersecurity incidents and countering disinformation campaigns around parliamentary elections
European.

Finally, the CnpD again participated in the follow-up committee for the implementation of CnpD recommendations
concerning the central file of the Grand Ducal police (see point 1.5.a) of this report for more details.

 

1.4 DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDANCES

all guidance and guidelines can be downloaded from the Cnpd website: www.cnpd.lu.

Guidelines on the consequences of Brexit for international data transfers
the CnpD has published guidelines regarding the consequences of Brexit for international transfers
of data. These guidelines are intended to guide companies, public bodies and associations
Luxembourg companies who are required to transfer personal data to the United Kingdom and who
intend to continue such transfers after January 31, 2020.

the National Commission has also updated its thematic dossier devoted to international transfers of
personal data in relation to the General Data Protection Regulation.

the following scenarios are dealt with in the thematic dossier:
1. Transfers within the European Economic Area (European Union, Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland)
2. transfers to a country outside the European Economic Area with a level of protection

adequate

3. transfers to a country outside the European Economic Area that does not have a level of protection

adequate

4. international cooperation in police and judicial matters
5. the consequences of Brexit in terms of international data transfers

Election campaigns in compliance with data protection
the CnpD has published guidelines concerning “electoral campaigns while respecting the protection
personal data”.

in view of the European elections which took place on May 26, 2019 and in the light of the revelations on the
phenomena of disinformation and manipulation of the 2016 American elections and the British referendum

Annual Report

24

2019 cnpd

on Brexit in 2017, the CnpD wished to raise awareness among political actors of the risks linked in particular to the
collection and processing of voters' personal data for electoral purposes.

In its guidance, the CnpD also issued recommendations and set out good practices in terms of
digital electoral campaigns while respecting the protection of personal data.

The use of mobile video surveillance cameras intended to film public roads (of the “dashcam” type)
is it GDPR compliant?
the Cnpd regularly receives requests for information relating to CCTV cameras
mobiles installed in private cars, on bicycles, motorbikes, or fixed on the helmets of
cyclists, motorcyclists...

In its guidance on this subject, the CnpD wished to recall that it considers that the use of such cameras (sometimes
called "dashcams", not to be confused with devices installed in cars that help the driver

Annual Report

25

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

to park and which do not record the images) which film the public road and which are likely to capture
images of recognizable people is in practice very difficult to reconcile with the obligations arising from the
general data protection regulations.

 

1.5 Notice

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (e) of regulation n°2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on the protection of
data) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the
National Commission for Data Protection and the General Data Protection Regime, the CnpD
"advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

in 2019, the National Commission issued 16 opinions on bills or grand-ducal regulations. THE
opinions relating to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of security
are summarized in part 2.9.b). All notices can be viewed on the CnpD website at
the address https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/publications/rapports/index.html.

CHANGES IN THE NUMBER OF NOTICES

30

25

20

15

10

5

0

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Annual Report

26

2019 cnpd



a) register of beneficial owners

on 4 february 2019, the Cnpd notified the draft grand-ducal regulation implementing the law of 13 january
2019 establishing a register of beneficial owners.

the CnpD commented on the amendment concerning article 5 of the draft grand-ducal regulation, more specifically
the supporting documents that must accompany the application for registration. Following the amendment, the entities
registered will no longer be obliged to send a copy of the identity document of the persons concerned,
whose data would be kept by the register of beneficial owners, if the latter have a
identification number as provided for by the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of persons
physical. This amendment aims to address the remarks made by the CnpD in its opinion of 22 November
2018 relating to bill n°7217 (deliberation n°485/2018). however, an identity document must be provided for
data subjects who do not have such an identification number. the comment of the amendment
does not address the questions of the CnpD relating to the general need for obtaining and keeping
of this ID. According to the opinion of the CnpD, it should therefore be specified.

moreover, the Cnpd regretted that the authors of the draft grand-ducal regulation did not consider it appropriate to
modify other provisions of the text, in particular those concerning the personal data appearing
in the register (see sections II and IV. of the CnpD notice of 22 November 2018), the procedures for accessing the register,
including payment of fees, research arrangements, security measures and measures to
prevent misuse (see section V. of the CnpD opinion of 22 November 2018), as well as the retention period
data (see section VI. of the CnpD opinion of 22 November 2018).

 

b) inactive accounts, inactive safes and dormant insurance contracts

on february 1, 2019, the cnpd notified bill no. 7348 relating to inactive accounts, inactive safes
and dormant insurance contracts and amending: 1. the amended law of 23 December 1998 creating
a financial sector supervisory commission; and 2. the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the sector
insurances.

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill aims to establish in Luxembourg law a legal framework governing the
inactive accounts and safes and dormant insurance contracts. It establishes the obligation for
credit institutions, as defined in Article 1, point 8. of the draft law, and health insurance companies
maintain regular contact with their clients and contact them and, if necessary, undertake research
complementary in case of absence of manifestation on the part of the customers. in the event that the inactivity of the customer
continues until the time limit set in the draft law, insurance institutions and companies should record
customer assets with the Caisse de Consignation.

Annual Report

27

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

the draft law still regulates the missions of the actors responsible for ensuring the application of the draft law, namely
the Commission de surveillance du secteur financier (“the CSSF”), the Commissariat aux assurances (“the Caa”),
the administration of direct contributions (“the aCD”) and the consignment fund.

the National Commission limited its observations to the issues raised by the provisions of the draft
law under examination dealing with aspects related to respect for private life and the protection of personal data
staff. She addressed the issues of

• processing of personal data carried out by establishments and insurance companies;
• processing of personal data carried out by the Caisse de consignation, the CSSF, the Caa and the aCD;

and

• rights of data subjects.

Annual Report

28

2019 cnpd

In its opinion, the CnpD recommended in particular:
• to further specify the draft law with regard to the duration of data retention;
• provide more precisely in the body of the text of Article 32 for the content of the register kept by the Caisse

of consignment. ;

to be exchanged and

• provide a framework for the cooperation of public bodies in the draft law, indicating the data likely to be

• that the data controller provides clear and complete information on its website including

the information required under article 14 of the GDPR.

 

c) limitation of the scope of certain rights and obligations under the GDPR

on april 5, 2019, the CnpD notified the bill n°7373 concerning the limitation of the scope of certain rights
and obligations under the General Data Protection Regulation and relating to: 1. implementation
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation); 2. modification of
the amended law of 23 December 1998 creating a commission for the supervision of the financial sector; And
3. modification of the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector.

According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill intends to modify the amended law of 23 December 1998 establishing
of a Financial Sector Supervisory Commission and the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the financial sector.
insurance companies in order to enable the Financial Sector Supervisory Commission (hereinafter “the CSSF”) and the
Commissariat aux assurances (hereinafter “the Caa”) to avail itself of some of the limitations set out in Article
23, paragraph 2 of the GDPR in the performance of their tasks.

having already been consulted by the Ministry of Finance at the stage of the draft law in question, the Commission
National Commission limited itself to making observations on the following issues:

• the data processed by the CSSF (article 16-1 of the amended law of 23 December 1998, as inserted by the
bill) and by the Caa (article 13-1 of the amended law of 7 December 2015, as inserted by the bill
of law) ;

• processing for a purpose other than that for which the data was collected by the CSSF (Article 16-2 of the
amended law of 23 December 1998, as inserted by the bill) and by the Caa (article 13-2 of the amended law
of December 7, 2015, as inserted by the bill);

• the limitation of the right to information by the CSSF (articles 16-3 and 16-4 of the amended law of 23 December 1998,
as inserted by the bill) and by the Caa (articles 13-3 and 13-4 of the amended law of 7 December 2015,
as inserted by the bill);

Annual Report

29

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

• limitation of the right of access by the CSSF (article 16-5 of the amended law of 23 December 1998, as inserted
by the draft law) and by the Caa (article 13-5 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, as inserted by the draft
of law) ;

• limitation of the right to limitation of processing by the CSSF (Article 16-6 of the amended law of 23 December
1998, as inserted by the bill) and by the Caa (article 13-6 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, as
inserted by the bill);

• limitation of the right to object to processing by the CSSF (Article 16-7 of the amended law of 23 December
1998, as inserted by the bill) and by the Caa (article 13-7 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, as
inserted by the bill);

• guarantees (articles 16-8 and 16-9 of the amended law of 23 December 1998, as inserted by the draft
of law, and articles 13-8 and 13-9 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, as inserted by the draft
of law).

 

d) SECURE ELECTRONIC PLATFORM SERVING LEGAL AUTHORITIES AND THE SRE

on June 5, 2019, the CnpD notified draft law no. 7424 creating a common transmission platform
secure electronics and modification: 1. of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 2. of the amended law of July 5, 2016
reorganizing the State Intelligence Service.

It follows from the explanatory memorandum that the bill analyzed aims to set up a common and unique platform
secure electronic transmission system used by the judicial authorities as well as the Intelligence Service of
the state. According to the authors of the bill, the platform offers increased protection of the personal data of
persons subject to identification, surveillance or control measures.

However, the National Commission noted in its opinion that the draft law remains silent on the measures
technical and organizational measures to be put in place to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the
the sensitivity of the data transmitted via the platform, especially since the title of the bill announces the
creation of a “secure” electronic platform. In addition, she regretted that the draft regulation
ducal which is supposed to define the format and the methods of execution according to which the data collected are to be
transmit respectively to the judicial authorities and to the State Intelligence Service has not been annexed to the
law Project.

In its opinion, the CnpD provided comments and reflections on the scope, definitions,
common platform for secure electronic transmission and the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and
of article 7, paragraph 3, subparagraph 1, of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the reorganization of the
state intelligence.

Annual Report

30

2019 cnpd



e) NON-PROFIT ASSOCIATIONS AND FOUNDATIONS

on June 18, 2019, the National Commission took its own initiative to advise on draft law no. 6054 on associations
non-profit organizations and foundations, as well as proposed law no. 7392 amending the amended law of
April 21, 1928 on non-profit associations and foundations.

on a preliminary basis, the CnpD addressed in its opinion the context of its self-referral, the specific obligation to
file a list of members of an association and the general issue raised by the filing of the list
members.

the National Commission considered that it was reasonable to keep a list of the members of an association
for internal administrative management purposes and which can be consulted specifically by said members. she has also
questioned about the purpose of making this list accessible to third parties.

Annual Report

31

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

In addition, the National Commission noted in its opinion that there is currently a contradiction
between article 10 of the amended law of April 21, 1928 and respect for the privacy of members of an association,
as well as the protection of their personal data with regard to the GDPR. moreover, as shown
the complaints and requests for information received by the CnpD, the associations find themselves momentarily
in an uncertain legal situation, between the obligation to file the list of their members with the RCS,
resulting from a 90-year-old national law, on the one hand and compliance with the provisions of the GDPR, legislative standard
superior, on the other hand. in order to deal with this legal uncertainty and to ensure the conformity of the legal framework
Luxembourg to the GDPR, the CnpD therefore considered it necessary to quickly modify the article
10 of the amended law of April 21, 1928. indeed, the ECJ requires member states of the european union to put
in accordance with their existing national laws and regulations with European regulations,
judging that "the primacy and the direct effect of the provisions of Community law do not exempt
Member States of the obligation to eliminate from their internal legal order provisions which are incompatible with the
Community law; indeed, maintaining them creates an ambiguous factual situation, leaving the subjects of
right concerned in a state of uncertainty as to the possibilities reserved for them to appeal to the right
community."

 

f) CONTROL OF THE ACQUISITION AND HOLDING OF WEAPONS

on July 8, 2019, the CnpD gave its opinion on bill no. 7425 on: 1° transposition of the
Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive
91/477/EEC of the Council relating to the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2nd modification of
Criminal Code, and 3° repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials
explosive.

In its opinion, the CnpD addressed issues relating to the data protection aspects to be
personal nature, raised by articles 13 (Weapons file and processing of personal data
staff), 14 (medical certificate), 15 (armorer and arms dealer approval), 17 (employees and
collaborators of gunsmiths), 19 (arms register), 22 (General conditions concerning the granting of
authorizations to individuals) and 52 (Checks carried out by the customs and excise administration) of the project
of law.

the National Commission has noted that certain elements relating to the processing of data have not (or not
sufficiently) been clarified in the bill and listed in its developments the missing elements
concerning the processing carried out in the context of keeping the file referred to in Article 13, the specificities relating
to the processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health which must be observed by the person responsible
processing, clarifications to be made to the register of weapons kept by gunsmiths and to access
provided for by article 52 of the draft law for customs and excise officials.

Annual Report

32

2019 cnpd

the CnpD issued the following recommendations in particular:

• regarding the legal basis on which the processing is based, the National Commission suggested that the
passage following “the person concerned consents to the processing of his personal data” or
deleted;

• concerning the determination of the purposes of the processing, the CnpD considered that the purpose as drafted in the

bill was worded too vaguely and needed to be clarified;

• concerning the categories of personal data, the CnpD recommended enumerating which

data is collected and for what purposes,

• concerning the persons concerned, the National Commission has recommended that the legislator insert
provisions concerning the categories of persons concerned (purchaser, supplier, holder of a
authorization to possess weapons, etc.) for the various processing operations likely to be implemented in the
framework of the bill;

• concerning access to personal data, the CnpD recommended specifying that at the
Within the Ministry of Justice, access to data is limited to only agents who need to know it.
know within the framework of their function and to list the administrative authorities likely to have
access ;

• concerning the traceability of access, the CnpD recommended defining an access management policy, in order to
be able to identify from the outset the person or department, within each administration concerned, who would have
access to the computer interface made available by the CtIe, and to what specific data this person or
this service would have access.

 

g) macroprudential measures relating to residential real estate loans

on august 8, 2019, the Cnpd notified the government amendments to the bill relating to measures
macroprudential rules relating to residential real estate loans and amending the amended law of
April 5, 1993 relating to the financial sector, and the law of April 1, 2015 establishing a risk committee
system and amending the amended law of 23 December 1998 relating to the monetary status and the Central Bank
from Luxembourg.

The purpose of this bill is to supplement the legislative framework in terms of macroprudential tools to
available to the Luxembourg authorities through the introduction of macroprudential measures that can be used
specifically in the event of a threat to the financial stability of the national financial system arising from developments
in the real estate sector in Luxembourg.

In its opinion of 29 March 2018 (parliamentary document 7218/06), the National Commission had
already had the opportunity to comment on this bill and had limited itself to remarks relating to its

Annual Report

33

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

Article 2, in particular concerning the use of the term “aggregate information”, which it recommended to
replace with “aggregated and anonymized data” (if it is indeed anonymous or rendered data
anonymous).

 

h) reference directories for the identification of patients and service providers

on 18 october 2019, the CnpD published an additional notice relating to the draft grand-ducal regulation specifying
the procedures for managing the identification of persons and the categories of data contained in the directories
patient and provider identification repositories.

the CnpD had already issued, on 21 December 2018, a first opinion on the draft Grand-ducal regulation
specifying the procedures for managing the identification of persons and the categories of data contained in
the referential directories for the identification of patients and service providers in which it had underlined the importance
to give a legal basis to the identity monitoring system developed by the eSanté agency on the one hand, and to the
reference directories for the identification of patients and healthcare providers, on the other hand, by allowing
to guarantee the information security and quality objectives underlying the implementation of said tools
by the eSanté agency. the Council of State had already ruled on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation in an opinion
returned on November 27, 2018.

the National Commission noted in its opinion that some of its observations had been
taken into account by the authors of the amendments. it thus limited its comments to the amendments
of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation for which the authors had not followed the recommendations of
the CnpD.

 

i) TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTING THE SHARED CARE RECORD

on october 18, 2019, the Cnpd notified the amendments to the draft grand-ducal regulation specifying the terms
and conditions for setting up the shared care file.

As a reminder, the CnpD had issued, on April 5, 2018, a first opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the shared care file in which it formulated any
a series of observations on the provisions of the said draft having an impact on the respect for private life and the
protection of personal data.

the Council of State for its part had ruled on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation in an opinion delivered on 23
October 2018, in which it took up many of the criticisms made by the National Commission in its opinion
cited above on April 5, 2018.

Annual Report

34

2019 cnpd

the National Commission welcomed the fact that some of its remarks were taken into account by the
authors of the amendments.

In its 2019 opinion, it notably addressed issues relating to the principle of lawfulness of data processing.
personal data, responsibility for processing, procedures for opening and closing the
DSp, access to the DSp by healthcare professionals, data retention and data security.
platform.

 
 

j) initial qualification and continuous driver training

of certain road vehicles

on november 15, 2019, the Cnpd advised of draft law no. 7462 amending the amended law of 5 june
2009 relating to the initial qualification and continuous training of drivers of certain road vehicles

Annual Report

35

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

assigned to the transport of goods or passengers and amending the amended law of 27 July 1993 having
for purpose 1. economic development and diversification and 2. improvement of the general structure and
the regional balance of the economy.

the purpose of the bill is to transpose directive (eu) 2018/645 of the european parliament into national law and
of the Council of 18 April 2018 amending Directive 2003/59/EC relating to initial qualification and training
continuity of drivers of certain road vehicles assigned to the transport of goods or passengers
as well as Directive 2006/126/EC relating to driving licences. one of the novelties of the directive is the setting
in place between the Member States of an electronic network whose purpose is to allow the exchange, between the
members, information on training certificates issued or withdrawn to drivers of certain vehicles
road.

In its opinion, the CnpD limited itself to commenting on the new provisions introduced by the directive concerning
the establishment of an electronic network between the Member States, as described above. These provisions have
been transposed into national law in Article 4 of the draft law which inserts a new Article 6 bis entitled “Bank of
electronic data and data exchange” in the amended law of June 5, 2009.

 

K) assistance with the financing of rental guarantees

on November 25, 2019, the Cnpd gave its opinion on the government amendments to the draft
Grand-ducal regulation laying down the implementing measures relating to aid for the financing of rental guarantees
provided for by Articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning aid for
accommodation.

the CnpD limited its observations to questions dealing with aspects relating to data protection,
raised more specifically by Articles 2 and 3 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting out the measures
of execution relating to the assistance with the financing of rental guarantees provided for by articles 14quater-1 and
14quater-2 of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance. she did not speak
subject of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum criteria of health, hygiene, safety and
of habitability which the accommodation and rooms rented out or made available to
residential purposes.

on September 14, 2018, the National Commission had issued an opinion on both this bill and the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination (deliberation no. 450/2018, parliamentary document 7258/03).
In the 2019 opinion, it was limited to the changes introduced by the amendments to the draft regulations
Grand Ducal and referred for the remainder to his comments and suggestions made on the occasion of his previous
notice.

Annual Report

36

2019 cnpd

EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
IN WRITING

1200

1000

800

600

400

200

0

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

 

1.6 PROCESSING INQUIRIES

the National Commission received 708 written requests for information in 2019.

while remaining below the peak of requests in 2018, the number of requests remains high. whereas
2018, with the entry into application of the GDPR, a large number of requests were related to questions
more general relating to compliance with the new legislation, the requests have become more
specific, demonstrating greater awareness among stakeholders in 2019 about data protection.

about two-thirds of the requests came from businesses. the others came from citizens, administrations
public authorities and lawyers who also regularly contact the National Commission.

The themes that come up most often are:

• video surveillance (including private home video surveillance and workplace video surveillance);
• the data protection officer (his role, the conditions for being appointed, the procedure for declaring a

Dpo with the CnpD);

• the right of access (for data subjects: how do I exercise my right of access? and for those responsible
of processing: how and under what conditions to grant a request for access?) and the other rights of
data subjects (right to erasure of data, right of opposition, right of rectification, etc.).

Other recurring questions include:

• the territorial scope of the GDPR (for companies established outside the EU, including issues

related to the designation of a main or sole establishment and a main supervisory authority);

• the certification system for processing operations introduced by the GDPR (What is the scope of application of

the “GDpr-Carpa” certification?);

Annual Report

37

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

• the anonymization and pseudonymization of personal data (and their impact on the rules

applicable to data protection);

• the consent of the persons concerned (In which cases and under which conditions should it be requested?);
• cookies (What are the rules for web hosts using cookies?);
• data breaches (What constitutes a data breach and when should it be

notify the CnpD?);

• image rights (for non-profit associations, on social networks, in schools, etc.);
• drones (for those concerned: a drone flew over my property, what are my means
shares? for data controllers: under what conditions and where can I fly a drone and film
using this one?);

• questions related to the use of the CnpD's “GDpr Compliance Support tool”;
• the data retention period (How long do we have the right to keep the data at

personal character of our customers? or our employees?);

• prospecting / marketing (Under what conditions can we send newsletters or emails

• human resources (Under what conditions can a potential employer obtain information from

advertising to our customers?);

the former employer of a candidate?);

• subcontracting (What are the conditions relating to the use of a subcontractor? does the CnpD have

model subcontracts?);

• the use of the registration number (Under what conditions can we use the registration number of

our employees or our customers?);

• dashcams (is the use of dashcams permitted or prohibited in Luxembourg?).

2 COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL

 

2.1 HANDLING OF COMPLAINTS

If a request from an individual to a data controller has not been followed up, they may
contact the CnpD. the processing of complaints from data subjects is one of its
assignments.

in 2019, the CnpD received 625 complaints:

• 381 people called directly on the services of the CnpD when they felt that there had been a

violation of the law or interference with the exercise of their rights.

Annual Report

38

2019 cnpd

THE INTERNAL MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM (imi)

Since May 25, 2018, the IMI system has been the IT platform that guarantees the correct implementation
implementation of cooperation between the supervisory authorities as stipulated in the general regulation on
data protection (GDPR). the supervisory authorities of the Member States must cooperate
closely to ensure uniform protection of the rights of individuals with regard to the protection
data across the European Union.

today, more than ever, mutual assistance and the coordination of decision-making in
cross-border data protection cases are of utmost importance.

in addition, the European Data Protection Board issues opinions and takes decisions
binding when national data protection authorities have positions
different in a cross-border case.

This high degree of administrative cooperation across Europe now takes place through
through the IMI system.

Using the IMI system, supervisory authorities can in particular:

• determine which is the lead supervisory authority in a cross-border dispute;
• cooperate to reach a settlement of cross-border disputes;
• request and provide assistance to supervisory authorities in other Member States;
• organize joint operations involving the supervisory authorities of several States

members;

• consult the European Data Protection Board for an opinion or a decision

binding.

• in addition to complaints at national level, are added through the European system of cooperation 244
complaints where the CnpD was or is the presumed lead authority (IMI - market information system
interior).

compared to the previous year, this is an increase of 175 complaints, or 39%.

more than a quarter of complaints (26%) were motivated by the non-respect of the right of access by those responsible for the
treatment. The latter refused citizens access to their data, ignored their requests or did not
given enough information regarding the legal obligations to be complied with in terms of the right to information
and access.

requests to erase or rectify data constitute 21% of complaints received in
2019. These included, among other things, requests to close accounts with online services or
requests to erase personal data (email addresses, ratings, etc.) accessible on sites
Internet.

Annual Report

39

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

11% of complaints related to the right to object. These relate more particularly to the exercise of the
right of opposition in prospecting. the CnpD had to intervene when unsubscribe links to
prospecting in emails were not functional or when the data controller did not give
following objections.

In 8% of cases, complainants asked the CnpD to verify the legality of certain administrative practices
or commercial. They questioned in particular:

• provisions relating to the protection of data mentioned in the general conditions relating to

online businesses or services;

Annual Report

40

2019 cnpd

EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

REASONS FOR COMPLAINTS

Refusal to access data (26%)
Request for erasure or rectification not complied with (21%)
Opposition to prospecting or complaints against spam (11%)
Legality of certain administrative or commercial practices (8%)
Data privacy (7%)
Security measure (6%)
Monitoring (5%)
Transmission of data to third parties (5%)
Image rights (2%)
Right to information (1%)
Others (1%)

• the retention period of the data collected;
• requesting documents such as identity card or passport for identity verification purposes;
• the publication of personal data online (eg on a social network);
• unlawful or excessive collection of data;
• the lawfulness of processing personnel files;
• the creation of directories without the consent of the persons concerned;
• automated individual decisions.

the majority of inquiries related to surveillance in the workplace (5% of complaints) concerned the
video surveillance. Complainants have also contacted the CnpD when they believe that systems

Annual Report

41

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

geolocation had been used by their employer in an illicit manner (e.g. surveillance outside the
working hours).

the unauthorized transmission of data to third parties has also led to a number of complaints
(5%). This includes, for example, posting data (videos, photos, etc.) online without protecting them.
sufficiently or the use of data for purposes other than those for which they were collected
initially. Recurring complaints concern the sending of e-mails to people to whom they
were not intended or the sending of confidential emails but distributed collectively and visible to all
recipients (“CC” instead of “BCC”). the CnpD is also receiving more and more complaints
concerning unauthorized consultations in the national register of natural persons by agents of the
public sector.

 2.2 CHECKS PERFORMED

to ensure compliance with applicable data protection legislation, the National Commission
has investigative powers under which it can:

• obtain from the controller or the processor access to all the personal data which

are processed and to all the information necessary for the exercise of its missions;

• obtain access to all the premises of the controller and the processor, in particular to any installation

and any means of processing;

• carry out investigations in the form of data protection audits.

the Cnpd adopts a two-pronged approach with regard to the verification of the application of the rules on
Data protection. On the one hand there is the "reactive" aspect, largely driven by complaints, and on the other hand
the “proactive” component. the CnpD has the power to launch investigations on its own initiative. “Proactive” checks
are carried out with organizations that have been selected on the basis of a sample based on
risk criteria, such as sector of activity or size. These checks are then carried out either
unannounced (on-site investigations) or announced (investigations in the form of an audit on
data protection).

 

a) On-site inspection

the CnpD carries out proactive or reactive on-site inspections based on incidents, complaints, information
reported in the media or following a previous check. These checks are carried out on a scale
"individual" depending on the facts reported to the CnpD. They are therefore only intended for those responsible
treatment concerned by the facts reported.

Annual Report

42

2019 cnpd

the number of on-site investigations increased from 12 in 2018 to 33 in 2019. These investigations concerned in particular
video surveillance, geolocation, advertising and marketing.

 

b) DATA PROTECTION AUDITS

As part of the entry into force since May 25, 2018 of the GDPR, CnpD has adapted its strategy and implemented
place so-called "proactive" surveys. These surveys are carried out in the form of thematic audits covering
on GDPR obligations. These audits are carried out in several organizations and will allow the CnpD
to assess the level of compliance of organizations with the GDPR.

to carry out these audits, the CnpD relies in particular on the general guidance documents provided by the
European Data Protection Board (eDpB) such as
GDPR guidelines, recommendations and best practices.

Annual Report

43

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

Given the impact of the new role of the data protection officer and the importance of its integration into
company, and considering that eDpB guidelines on this subject have been available since December 2016,
the CnpD had decided to launch a thematic audit on the function of Data Protection Officer (DpD).
thus, 25 audit procedures were opened in September 2018.

the first half of 2019 was devoted to information gathering: around thirty on-site interviews were
conduct. the second half of the year was devoted to analyzing the findings for a position statement by the
from investigators and investigators.

the objective of this campaign is to verify the compliance of organizations with the GDPR obligations in terms of
appointment of the DpD, his missions and his functions.

the selection of the entities in which this audit is carried out was based on the following criteria:

• the size of the organization,
• the sensitivity of the data processed, and
•  the area of the activity.

It is planned to publish the results of the anonymized audits in the form of guidelines in order to serve as good
examples or examples to avoid to other data controllers or interested processors.

in parallel with the Dpo campaign, 9 reactive audits were opened. These are national complaints or complaints from the
European cooperation mechanism for which the CnpD has decided to open an audit. These complaints concern
various issues: the right of access, data security, the recruitment process or the
management of cookies, for example.

 

2.3 NOTIFICATION OF DATA BREACHES

Two types of data breaches must be notified to the CnpD:

• data breaches under the General Data Protection Regulation and
• data breaches in the electronic communications sector.

 

a) data breaches under GDPR

Since May 25, 2018, a breach of security resulting, accidentally or unlawfully, in the destruction,
the loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of personal data must be managed in accordance with the
requirements of Articles 33 and 34 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Annual Report

44

2019 cnpd

NUMBER OF REPORTED VIOLATIONS (PER MONTH)

50

40

30

20

10

0

May 2019

June 2019

July 2019

August 2019

Sep 2019

Oct. 2019

Nov. 2019

Dec. 2019

controllers must notify personal data breaches to the CnpD within
a period of 72 hours after becoming aware of it if the violation in question is likely to cause a
risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

the following statistics are based on personal data breaches that have been notified to
the CnpD. they do not reflect the complete number of security incidents related to personal data
staff. data controllers are required to maintain documentation of all incidents of
security involving personal data.

in 2019, 354 data breaches were notified to the Cnpd.

in total, since the GDPR came into force on May 25, 2018, the CNPd has received 526 data breaches. That
corresponds to almost 28 data breach notifications per month.

Annual Report

45

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

CAUSES OF VIOLATIONS

Internal non-malicious act (63%)
Malicious internal act (6%)
External non-malicious act (4%)
Malevolent external act (25%)
Others (2%)

the main cause of personal data breach remains human error (internal act not
malicious).

most human errors occur:

• when an existing procedure is not followed;
• when an existing security rule is circumvented: this type of case has been the subject of incidents with consequences

important;

• when staff are not sufficiently aware of the rules of confidentiality to be applied;
• following a careless error: depending on the context, the implementation of a control mechanism before

transmission of data (e.g. 4-eye principle) would have avoided this type of incident.

Malicious external acts account for more than a quarter of reported breaches. This type of incident
often has a greater impact on those involved. In many cases, these acts target

Annual Report

46

2019 cnpd

NATURE OF INCIDENTS

Personal data
sent to the wrong recipient (34%)
Hacking, hacking (15%)
Disclosure of personal data
from the wrong person (12%)
Unintentional posting (11%)
Lost or stolen device (9%)

Phishing, Phishing (6%)
Technical issue (5%)
Lost, stolen papers, unsecured location (4%)
Mail lost, opened (2%)
Malware, malicious software (2%)

accessing or obtaining data that allows financial transactions to be carried out without the knowledge of
data subjects (e.g. interception of bank payment card data, phishing to obtain information
connections to a payment service, identity theft to carry out a financial transaction, etc.).

malicious internal acts occurred mainly during the departure, voluntary or not, of employees
of an organization: this situation leads people to copy data in order to potentially use it
in their new situation.

Similarly, situations of cessation of activity / merger / takeover of companies are periods of risk for companies.
unauthorized exfiltration of data.

the other cases are related to technical bugs which often result in the disclosure of data to
personal nature to unauthorized third parties (e.g. setting up or updating a new online service, case
unplanned use of a service, etc.).

Annual Report

47

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

NATURE OF INCIDENTS
NATURE OF IMPACT

Confidentiality (90%)
Availability (7%)
Integrity (3%)

almost all data breaches have an impact related to the loss of data confidentiality
concerned.

more than half of security incidents are detected no later than 5 days after their occurrence. Nevertheless,
the CnpD found that almost 10% of personal data breaches are only detected at
minimum one month after having occurred: these are more particularly incidents related to continuous violations
the organisation's security policy (e.g. management personnel send professional data
on their personal email to work from home and the personal email is hacked), of data used
by employees when leaving an organization and also data theft linked to unauthorized hacking
detected.

the CnpD also draws the attention of data controllers to the fact that a certain number of acts of
hacking and phishing are targeted at the management staff of an organization and their entourage (ex:
management assistant/secretary). These malicious acts are often aimed at obtaining information
enabling fraudulent financial transactions.

Annual Report

48

2019 cnpd

NUMBER OF PEOPLE POTENTIALLY
IMPACTED BY INCIDENT

200

150

100

50

0

CN

1

2 to 5

6 to 10

11 to 50

51 to 100

101 to 1000

(nC = number of
people affected
by the violation
not known - that
may be the case when
of an exfiltration
of data from
of a system whose
the logging of
access to data at
personal character
is poorly adapted or
non-existent)

NUMBER OF DAYS BETWEEN THE START OF THE INCIDENT
AND INCIDENT DETECTION

200

150

100

50

0

CN

1

2 to 5 days

6 to 10 days

11 to 30 days

31 to 60 days

More than 60 days

(nC = Start date
of the incident no
known)

Annual Report

49

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

Points of attention identified:
1. the Cnpd notes that many organizations have procedures in place to manage and act
when a personal data incident occurs. however, many organizations
are less mature when it comes to detecting security incidents.

2. the CnpD particularly wishes to draw the attention of organizations to what they must not
communicate, in the notifications, the personal data concerned by the breach and the
personal information of the people involved in the data breaches.

3. as a reminder, when an organization sends a violation notification to the CnpD, the latter acknowledges receipt
of notification. the CnpD will carry out further communication with the organization which notifies only
in the event of a request for additional information in connection with the notification. Under the principle
of responsibility (“accountability”), the CnpD intervenes only in the management of the violation if it
considers it necessary.

 

b) DATA BREACHES IN THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR

In accordance with regulation (eu) no. 611/2013 of the European Commission of June 24, 2013, suppliers
electronic communications services available to the public, such as fixed telephone companies/
mobile or Internet access providers, must notify the CnpD within 24 hours of the observation
of a breach of security and confidentiality of personal data and, in addition, inform their
subscribers in the event that the incident observed is likely to adversely affect the level of protection of their life
privacy and data concerning them.

in order to make it easier for providers of electronic communications services, the Commission
Nationale has a security breach notification form available on its website. This
form contains all the relevant questions that suppliers will have to answer in such a
situation.

in 2019, no data breaches in the electronic communications sector were reported to the
CnpD.

 

2.4 APPOINTMENT OF DATA PROTECTION OFFICERS

Since the entry into force of the GDPR, data controllers and processors must
communicate to the CnpD the contact details of the data protection officer (DpD) they have, if any,
appointed.

Annual Report

50

2019 cnpd

in 2019, 272 controllers communicated the contact details of their DpD to the CnpD. Since the 25
May 2018, 1,090 data controllers took this step.

in total, 731 natural or legal persons were declared to the CnpD, including 238 in 2019.

as such, the CnpD has put a communication form online, as well as a dedicated site that answers questions
frequently asked.

the appointment of a DpD is mandatory in three cases:

• the processing is carried out by a public authority or a public body, with the exception of courts acting

in the exercise of their judicial function;

• the core activities of the controller or processor consist of processing operations
which, due to their nature, their scope and/or their purposes, require regular and systematic monitoring on a large scale
scale of persons concerned; Or

• the core activities of the controller or processor consist of large-scale processing
scale of special categories of data referred to in Article 9 or of personal data relating
criminal convictions and offenses referred to in Article 10.

Unless it is clear that an organization is not required to appoint a DfD, it is recommended to document
the internal analysis carried out to determine whether or not a DfD should be appointed.

 
 

2.5 PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION AS PART OF AN IMPACT ASSESSMENT

CONCERNING DATA PROTECTION

If an organization has identified processing of personal data likely to generate high risks
for the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, it must carry out, for each of these processing operations, an analysis
impact assessment relating to data protection (Data protection Impact assessment or DpIa).

the impact analysis relating to data protection allows:

• to develop a processing of personal data or a product that respects privacy,
• to assess the impact on the privacy of the persons concerned,
• to demonstrate that the fundamental principles of the regulation are respected.

the challenge is to assess and manage the risks to the rights and freedoms of the people concerned in order to build
GDPR-compliant and privacy-friendly processing.

Annual Report

51

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

In accordance with article 35.4 of the GDPR, the CnpD has drawn up a list of types of processing operations for
which it considers that a data protection impact assessment is mandatory in all cases. He
These are the following types of operations:

1. processing operations relating to genetic data as defined in Article 4 (13) of the
rGpD, in combination with at least one other criterion listed in the eDpB guidelines
(European Data Protection Board), with the exception of healthcare professionals who provide
health ;

2. processing operations which include biometric data as defined in Article 4 (14) of the
GDPR for the purpose of identifying data subjects in combination with at least one other criterion of the
eDpB guidelines;

3. processing operations involving the combination, matching or comparison of
personal data collected from processing operations with different purposes
(from the same or different controllers) - provided that they produce effects
with respect to the natural person or have a significant and similar effect on the person
physical ;

4. processing operations which consist of or which include a regular and systematic monitoring of
activities of employees - provided that they can produce legal effects with respect to employees or
affect them so significantly;

5. file processing operations likely to contain personal data of all
of the national population, provided that such a DpIa has not already been carried out as part of an analysis
general impact in the context of the adoption of this legal basis;

6. processing operations for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes
meaning of articles 63 to 65 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the
data protection and the general data protection regime;

7. processing operations which consist of systematic monitoring of the location of persons

physical;

8. processing operations based on the indirect collection of personal data in conjunction
with at least one other criterion from the eDpB guidelines when it is not possible / not feasible to guarantee
the right to information.

Annual Report

52

2019 cnpd

It should be emphasized that the current list is not an exhaustive list of all types of processing operation
requiring the performance of a DpIa. thus the absence of a type of processing operation on this list does not mean
not necessarily that a DpIa is not required. the list is limited to processing activities that will require
always carrying out a DpIa. for processing activities not included in this list, the controllers
of the data processing should be based on article 35 (1) of the rGpD and on the guidelines Wp248 of the
article 29 working group to assess the need for a DpIa.

If, following the analysis of the risks to the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned by the DpIa, there results a (or
several) residual risk(s) (in the event that the controller does not take measures to
mitigate it), he must consult the CnpD, which will give an opinion on the planned processing and the associated risks.

In this case the processing cannot be implemented before receipt of the opinion of the CnpD, and if necessary,
the implementation of additional measures.

in 2019, the Cnpd did not receive any request for prior consultation that met the criteria as stipulated in
the rGpD.

 

2.6 CERTIFICATIONS

the CnpD continued its work started the previous year to propose, set up and manage the activities
certification related to the use of voluntary compliance instruments as proposed in the GDPR. These
instruments are intended to enable data controllers to demonstrate that their processing operations
comply with the regulations.

the framework for the practical application of these new tools is developed in consultation with the other authorities of
controls at the level of the eDpB to ensure consistency but also, at the national level, in collaboration
with the established private sector.

thus the CnpD continued its work, in collaboration with auditing companies, on the development of a
certification reference system based on the ISae international conformity assessment framework (“International Standard

Annual Report

53

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

on commitment insurance”). she also contributed as lead-rapporteur to the European Committee for
Data protection, the establishment of procedures for the adoption of accreditation criteria for organizations
of certification, the adoption of certification criteria and the adoption of a European label for certification.

 

2.7 INTERNATIONAL TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA

personal data can circulate freely from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg within
the european economic area, as long as the general principles of the GDPR are respected.

Member States apply the same level of protection when processing personal data
staff. a transfer within the European Economic Area is governed in the same way as a transfer to the
Luxembourg and must therefore comply with the general principles of the GDPR (respect in particular for the principle of
lawfulness, compatibility of the communication with the original processing, information of the persons concerned).

 
 

a) transfers to a country outside the european economic area with

an adequate level of protection

any data controller who wishes to export personal data outside the space
European economy must first find out about the adequate level of protection in the destination country. In effect,
when the third country is formally considered as offering an adequate level of protection by the Commission
European (examples: Switzerland, Japan, Argentina, Canada in some cases, or the United States of America
in certain cases (see below)), the transfer can be made as if it were a transfer within
the European economic area.

The “Eu-us Privacy shield framework”
the “eu-u.S. privacy Shield Framework”, or sphere of the European Union Data Protection Shield –
United States of America, is a set of principles for the protection of personal data to which the
U.S.-based businesses are free to join.

On the basis of the implementing decision of the European Commission (eu) 2016/1250, certain companies established
in the European Economic Area transferred the personal data they process to the
U.S. companies on the “eu-u.S. privacy Shield Framework", in the same way as
transfers to countries recognized as “adequate” by the European Commission.

As indicated in the foreword, this implementing decision was invalidated in July 2020 by the Court of Justice
of the European Union (CJEU) in the case Data protection Commissioner against Facebook Ireland and Maximillian
Schrems (Schrems II). In its ruling, the Court found that the "Privacy Shield" did not ensure a level of

Annual Report

54

2019 cnpd

protection substantially equivalent to that guaranteed by the GDPR and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. by
Consequently, these companies can no longer legitimize their transfers to the United States of America on the
“eu-u.S. Privacy Shield Framework”, but will have to carry out the same analysis as for any other country outside
from the European Economic Area that does not have an adequate level of protection (see point b below).

 
 

b) transfers to a country outside the european economic area

lacking an adequate level of protection

for countries that are not members of the european economic area (european union, liechtenstein, norway and
Iceland) which have not been recognized as offering an adequate level of protection with regard to the protection of
given by the European Commission, there are various possibilities for data transfer.

In such a case, the CnpD recommends adopting, like its European counterparts, a step-by-step approach.
steps based on best practice and to consider providing adequate safeguards. THE
data exporters should therefore first try to find possibilities to carry out the transfer
using appropriate safeguards (contractual clauses, Binding Corporate Rules (BCr), codes of
conduct, certification mechanisms or specific safeguards for the transfer between authorities or bodies
public), if necessary by using additional guarantees in order to comply with the “Schrems
II” of the Court of Justice of the European Union (see foreword and point a above), and not to resort to
derogations only in the absence of such safeguards.

Binding corporate rules
Binding corporate rules (BCr) help to ensure a
sufficient level of protection for data transferred within a group of companies both within and outside
outside the European Economic Area. This appropriate guarantee lends itself especially to groups of companies
multinationals implementing a large number of international data transfers.

the BCr constitute a “charter for the protection of personal data” drawn up by a group of companies
which defines its policy on the transfer of personal data. This charter must be binding
and respected by all group entities, regardless of their country of establishment, as well as by all their
employees. in addition, it must confer on the persons concerned (customers, suppliers and/or employees) rights
enforceable with regard to the processing of their personal data.

in 2019, the National Commission handled files concerning binding corporate rules, including
six as principal regulator (i.e. for multinational enterprises whose principal establishment
in the european union is located in luxembourg), two as a secondary authority (i.e. in support of
principal supervisory authority) and 24 as the relevant authority.

Annual Report

55

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

 

c) suitability decision with japan

the CnpD contributes to the activities of the European Data Protection Board (eDpB). in this regard, she was
involved in the assessment of the European Commission's adequacy decision with Japan. during
several months, it examined the work carried out by the latter and assessed the impact of the free movement of
personal data between the European Union and Japan on the guarantees and the degree of protection
conferred by the two economies on European citizens. on 5 december 2018, the eDpB adopted its opinion on
the adequacy decision revealing the importance of this adequacy decision since it is the first rendered
under the GDPR.

as a reminder, the purpose of the adequacy decision with Japan is to establish a set of rules that allow
reduce some differences between the two data protection systems and safeguards when accessing the
data of European citizens by the Japanese public authorities in the context of criminal proceedings and
national security of the country, as well as a mechanism for handling complaints from European citizens concerning
access to their data by the Japanese public authorities.

the adequacy decision was adopted by the european parliament on 13 december 2018 and by the commission
European Union on January 23, 2019.

 

2.8 CORRECTIVE MEASURES AND PENALTIES

in the event of processing contrary to the regulations in force, the CnpD has the power to adopt measures
corrective (e.g. warning, reminder, temporary or definitive limitation or prohibition of processing,
etc.) and impose administrative fines.

breaches by the controller of the GDPR may be subject to fines of up to
twenty million euros or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, the amount
higher being retained. the GDPR requires sanctions to be “effective, proportionate and dissuasive” – this
implies that the size of the company, the seriousness of the facts, the extent of the violation, the damage, the number of
people affected, as well as the level of risk and the means of a company to achieve compliance
are taken into account.

between May 25, 2018 and December 31, 2019, 140 national complaints led to the adoption of measures
correctors. These are cases where the CnpD has ordered the controller to put in place measures
to comply with the GDPR (e.g. granting a request for access, erasure, opposition, modification
information notices in order to comply with the requirements of articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR, implementation of
additional security measures, etc.). in addition to complaints lodged at national level, there are also

Annual Report

56

2019 cnpd

through the European cooperation system another 161 complaints which have been closed with measures
correctors.

the CnpD considers that an administrative fine can only be imposed by the National Commission sitting
in a restricted decision-making body on the outcome of the investigation in accordance with article 41 of the law of August 1, 2018
on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
Data protection.

Indeed, depending on the relevance of a case, the CnpD may open an investigation in accordance with article 37
of the aforementioned law of August 1, 2018. This involves a procedure with two consecutive processes (the process
inquiry led by one of the commissioners as head of inquiry and a decision-making process by the Commission
national committee sitting in restricted formation, i.e. composed of the three other commissioners).

no investigation file examined by the Restricted Committee in 2019 presented violations whose seriousness
would have justified the imposition of an administrative fine. therefore, no administrative fine was
imposed by the CnpD since the entry into force of the law of August 1, 2018.

However, major investigations and those requiring collaboration with one or more supervisory authorities
other countries require complex assessments both legal and technical which, of course, take
more time to be concluded.

At the end of 2019, several investigation files of this type were under review and will be transferred to the college
commissioners sitting in restricted formation for decision-making in accordance with the internal rules and regulations
investigation regulations in force.

 
 

2.9 PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA IN CRIMINAL MATTERS
 

AS WELL AS IN MATTER OF NATIONAL SECURITY

the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the
general data protection regime repealed the amended law of 2 August 2002, which also resulted in
the abolition of the “article 17” supervisory authority. with the entry into force of the new law, the powers
and missions of the former “article 17” supervisory authority were conferred on the Cnpd with effect from 20 august
2018. this section of the CnpD’s activity report therefore covers the period from 20 August 2018 to
December 31, 2019.

the CnpD has therefore also become competent to control the processing of data carried out by the authorities
repressive or national security authorities, such as the Grand Ducal police, the Intelligence Service of

Annual Report

57

2019 cnpd

the State, the National Security Authority, the Customs Administration, etc. in application of the law of August 1, 2018
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in
criminal matters and national security.

Article 10 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime also provides that the annual report of the CNPD
must include a list of the types of violations notified and the types of penalties imposed under the law of the
August 1, 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.

58

3ANNUAL REPORT2019 CNPDTHE ACTIVITIES IN 2019

a) requests for information

the CnpD handled 56 written and oral requests for information on data processing in the
repressive domain.

Following the public debates around the "Central file" operated by the Grand Ducal police, many citizens
wanted to exercise their right of access and contacted the CnpD to find out if the police were processing data concerning them
in this file. However, as the right of access to data cannot be exercised with the CnpD, but must
exercise directly with the data controller, the CnpD dealt with during the summer/autumn 2019 34
requests on this subject and invited citizens to make their requests for access directly to the police.
it has also published guidance on this subject on its website to inform and guide citizens. others
requests of this kind also concerned other authorities such as the customs and excise administration
or the State Intelligence Service.

Without claiming to be exhaustive, the CnpD was also asked to answer questions on criminal matters
or public safety, for example around the following themes:

• Interpretation of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, in particular
its scope, the definition of law enforcement authorities and the interaction with the provisions of the
rGpD;

• CCTV in public and private places;
• transmission of personal data by private entities to national law enforcement authorities and

foreign.

 

b) NOTICE

the CnpD has adopted 5 opinions relating to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in
matter of national security.

central file of the Grand Ducal Police with regard to data protection legislation
on 13 september 2019, the cnpd adopted an opinion on the central file of the grand-ducal police.

with regard to the advisory mission assigned to it, the CnpD was requested by the Minister of Security
interior to issue an opinion on the central file of the Grand Ducal police with regard to the legislation in
matters of data protection.

Annual Report

59

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

If the field of police files is little known and raises real concerns among citizens about the respect
civil liberties and the protection of their personal data, the files nevertheless constitute
essential tools for the execution of the missions of the police forces.

in order to best respond to the request for an opinion submitted to it, the CnpD took into account the concerns
citizens, the many parliamentary questions from MPs and the answers to these questions
by the ministers concerned. the CnpD has also contacted the data protection authorities of other states
members so that they inform it about the legal framework in terms of data protection governing
police files in their countries. in preparation for its opinion, the CnpD met on several occasions
with the Grand Ducal Police, the General Inspectorate of Police and the Ministry of Internal Security, with the aim
deepen their understanding of the management and use made of the central file.

the first part of the opinion is devoted to the legal framework of the central file conferred by the law of 1 August
2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
in criminal matters as well as in matters of internal security. the principles applicable to the processing of personal data
personal character carried out via the central file are analyzed there as well as the rights of the persons concerned by
the processing of their data through the central file, then the obligations of the controller with regard to
the management and use of said file. a second part of the opinion concerns the quality of the legal framework governing the
core file. the quality is assessed with regard to compliance with the general principles relating to data processing
of a personal nature in criminal matters and then with regard to the legal framework of other Member States, namely France,
Belgium and Germany.

In its conclusion, the CnpD considers that an improvement in the law governing the matter is appropriate. She
therefore proposes to the legislator to specify the national legislation in this respect under Article 1.3 of the so-called Directive
"police-justice" and in the light of the case law of the High European Courts. in addition, the CnpD suggests
that the law on the police should be supplemented by provisions specifying the principle and the specific purposes of
files operated by the Grand-Ducal police for the purposes of carrying out its missions, retention periods
of the data or the criteria applicable to determine the retention periods of the data, as well as the
other essential aspects of data processing carried out by the Grand Ducal police. Ultimately, she asserts that the
legislative measures to be adopted should specify the general legislative framework laid down by the transposition law with regard to the
essential aspects of data processing, but also provide for the possibility of adopting regulations
to settle the less essential modalities, in the light of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court.

video surveillance of public spaces and places for public security purposes
in view of the advisory mission assigned to it, but also of the general trend towards strengthening
surveillance of citizens in order to alleviate insecurity and in the face of public concerns on this subject, the
National Commission issued a detailed opinion dated March 15, 2019 on the creation and operation

Annual Report

60

2019 cnpd

by the Grand-Ducal police of a police video surveillance system (hereinafter referred to as "VISupol") within
targeted security zones in luxembourg-city.

self-referral by the CnpD took place within the framework of the repeal of the legal basis of VISupol following the entry
pursuant to the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime.

the recent modifications of the legal framework being recalled, the CnpD has adopted a global approach with regard to
the use of video surveillance devices for police purposes, namely, prevention, research and
finding of violations. In its opinion, it thus returned to the characteristics and challenges of the
video surveillance for police purposes in the public space (I), reflection which aims to highlight
the importance of the legal framework for the surveillance and control of public space (II).

According to the CnpD, the study of the characteristics and challenges of video surveillance for police purposes in space
public, the surveillance, the social control which emanate from it and the impact of such mechanisms on fundamental rights
and the freedoms granted to individuals, are all reasons that justify the importance of the legal framework of
devices such as VISupol.

in fact, the Cnpd found that like any video surveillance device, VISupol is an instrument that generates
permanent monitoring and control of individuals. therefore, this police surveillance device
interferes with the right to privacy and data protection. It is also likely
hinder the right to non-discrimination and limit the free movement of people within the public space.
nevertheless, the National Commission recalled that such limitations are possible provided that they are
legally provided for. the existence of such an imperative is explained in particular by the fact that the persons whose
fundamental rights and freedoms are limited must have sufficient safeguards to protect themselves
effectively against the risk of abuse against them.

the legal basis is also useful to legislators and judges in assessing the necessity and character
proportionate to the measure, which are among other conditions that the interferences must fulfil. by
Consequently, it ensures that the installation and use of video surveillance for police purposes
responds to objective criteria such as the fight against delinquency and not subjective criteria such as the feeling of insecurity
felt by individuals.

thus, taking into account the repeal of the law of 2002 and the Grand-Ducal regulations on which the device
VISupol is based on the general terms of the law relating to the missions of the Grand Ducal police,
the CnpD suggested in its opinion that the legal provisions of the latter be further clarified in order to
to include VISupol in its scope.

Annual Report

61

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

however, the Cnpd wondered whether it would not be more appropriate for luxembourg to adopt a specific law
governing the installation and operation of video surveillance devices in public spaces for police purposes
as do France, Belgium and Germany.

the CnpD clarified that its opinion is not limited to the VISupol system of the Grand-Ducal police which, for the moment,
is only operated on the territory of the City of Luxembourg. Indeed, to the extent that those responsible for
some municipalities have also expressed their intention to want to monitor public spaces and places located on
their municipal territories, the opinion has a general scope which is intended to cover any video surveillance device,
having a public security purpose, regardless of whether it is operated at national level by the Grand Ducal police
or at the local level by municipalities.

thus, whatever the choice of legal basis, this will have the effect of highlighting that within a
democracy such as Luxembourg, one of the founding countries of the European Union and protectors of its values,
the Grand-Ducal police or the municipalities, carry out their surveillance missions resulting from an interaction
complex between legal, organizational, professional, situational and interactional rules.

use of video surveillance by municipalities
on May 10, 2019, the CnpD issued a detailed opinion on the use of video surveillance by municipalities.
Following the entry into force of the new data protection legislation, the CnpD has published in
August 2018 CCTV Guidelines. Without claiming to be exhaustive,
the CnpD recalled certain principles and obligations applicable to video surveillance. by
Consequently, the CnpD advises in its opinion to the municipalities to refer to these guidelines in order to have a
overview of the applicable rules.

in order to understand the issues raised by the installation and operation of video surveillance devices within
municipalities and the issues that arise from them, the CnpD made a distinction in its opinion between the places
monitored on the one hand, and the purposes pursued by the data controller when using said devices
on the other hand. These issues and problems were highlighted through three examples in its opinion.

in conclusion, the CnpD reiterated its recommendation to the government to introduce a specific legislative framework
in the matter, which could integrate and clarify the interactions and respective competences of the mayors
and the Grand Ducal Police.

National Security Authority
on december 17, 2019, the cnpd notified draft law no. 6961 on 1. the creation of the national authority for
safety (hereafter: “anS”) and 2. amendment 1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of
documents and security clearances; 2) of the Penal Code.

Annual Report

62

2019 cnpd

between 2013 and 2018 the CnpD had already advised of draft laws and draft grand-ducal regulations in relation
with the theme.

In the 2019 opinion, the CnpD addressed the following points in particular: direct access by the anS, via a
computer system, to the “research” part of the general police database,
the competence of the CnpD to monitor the access provided for in paragraph (1) of article 28 of the amended law
of 15 June 2004, the retention period for data relating to the security investigation as well as the
assessment criteria that anS takes into account with regard to guarantees of discretion, loyalty, reliability and
integrity.

Police and operation of Luxembourg airport
on December 17, 2019, the CnpD adopted its opinion on bill no. 7475 amending the amended law
of 26 July 2002 on the police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a
new terminal; 2. the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and the conditions
access to Luxembourg airport.

 

c) complaints

the Cnpd received 10 criminal and national security complaints in cases where those responsible
of treatment have not complied, have not responded at all or have responded insufficiently to requests
access to citizen data.

 

d) notification of data breaches

controllers must notify personal data breaches to the CnpD within
a period of 72 hours after becoming aware of it if the violation in question is likely to cause a
risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

between August 20, 2018 (entry into force of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission
National Data Protection and General Data Protection Regime) and 31 December
2019, the CnpD received two data breach notifications concerning data processing at
personal character in criminal matters, as well as in matters of national security.

 

e) CHECKS PROVIDED FOR BY SPECIFIC LEGAL PROVISIONS

in criminal matters and national security, certain national and European legislative provisions provide for
that the CnpD carry out specific and regular checks/audits:

Annual Report

63

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

- At the level of national texts:
• law of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data and information in police matters;
• law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police;
• law of 18 July 2018 on the General Police Inspectorate;

In this context, and on the basis of article 43 of the law of July 18, 2018 on the grand-ducal police, the CnpD
in 2019 began an audit of access to certain state files by members of the police with the quality
judicial police officer or administrative police officer. This audit, currently still in progress,
covers the following aspects in particular: allocation of access, compliance with the “need to know, need to do” principle,
availability of logs and reasons for consultations.

- At the level of European texts:
the CnpD must also carry out data protection audits every four years at the level of the
national parts of the European information systems SIS II and VIS as well as regular reviews of the logs of
these information systems, on the basis of the following European legislative texts:

• REGULATION (EC) no 767/2008 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF JULY 9, 2008 on the
Visa Information System (VIS) and the exchange of data between Member States on short-term visas
stay (VIS regulation);

• COUNCIL DECISION 2007/533/JAI of 12 June 2007 on the establishment, operation and use of the

second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II).

 

f) meetings

the CnpD had a meeting with the Grand-Ducal police regarding the implementation of the “Law of 1 August 2018
on the processing of Passenger Name Record data in the context of the prevention and repression of
terrorism and serious crime”.

she took part in two interdepartmental meetings as part of the SIS recast/Interoperability working group
focusing on the analysis of three eu regulations 2018/1860 – 2018/1861 – 2018/1862 concerning the use
of the Schengen Information System (SIS), as well as on two EU regulations 2019/817 – 2019/818 concerning
interoperability.

several meetings between the State Intelligence Service and the CnpD also took place.

finally, in the context of its opinion on the “Central file” of the grand-ducal police, the CnpD met on several
occasions with the Grand Ducal police, the General Police Inspectorate and the Ministry of Internal Security.

Annual Report

64

2019 cnpd



g) European cooperation

Cooperation at EDPb level
the CnpD took part in the work of the European Data Protection Board (CepD or “eDpB” in English)
in criminal matters and in matters of national security. among the topics covered were:

• preparation for Brexit, including the impact on borders, the free movement and exchange of data between the
law enforcement agencies of the member states and the united kingdom, including in particular the pnr data known as “data
passengers” forwarded by European air carriers to UK law enforcement in the event of
its exit from the European Union.

• the Schrems II case: the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as CJEU) wished to hear the

President of the eDpB in order to enlighten her as to the degree of data protection provided by the United States.

Cooperation with the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPs)
European legislation provides that the supervisory authorities of the Member States jointly control and supervise
with the European Data Protection Supervisor (eDpS), European information systems, namely
the Schengen Information System II (SISII), the europol information system and the information system
Customs, operated by the competent law enforcement authorities.

In this context, the CnpD participated in the bi-annual meetings of the following joint supervisory authorities:

• SIS II Control Coordination Group
• Europol Cooperation Committee
• European Customs Information System Control Coordination Group

 

2.10 RETENTION OF TRAFFIC AND LOCATION DATA

European Directive 2006/24/EC on data retention had been transposed at national level by the law of
July 24, 2010 amending the law of May 30, 2005 on the protection of privacy in the communications sector
electronics. the objective of this directive was to keep for a certain period of time the data processed by the
telecommunications operators and Internet access providers for the purposes of research,
detecting and prosecuting offences. one of the major challenges of this directive was to maintain the balance between,
on the one hand, access to data processed by electronic communications providers in the context of the
fight against terrorism and serious crime, and on the other hand, the protection of the privacy of citizens.

However, the directive was annulled by the Court of Justice of the European Union on April 8, 2014 by the judgment
“Digital rights Ireland”. however, the national transposition laws have not been amended accordingly

Annual Report

65

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

and the National Commission has not received any instructions in this context from its supervisory Ministry. She keeps
to send to it annually with a view to their continuation at the European Commission of statistics on the
retention of data under articles 5 and 9. to this end, service providers or operators retain
and provide the National Commission, at its request, with information including in particular:

• the cases in which information has been transmitted to the competent authorities in accordance with the

applicable national legislation,

• the period of time elapsed between the date from which the data was stored and the date on which the

competent authorities have requested their transmission,

• cases in which data requests could not be fulfilled.

in 2019, the competent authorities made 2,601 requests to operators. This figure has fallen from
to 2018 when 4,766 requests were made. Of the 2,601 requests, 493 requests could not be
be satisfied.

3 WORKING AT THE INTERNATIONAL LEVEL

the activity of the National Commission was also marked by strong participation in European work,
dominated by complex and technical issues. This commitment was necessary to understand the subject
in all its scope and complexity.

the National Commission, represented by one or more of its members, took part in various
working groups at European and international level. These included:

• the European Data Protection Board (eDpB or european Data Protection Board) which brings together

all European authorities as well as the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDP);

• the “Berlin Group”, dedicated to data protection in the electronic communications sector;
• the conference of European data protection commissioners in tbilisi;
• the international conference of data protection and privacy commissioners in tirana;
• the European seminar “Case Handling Workshop” in Brussels.

 

3.1 THE EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION BOARD

the European Data Protection Board (eDpB – european Data Protection Board) is a body
independent European which contributes to the consistent application of data protection rules

Annual Report

66

2019 cnpd

within the european union and encourages cooperation between eu authorities responsible for the protection of
data.

It is composed of representatives of the national data protection authorities and the Supervisor
European Data Protection Supervisor (CepD), in English “European Data Protection Supervisor” (eDpS). the eDpB
is instituted by the General Data Protection Regulation (and is based in Brussels). the Commission
Union has the right to take part in the activities and meetings of the Committee, but does not have the right to vote.

the eDpB has a secretariat, which is provided by the CepD. a memorandum of understanding defines the conditions of the
cooperation between the eDpB and the CepD.

the eDpB aims to ensure the consistent application of the General Data Protection Regulation
as well as the European Directive on data protection in the law enforcement field in the union
European.

It can adopt general orientation documents in order to clarify the provisions of European legislative acts
in terms of data protection and, in this way, provide the actors concerned with a consistent interpretation
of their rights and obligations.

the GDPR also entrusts it with the mission of adopting decisions binding on the supervisory authorities
to ensure consistent application of its provisions.

during 11 plenary meetings in 2019, the eDpB adopted numerous working documents, guidelines and letters.
These documents are summarized below and can be downloaded in their full version from the Internet5.

 

a) participation in Subgroups (“subgroupS expert”)

in addition to the plenary meetings, the data protection authorities of the european union meet at the
within thematic sub-groups (legal and IT). Many discussions take place in the
sub-groups in order to find a consensus or a majority. decision-making takes place in plenary sessions
monthly or by written procedure.

in 2019, the CnpD took part in 90 meetings of the following subgroups (“expert Subgroups”):

• Border, travel and law enforcement
• Compliance, e-Government and Health
•  Cooperation
• enforcement

5 https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents_en

Annual Report

67

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

• Financial Matters
• Ending task force
• International transfer
• It user
• Key provisions
• Strategic advisory
• Social Media
• technology

In this context, the CnpD sends representatives to meetings in Brussels or, when this is not exceptionally
not possible, participate in these meetings by teleconference.

the Luxembourg data protection authority has also taken a more active role as rapporteur for
the following topics:

• the internal guidance to set up working procedures for delivering consistent opinions under national certification

schemes;

• the internal guidance on procedures for eDpB approval of criteria leading to the european Data protection Seal.

In addition, the CnpD was co-rapporteur for the following themes:

• Guidelines on pSD2 and the GDpr;
• Guidelines on blockchain;
• use and retention of credit card data;
• Guidelines on connected assistants;
• opinion on the CoM proposal for an e-evidence regulation;
• opinion on the Japan adequacy Decision;
• Guidelines on data subject rights.

 

b) documents adopted in 2019

in 2019, the eDpB notably adopted the following documents:

Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Regulators under GDPR
the purpose of these guidelines is to provide practical advice and assistance in the interpretation
Articles 40 and 41 of the GDPR. they aim to clarify the procedures and rules relating to submission,
approval and publication of codes at national and international level. they also define

Annual Report

68

2019 cnpd

the minimum criteria required by a supervisory authority before agreeing to carry out a review and
thorough evaluation of a code. in addition, they determine the factors relating to the content to be taken
taken into account when evaluating the ability of a particular code to provide and contribute to the application
effectiveness of the GDPR. finally, the guidelines define the requirements for effective monitoring
of a code.

Guidelines 2/2019 regarding Article 6 (1) (b) GDPR in the context of online services
These guidelines relate to the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b)
GDPR in connection with the provision of online services to data subjects. the concept of
"necessity" as it applies to "necessary for the performance of a contract" is analyzed in detail in the lines
guidelines.

Guidelines 3/2019 on the processing of personal data by video devices
Recommendations on how to apply the GDPR with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel through video devices are given in these eDpB guidelines. the examples are not
not exhaustive but the general reasoning can be applied to all potential areas of use.

GDPR Article 25 Guidelines 4/2019: Data Protection by Design and Data Protection
default data
These guidelines provide general guidance on the data protection obligations under
Article 25 of the GDPR where the essential obligation is implementation from the design stage and data protection
by default of the principles of data protection and the rights of the persons concerned. This requires that the
controllers implement appropriate technical and organizational measures, together with
necessary guarantees. They must also be able to demonstrate the effectiveness of the measures implemented.
work.

Guidelines 5/2019 on the criterion of the right to be forgotten in cases of search engines within the framework
GDPR
Following the Costeja judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 13 May 2014, a data subject may
ask the provider of an online search engine to remove one or more links to web pages from
the list of results displayed following a search carried out on the basis of its name.

Following the judgment of the CJEU, the supervisory authorities noted an increase in the number of complaints concerning
the refusal of search engine providers to remove links.

These guidelines aim to interpret the right to be forgotten in search engine cases
light of the provisions of Article 17 of the GDPR (right to erasure / "right to be forgotten").

Annual Report

69

2019 cnpd

activities
in 2019

3

Opinion 3/2019 on questions and answers regarding the interaction between the Clinical Trials Regulation
and GDPR
Following a request from the European Commission (DG Sante), the European Data Protection Board
adopted an opinion on questions and answers relating to clinical trials. the opinion addresses in particular the aspects
related to adequate legal bases in the context of clinical trials and secondary uses of
clinical trial data for scientific purposes. the opinion was forwarded to the European Commission.

The “privacy and electronic communications” regulation
the eDpB has adopted an opinion on the interaction between the eprivacy directive and the general data protection regulation.
data.

In the “Declaration 3/2019 on a privacy and electronic communications regulation”, the eDpB has by
elsewhere called on EU legislators to step up their efforts to adopt a “privacy” regulation
and electronic communications”, which is necessary to complete the applicable eu framework on
data protection and confidentiality of communications.

He recalled the positions previously adopted by data protection authorities in the EU, in particular
opinion 1/2017 of the “article 29” working party and the declaration adopted on 25 May 2018. According to the eDpB, the regulation
“privacy and electronic communications” must in no way lower the level of protection offered by
current Directive 2002/58/EC relating to privacy and electronic communications and should complement the
GDPR by providing strong additional safeguards for all types of electronic communications.
far from constituting an obstacle to the development of new technologies and new services, the regulation
“privacy and electronic communications” is necessary to guarantee conditions of competition
fairness and legal certainty for market operators.

the eDpB called on the Member States, under the leadership of the Presidency of the Council, to ensure a high level of
protection and to finalize their negotiating position, without further delay, so that the negotiations
with the European Parliament can start as soon as possible.

 

3.2 THE “BERLIN GROUP”

the International Telecommunications Data Protection Working Group, better known as
the name of "Berlin Group", focuses mainly on the issue of the protection of privacy in the
telecommunications and Internet services.

at a meeting in 2019 in Bled (Slovenia), the group adopted working documents on:

Annual Report

70

2019 cnpd

• smart devices for children and
• online services for children.

These documents can be downloaded in full (in English and German) from the website of the
working group6.

 
 

3.3 SPRING CONFERENCE OF EUROPEAN AUTHORITIES

TO DATA PROTECTION

The Data Protection Authority of Georgia organized the “Spring conference” in Tbilisi from May 8 to 10, 2019.

The following topics were addressed in particular during the conference entitled “GDPR – One Year (G)old Standard”:

• the modernization of Convention 108;
• protection of children's data;
• the activities of the sub-groups;
• data protection and international organisations;
• the future of the Spring Conference.

 
 

3.4 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF COMMISSIONERS

DATA PROTECTION

The 41st International Conference of Data Protection Commissioners took place October 21-24
2019 in Tirana (Albania). The theme of the conference was “Convergence and connectivity: raising global data
protection standards in the digital age”.

6 https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/working-paper.html

71

2019 CNPD ANNUAL REPORT ACTIVITIES
in 2019

3

during the closed session members agreed on a framework that continues to strengthen the position of the
group as an international forum.

the three strategic priorities of the conference are:

• advancing the protection of privacy in the world in the digital age;
• maximize the voice and influence of the conference, including strengthening the role of the conference in

digital policy and relations with other international organizations and networks;

• build capacity to help members share their expertise throughout the year.

the following resolutions were adopted:

• resolution on the promotion of new and long-term practical instruments and the continuation of legal efforts

for effective cooperation in cross-border law enforcement;

Annual Report

72

2019 cnpd

• Resolution on respect for privacy as a fundamental human right and precondition for the exercise

other fundamental rights;

• resolution aimed at supporting and facilitating regulatory cooperation between regulatory authorities
data protection and consumer protection and competition authorities
in order to achieve clear and consistently high standards of data protection in the economy
digital;

• resolution on the role of human error in breaches of the protection of personal data;
• resolution on social media and violent extremist content online.

a major decision was the change of name from November 15, 2019 of “International Conference
of Data protection and privacy Commissioners (ICDppC)” to “Global privacy assembly (Gpa)”.

This change represents the evolution of the conference, the aim of which is to strengthen its visibility and its position as
as an effective and influential actor at the international level.

Following the closed session, the part open to data protection professionals was held.
data including international organizations, IT companies, consulting firms, firms
lawyers etc.

the next international conferences will take place in Mexico in 2020 and in New Zealand in 2021.

 

3.5 THE EUROPEAN SEMINAR “CASE HANDLING WORKSHOP”

the European Data Protection Supervisor organized the European seminar “Case Handling Workshop”
in Brussels on November 28, 2019.

This “workshop” allowed employees of European data protection authorities to exchange their
practical experience in dealing with complaints and to promote cooperation between the different
authorities.

the following topics were addressed during the various sessions:

• prior consultations;
• data brokers and credit reference systems;
• the handling of cross-border cases;
• investigative practices and
• determination of corrective measures.

Annual Report

73

2019 cnpd

Resources,
STRUCTURES AND
functioning

4

1 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR

expenses
2019 was a year of strengthening and consolidating the structures put in place with the
National Commission for Data Protection (CnpD) as part of the entry into force on May 25
2018 of the new European regulation for the protection of data (GDPR).

the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the
general regime on data protection has given a new legal basis to the CnpD (hereinafter "the law of 1st
august 2018”), allowing her to carry out all the tasks and missions that the rGpD foresees for her.

while the guidance and awareness-raising work to help the actors concerned to comply
at the arrival of the rGpD were the main concern of all CnpD staff during the
in 2018, the development and implementation of new internal structures as well as the adoption of a new
related organizational chart, on the other hand, marked the year 2019.

If the law of August 1, 2018 continued the legal personality, including staff and commitments
of the National Commission for Data Protection (initially established by the former law of
August 2, 2002), it also made changes to the organization of the CnpD by providing, among
others, the reinforcement of the college by a fourth Statutory Auditor and the appointment of an approved company auditor. THE
2018 accounts were thus the first to be audited by a company auditor, who issued a report
favorable in this regard.

the CnpD budget for 2019 of €5,442,516 was marked by efforts to strengthen resources
CnpD human beings. Although the 24% increase compared to the budget for the year 2018 which amounted to
4,415,419 € was not as strong as the increase of the previous year which was 85%, it was quite
even substantial and enabled the CnpD to pursue its 2015-2019 development strategy.

as in the previous year, the additional funds were mainly intended for recruitment
additional staff and to cover the operating costs of an expanding commission.

the total operating costs of the public establishment during the 2019 financial year amounted to €4,799,183
which constitutes an increase of 33% compared to the previous financial year which amounted to €3,604,309.

the total operating costs, however, remained below the amount of the original budget forecasts
estimated at €5,442,516.

Annual Report

74

2019 cnpd

the difference of €643,333 is mainly explained by two positions, namely capital losses for charges
relating to staff, on the one hand, and for rental costs for the new CnpD premises, on the other.
 
indeed, as regards the charges relating to permanent and temporary staff, these had certainly
increased significantly, to reach €4,362,465 in 2019, compared to €3,106,940.50 in 2018.
actual expenditure remained below the budget forecast initially estimated at €4,612,062, i.e. by
5.4%. during 2019, the CnpD workforce was increased by 9 people and a fourth
Commissioner took office on May 1, 2019. at the end of the year, the Cnpd had 43 employees. THE
commitments consisted of 9 career a1 employees, including 6 full-time state employees
indefinite term and 3 state employees hired full time on a fixed term basis. In the same period,
the status of 2 state employees in career a1 was converted to that of civil servants following the successful completion of
the examination-competition by the interested parties.

It should be noted that throughout the year, an official in career B1 continued to benefit from leave for
part-time work for medical reasons and another was absent due to illness. Given
that the CnpD cannot benefit from the overall provision of the state for replacements, it assumes itself
the costs for these absences.

a capital loss of €111,214.37 on the estimated sum of €266,000 related to a rental contract
for a new headquarters for the CnpD which had been signed a few months late. due to the increase
of its workforce, a relocation of CnpD staff to premises where all staff members are
united has become essential to guarantee the proper functioning and good cooperation between its services.
the amount of the rental charges for the administrative building in Belval and the part of the rental charges for the
new premises amounted to €41,134.21.

with regard to expenses for the management and maintenance of computer systems and networks, the CnpD,
aware that its roles and responsibilities were going to change significantly with the arrival of the rGpD, had to invest to
Systematically computerize its existing and future work procedures. to meet the challenges and
to ensure an efficient, high-quality service, the CnpD had opted for extensive digitalisation. In this
perspective, the CnpD had reoriented the operating model of its IT department. thus, the Cnpd has since
2018 use of a platform-as-a-Service (Cloud) type service, the service provider of which is the CtIe. According to the price
of the market, the service offered was equivalent to €308,240.07. in 2018, however, the bill only amounted to €62,663.
This difference is explained by the fact that the CnpD was able to develop its new "Sharepoint" work platform.
using only standard CtIe components. As a result, the CnpD system can be operated
on a standard and shared CtIe platform – thus greatly reducing costs. in 2019, an amount of

Annual Report

75

2019 cnpd

Resources,
STRUCTURES AND
functioning

4

€190,513 had been planned to cover the related costs, but the invoice had not yet been sent to the
CnpD at the end of the financial year. an amount of €54,405 had also been disbursed for accommodation
by a company specializing in the “CnpD Compliance Support tool”, developed by the CnpD in cooperation
with the LIST (Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology) and the Media and Communications Department
by a specialized company.

Other substantial items were made up of professional fees estimated at €24,000 to cover the
trustee costs, costs for replacement personnel and an retainer for attorneys' fees. A
amount of €19,353 was spent to pay the accounting fees of the fiduciary as well as an advance for
the registered auditor.

postage and telecommunications costs have fallen slightly, while since May 25, 2018, the
CnpD no longer issues authorizations and no longer acknowledges receipt of notifications and therefore sends less
of postal mail. They only amounted to €11,418 compared to €12,467 in 2018. other expenses
general operating expenses increased linearly with the increase in the number of employees
in activity.
 
in terms of office equipment and supplies, expenditure fell by 60% to fall from
€28,056 in 2018 to €17,517 in 2019. This decrease is explained by the fact that the CnpD only had to
equip a few offices while waiting for its move to its new premises. the costs relating thereto are shown
in the amortization schedule.

travel and accommodation expenses abroad in 2019 amounted to €61,238, which is an increase
25% compared to the expenditure of the previous year which amounted to €48,826.77. This progress which
also greatly exceeds the forecasts of €42,000 is explained by the high number of meetings related
with the European coherence and cooperation mechanism set up by the GDPR.

external training costs, excluding travel and subsistence costs, for staff have, on the other hand,
experienced a significant drop in 2019 to only €1,050.51 out of the €17,150 initially estimated.
This is a decrease of 96% compared to the previous year's expenditure of €26,209.30. This drop
can be explained by the fact that the majority of agents completed their training at the National Institute of Administration
which since 2019 has been providing this type of course free of charge for civil servants. thus the CnpD
did not need to incur any costs for language courses herself in 2019. However, the trend is
currently on language leave, which means that the expenses for language learning
Luxembourg, to which the CnpD attaches great importance, will henceforth be passed on to the costs of the
staff.

Annual Report

76

2019 cnpd

expenditure relating to information for the general public and communication amounted to only €29,678.94
in 2019, which is a significant decrease compared to the previous year's expenditure of €102,699.41
essentially linked to awareness-raising actions around the entry into application of the GDPR. for 2019, the
expenditure on this position had only been estimated at €8,000 while waiting for the CnpD to redefine its strategy
communication and awareness.

the depreciation recorded in 2019 reached a total amount of €23,365.49 compared to
€16,111.56 in 2018. This increase is mainly due to the acquisition during 2018 of a
accounting software, on the one hand, and new furniture intended to accommodate the new members of the staff of
the CnpD, on the other.

receipts
Until May 25, 2018, the CnpD issued authorizations and received notifications in accordance with the
provisions of the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character. Since the repeal of this law, the CnpD has not generated its own revenue.

operating result
Taking into account the annual allocation of €5,442,416, which the National Commission received for the financial year
2019 on the part of the state pursuant to article 37 paragraph (4) of the aforementioned law of 2 August 2002, the result
operating costs of the public establishment amounted to €643,233 as of December 31, 2019.

the management report on the financial statements for the 2019 financial year was adopted on May 27, 2020 by the four
Commissioners.

Annual Report

77

2019 cnpd

Resources,
STRUCTURES AND
functioning

4

2 PERSONNEL AND SERVICES

College
tin a. larsen, president

thierry lalleManG, curator

Christophe BuSCHMann, Curator

Marc LeMMer, Curator

Dani JeItZ, tied,
Secretariat of the “Plenary Formation” College

Claudia FetZ, employee a1,
Secretariat of the “Restricted Training” College

substitute members
Michèle BraM, Deputy Director
of the Luxembourg Institute of Regulation (Ilr)

Martine KrauS, Vice-president
at the district court of luxembourg

Marc HeMMerlInG, Association of Banks
and Luxembourg Bankers (aBBl),
Member of Executive Committee

François tHIll, Ministry of the Economy,
e-commerce department and
information security

Data protection officer
Bertrand naVarre, employee a1,
Data Protection Officer

international relations
romy SCHauS, tied,
International relations officer

administration department
tin a. larsen, president

Irena aDroVIC, Head of Department

Maryse WINandY, Head of Unit,
reception/Secretariat

Jan KuFFer, employee a2, internal IT & logistics

anna MaGI, employee, human resources,
Accounting and Finance

Stéphanie MatHIeu, Editor, Secretariat

awareness department
Marc LeMMer, Curator

Tom KaYSer, Head of Unit, External Communication

Alexandre KuHn, employee a1,
Legal and technological watch

Vincent leGeleuX, attached,
Legal and technological watch

guidance service
thierry lalleManG, Curator

arnaud HaBran, Head of department

Francis MaQuIl, Head of Unit, Legal Advice

Carmen SChanCK, Head of Unit, Legal Opinions

Mathilde StenerSen, Head of Unit,
thematic guidelines

Sabrine aBaaB, employee a1, legal advice

Clémentine BoulanGer, employee a1,
judicial advice

Annual Report

78

2019 cnpd

nina BurMeister, Attaché, Legal Counsel

Marie DouZal, employee a1, Legal advice,
legal opinions

Kalliroi GraMMenou, employee a1, Legal advice,
legal opinions

Christian Welter, Advisor, Legal Counsel,
legal opinions

Compliance Department
Marc LeMMer, Curator

Alain HerrMann, Head of Department

Christine anDreS, employee a1, Certification

Stéphanie MatHIeu, editor,
European claims

nicolas raSe, employee a1,
national and European complaints

Investigations department
Christophe BuSCHMann, Curator

Michel SInner, Head of Service, Head of Control Unit

Edith MalHIere, Head of Unit, Audits

Sébastien teISSeIre, Head of Unit, notifications of
data breaches

Christine anDreS, employee a1, audits, notifications
data breaches

complaints department
thierry lalleManG, Curator

laurent MaGnuS, Head of department,

Georges WeilanD, Head of Unit,
European claims

Sabrine aBaaB, employee a1,
European claims

Solène Bennet, employee a1,
national and European claims

Clémentine BoulanGer, employee a1,
national complaints

Gaël DuMortIer, employee a1,
national complaints

Barbara Giroud, employee a1,
national and European claims

Jérôme CoMMoDI, employee a1, Controls

Marie-laure FaBBrI, employee a1, audits

alexandre KuHn, employee a1, Controls

Vincent leGeleuX, attaché, audits

Marc MoStert, Inspector, Controls

François rICHalet, employee a1, audits

Mathieu rInCK, employee a1, audits

Céline SIMon-HertZ, employee a1, Controls

Maximilian WelSCH, Employee a1, Controls

Annual Report

79

2019 cnpd

Resources,
STRUCTURES AND
functioning

4

 

2.1 NEW APPOINTMENTS IN 2019

on March 8, 2019, the Government Council proposed the appointment of Mr. Marc Lemmer as
Data Protection Commissioner.

Marc lemmer joined the National Commission for Data Protection from May 1, 2019. His
professional experience in innovation, digitalization and entrepreneurship as well as in consulting,
control and certification will allow the CnpD to continue and accelerate its development in the interest of the
fundamental right to the protection of natural persons with regard to personal data, as well as
in the interest of the free flow of such data.

the Government Council also proposed the appointment of Mrs. Martine Kraus as a member
deputy of the CnpD College. Ms. Martine Kraus, with a legal background, practiced as a lawyer at the
court before joining the bench in 2004.

the posts of a fourth commissioner and a fourth alternate member of the College of the CnpD have been created
by the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the
general data protection regime. This law was adopted in the context of the implementation of the
European Union General Data Protection Regulation came into force on May 25, 2018.

by Grand-Ducal decree of 19 November 2019, Mrs Michèle Bram, Deputy Director at the Luxembourg Institute
regulator, was appointed alternate member of the CnpD for a period of six years, replacing
Ms. Josiane Pauly, resigning alternate member.

Annual Report

80

2019 cnpd

3 ORGANIGRAM OF THE CNPD

in 2019, the CnpD reorganized its services and adapted its organization chart in order to better be able to ensure its
missions and to facilitate the legibility of its activities.

the organizational chart below came into effect on January 1, 2020.

NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR DATA PROTECTION

COLLEGE OF

Data Protection Officer

Secretary(ies) of the College of the National Commission

Head of European and International Relations

AWARENESS

GUIDANCE

Compliance

COMPLAINTS

Investigation

Administration

Communication

external

Requests

info

Opinions Analyzes

impact

complaints

national

Controls

reception
& secretariat

sensitization
& training

Notice

legal

Codes of
Conduct

Communications

european

Audits

resources
human

legal monitoring
& technological

Direct lines
themes

Certificates

Collaborations

research
& innovation

transfers
third country

notices
violations
of data

Accounting
& finances

it internal

& Logistics

s
e
vs

I

v
r
e
s

s
e
you
I
not
a

Annual Report

81

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

5 APPENDICES
 

OPINION AND DECISION
• Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft regulation
Grand-Ducal implementing the law of 13 January 2019 establishing a register of beneficiaries
workforce.

  Deliberation n°9/2019 of January 17, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7348
relating to inactive accounts, inactive safe deposit boxes and dormant insurance contracts and
amending: 1. the amended law of 23 December 1998 establishing a supervisory commission
the financial sector; and 2. the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector.

  Deliberation n°10/2019 of February 1, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the video surveillance of

public spaces and places for public safety purposes.

  Deliberation n°36/2019 of March 15, 2019
 
• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7373
concerning the limitation of the scope of certain rights and obligations under the Regulation
general on data protection and relating to: 1. implementation of regulation (eu) 2016/679
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection of persons
physical conditions with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation);
2. modification of the amended law of 23 December 1998 creating a commission for
financial sector supervision; and 3. modification of the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the
insurance sector.

  Deliberation n°38/2019 of April 5, 2019

86

88

98

110

Annual Report

82

2019 cnpd

123

127

141

148

• Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the use of video surveillance

by the municipalities.

  Deliberation n°39/2019 of May 10, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7424 on
creation of a common secure electronic transmission platform and modification: 1. of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 2. the amended law of July 5, 2016 reorganizing the Service of
state intelligence.

  Deliberation n°40/2019 of June 5, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to: 1. draft law no. 6054
on non-profit associations and foundations; 2. Bill no. 7392 on
modification of the amended law of 21 April 1928 on non-profit associations and foundations
lucrative.

  Deliberation n°41/2019 of June 18, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7425
on: 1° transposition of directive (eu) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
May 17, 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and
possession of weapons; 2° modification of the Penal Code, and 3° repeal of the law of April 20, 1881
concerning the transport and trade of explosive materials.

  Deliberation n°42/2019 of July 8, 2019

Annual Report

83

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to the amendments
governments to the draft law on macroprudential measures relating to credits
residential real estate and amending the amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the
financial sector, and the law of 1 April 2015 establishing a systemic risk committee and
amending the amended law of 23 December 1998 relating to the monetary status and the Central Bank of
luxembourg.

  Deliberation n°44/2019 of August 8, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the central file of the Police

Grand Duchy with regard to data protection legislation.

  Deliberation n°45/2019 of September 13, 2019

• additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the project
Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the procedures for managing the identification of persons and the
categories of data contained in the reference directories for the identification of patients and
service providers.

  Deliberation n°50/2019 of October 18, 2019

• additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the care file
share.

  Deliberation n°151/2019 of October 18, 2019

Annual Report

84

2019 cnpd

163

165

194

198

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on draft law no. 7462 on
modification of the amended law of 5 June 2009 relating to initial qualification and training
continuity of the drivers of certain road vehicles assigned to the transport of goods
or travelers and amending the amended law of July 27, 1993, the purpose of which is 1. the development
and economic diversification and 2. improvement of the general structure and regional balance
economy.

  Deliberation n°52/2019 of November 15, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to the amendments
governments to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the implementing measures relating to aid
the financing of rental guarantees provided for by articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of the law
amended of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance.

  Deliberation n°54/2019 of November 25, 2019

• Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to 1. draft law no. 7475
amending the amended law of 26 July 2002 on the police and on the operation of
Luxembourg airport as well as the construction of a new terminal; 2. to the project of
Grand-Ducal regulation relating to civil aviation security and the conditions of access to the airport of
luxembourg.

  Deliberation n°59/2019 of December 17, 2019

• additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the project
Law No. 6961 on 1. creation of the National Security Authority and 2. modification 1) of the law
amended on June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of parts and security clearances; 2)
of the Penal Code.

  Deliberation n°60/2019 of December 17, 2019

210

219

222

244

Annual Report

85

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of 13 January 2019 establishing a register
beneficial owners.

Deliberation n°9/2019 of January 17, 2019

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”)
"advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

dated November 28, 2018, the CnpD notified draft law no. 7217 establishing a register of beneficiaries
staff and 1° transposing the provisions of article 30 of directive (eu) 2015/849 of the parliament
European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of
money laundering or terrorist financing, amending regulation (eu) n°648/2012 of the parliament
European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive
2006/70/EC of the Commission, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the
Board of May 30, 2018; 2° modification of the amended law of 19 December 2002 concerning the register of
commerce and companies as well as the accounting and annual accounts of companies as well as the draft
Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of 13 January 2019 establishing a register of beneficial owners.

the law of January 13, 2019 establishing a register of beneficial owners was published in the Official Journal of
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg dated 15 January 2019.

on January 11, 2019, the Minister of Justice, Félix Braz, sent the CnpD an amendment
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implementing the law of 13 January 2019 establishing a register of
beneficial owners.
 
the amendment concerns article 5 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, more specifically the supporting documents
which must accompany the application for registration. Following the amendment, registered entities will not be
no longer obliged to send a copy of the identity document of the persons concerned, whose data would be

Annual Report

86

2019 cnpd

kept by the register of beneficial owners, if the latter have an identification number such as
provided for by the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of natural persons. This amendment
thus aims to address the remarks made by the CnpD in its opinion of 22 November 2018 relating to the draft
law n°7217 (deliberation n°485/2018). however, an identity document must be provided for the persons concerned
does not have such an identification number. the comment of the amendment does not address the questions
of the CnpD relating to the general need to obtain and keep this identity document. He
should therefore be clarified.

moreover, the Cnpd regrets that the authors of the draft grand-ducal regulation did not consider it appropriate to
modify other provisions of the text, in particular those concerning the personal data appearing
in the register (see sections II and IV. of the CnpD notice of 22 November 2018), the procedures for accessing the register,
including payment of fees, research arrangements, security measures and measures to
prevent misuse (see section V. of the CnpD opinion of 22 November 2018), as well as the retention period
data (see section VI. of the CnpD opinion of 22 November 2018).

in fact, by regulating access to the register, without providing guarantees seeking to limit the considerable impact that
this register on the fundamental rights of data subjects, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, in
its current state, would risk being contrary to the GDPR by not being limited to what is appropriate and necessary for the
achievement of the legitimate objectives pursued by the regulations in question and would not ensure transposition
consistent with Directive (eu) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention
the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, such as
as amended by Directive (eu) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending the
directive (eu) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering
capital or financing of terrorism as well as Directives 2009/138/Ce and 2013/36/Ce.

in order to strike a fair balance “between the interest of the general public in the prevention of money laundering and
financing of terrorism and the fundamental rights of the persons concerned”, as envisaged by the
Directive 2018/843 (recital 34 of Directive 2018/843), and to ensure compliance with the legal framework
Luxembourg to the GDPR, the CnpD considers it necessary to modify the draft Grand-Ducal regulation in order to integrate
the remarks made by the CnpD in its opinion of 22 November 2018.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on January 17, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc Hemmerling
Substitute member

Annual Report

87

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft law
No. 7348 relating to inactive accounts, inactive safes and insurance contracts
dormant and amending: 1. the amended law of 23 December 1998 creating
a financial sector supervisory commission; and 2. the amended law of 7 December
2015 on the insurance sector.

Deliberation n°10/2019 of February 1, 2019

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”)
"advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

Following the request sent to it by the Minister of Finance dated August 3, 2018,
the National Commission intends to present below its thoughts and comments on the draft law
No. 7348 relating to inactive accounts, inactive safes and dormant insurance contracts and
amending: 1. the amended law of 23 December 1998 establishing a supervisory commission
the financial sector; and 2. the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector (hereinafter “the draft
of law ").

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill aims to establish in Luxembourg law a legal framework governing the
inactive accounts and safes and dormant insurance contracts. It establishes the obligation for
credit institutions, as defined in Article 1, point 8. of the draft law, and health insurance companies
maintain regular contact with their clients and contact them and, if necessary, undertake research
complementary in case of absence of manifestation on the part of the customers. in the event that the inactivity of the customer
continues until the time limit set in the draft law, insurance institutions and companies should record
customer assets with the Caisse de Consignation.

the draft law still regulates the missions of the actors responsible for ensuring the application of the draft law, namely
the Commission de surveillance du secteur financier (“the CSSF”), the Commissariat aux assurances (“the Caa”),
the administration of direct contributions (“the aCD”) and the consignment fund.

Annual Report

88

2019 cnpd

the National Commission intends to limit its observations to the questions raised by the provisions of the draft
law under examination dealing with aspects related to respect for private life and the protection of personal data
staff.

i. The processing of personal data carried out by establishments and insurance companies

To. personal data processed by establishments and insurance companies

i. during the contractual relationship

during the contractual relationship, institutions and insurance companies must update the
data they hold on their customers (Articles 4 and 19 of the bill).

to this end, institutions and insurance companies must, within the time limits set by the bill,
contact the persons concerned (e.g. the account holder or the beneficiary for establishments, the insured
for insurance companies) “by any means”, using “the data at their disposal” (see,
among others, Article 5, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 and Article 20, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 of the bill). According to
commentary to the articles, are referred to “all [the] data available to the establishment, such as the addresses
private or professional, telephone or fax numbers, private or professional, email addresses
available to the institution or the transmission of messages by web-banking”1.

in the absence of a demonstration by the persons concerned, the establishments (for inactive accounts) and the companies
insurance must carry out additional research in order to re-establish contact with the people
concerned2. the CnpD welcomes the precision in the commentary of the articles according to which: "the data obtained
following additional research can only be used for the purposes of this law” 3. the CnpD
would like to point out that in accordance with the principle of data minimization, only information resulting from research
additional information that has made it possible to re-establish the link with the customer or the updated data that people have
provided should be kept by the companies, to the exclusion of any other data that is not relevant or whose
accuracy could not be verified. Insofar as contact could not be reestablished, the evidence demonstrating
the completion of the additional research must be kept for the period provided for in the draft
law (article 6, paragraph 2, subparagraph 3 st article 22, paragraph 2, subparagraph 3 of the bill). This evidence must be
limited to what is strictly necessary to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this bill.

ii. during the check-in

article 29, paragraph 2 of the draft law provides that the information and documents referred to in annex 3 are
kept for the duration of the consignment and for five years following the date on which the consignment

1 bill n°7348, doc. speak. 7348/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 45 for establishments and p. 55-56 for insurance companies.
2 bill n°7348, doc. speak. 7348/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 47.
3 bill n°7348, doc. speak. 7348/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 48 and 57.

Annual Report

89

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

ended, “in order to allow the Caisse de Consignation to examine requests for information under
article 32, to examine requests for restitution and to proceed with restitutions under article 33”. THE
establishments and insurance companies must also keep the supporting documents resulting from the research
complementary to justify to the persons concerned and to the public bodies the accomplishment of their
legal obligations4.

Annex 3 of the draft law sets out in this regard the information that institutions and insurance companies
must retain for the duration of the consignment. This is thus referred to as "the information and documentation
relevant for identification, … including the information and documentation required in accordance
to the amended law of 12 November 2004 [relating to the fight against money laundering and the financing of
terrorism]”. the information required in accordance with the amended law of 12 November 2004 relating to the fight
against money laundering and against the financing of terrorism (hereinafter “the amended law of 12 November 2004”)
include "a copy of or references to documents, data and information that are necessary to
comply with customer due diligence obligations”5, as well as “the supporting documents and
transaction records that are necessary to identify or reconstruct transactions”6.
the commentary to the articles does not specify why this data would be necessary.

the retention of all data collected on the basis of the amended law of November 12, 2004 would risk
not be proportional to the objective of the bill, since establishments and businesses
insurance companies would be obliged to keep all of their customer files established on the basis of the law
amended of 12 November 2004. Insofar as the data collected in accordance with the amended law of 12
November 2004 must not be kept for more than ten years after the end of the contractual relationship7,
the bill in its current wording could have the consequence of extending the retention period
of the said data for a disproportionate duration having regard to the initial purpose of the collection.
 
Given that the purpose of data retention is “to enable the Caisse de Consignation to examine the
requests for information under Article 32, to examine requests for restitution and to proceed with restitutions to the
under Article 33”, the CnpD considers it necessary to limit the data stored to identification data only.

b. the length of the conversation

As for the maximum duration of data retention, the CnpD notes that the precise starting points for the
limitation periods vary depending on the assets and property in question.

thus, if the consignment request is accepted, the thirty-year limitation period for assets from
inactive bank accounts and safes, as well as dormant insurance contracts are beginning to

4 bill n°7348, doc. speak. 7348/00, Commentary on the articles, p. 48 and 57.
5 article 3, paragraph 6, first paragraph, letter a of the amended law of 12 November 2004.
6 article 3, paragraph 6, first paragraph, letter b of the amended law of 12 November 2004.
7 article 3, paragraph 6 of the amended law of 12 November 2004.

Annual Report

90

2019 cnpd

run from the starting point of inactivity (Article 37, paragraph 1, point 1 of the bill). the data
relating to these consignments must be kept for the duration of the consignment and 5 years after the end of
consignment, i.e. for a maximum period of 35 years from the starting point of inactivity (Article
29, paragraph 2 of the bill).

for assets for which the institution remains the depositary, namely “assets not referred to in paragraphs 2 to 7 [of
section 15 of the bill], which are kept in a sealed envelope”, will only be recorded with the
Consignment fund only after 50 years from the starting point of inactivity (Article 15, paragraph 8 of the
law Project). the limitation period is five years after the issue of the consignment receipt by the fund
deposit (Article 37, paragraph 1, point 2. of the bill). the data relating to these goods must
thus be kept for a maximum period of 10 years after the delivery of the consignment receipt.

the CnpD wonders about the retention period of the data, if the request is refused (either implicitly,
either expressly). What about the retention in case of refusal of the request (implicitly and
express): should the data controllers keep the assets and the related data ad vitam
aeternam? the CnpD considers it necessary to further specify the draft law in this respect.

the CnpD also recalls that the data should be erased at the end of the retention period prescribed by
this draft law, given that they must not be kept for longer than the duration for
which they are necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (Article 5, paragraph 1,
letter (e) of the GDPR).

vs. the annual information and the transmission of the request for consignment

According to article 27 of the bill, institutions transmit the total number of inactive account holders
and safes, the total number of said inactive accounts and said inactive safes, as well as the overall balance
of all inactive accounts at the CSSF and the ACD. insurance companies, for their part, are required to
transmit to the Caa and the aCD the total number of dormant insurance contracts and the overall balance of the said
dormant contracts.

the commentary to the articles specifies that the transmission of data to the CSSF and the Caa would be done to ensure
the "monitoring of the evolution of inactive accounts and safes as well as dormant insurance contracts at
for statistical and monitoring purposes, in particular in the context of analyzing the risks associated with money laundering
capital”8. transmissions to the aCD would take place within the framework of the application of the law of 18 december
2015 relating to the common reporting standard (nCD) as well as the amended law of 24 July 2015 relating to
FatCa to enable the "interest tax withholding office [to monitor] compliance
incumbent on establishments and insurance companies towards the administration of direct contributions

8 bill n°7348, doc. speak. 7348/00, Commentary on the articles, page 59.

Annual Report

91

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2” (Article 27, paragraph 3 of the draft law). article commentary
explains that "in the two cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, there will be a single transmission of the same
dataset both to the CSSF and to the aCD, respectively to the Caa and the aCD”9.

as article 27 of the bill is worded, the CnpD understands that the information is transmitted to the CSSF,
the Caa and the aCD in aggregate form, even if the provision does not expressly state this. If the information
aggregates no longer allow a natural person to be identified directly or indirectly, we could
consider it to be anonymous data so that data protection legislation does not
would not find application.

moreover, in order to ensure the compliance of the bill with article 5, paragraph 1, letter (c) of the GDPR, the word
“useful” should be replaced by “necessary” in article 28, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 of the bill.

ii. The processing of personal data carried out by the Caisse de consignation, the CSSF, the CAA

and the ACD

To. roles and responsibilities

Article 32 of the bill aims to regulate the electronic register of consignments kept by the Caisse de
consignment. For the sake of legal certainty, it is important, where applicable, to specify that the Caisse de
consignment is to be considered as the data controller within the meaning of the GDPR.

b. the data processed by the consignment fund

the bill does not list in a single provision the data that are collected by the Caisse de
consignment. It appears from the draft law that the Caisse de Consignation would process the data transmitted by the
establishments and insurance companies within the framework of the consignment request (Appendices 1 and 2 of the
bill), including in particular “information relating to” the persons concerned by the request, namely
holders, beneficiaries, policyholders, insureds and/or beneficiaries. the consignment fund can
still request "all useful additional information and documents" (Article 28, paragraph 2 of the draft
of law) that it deems necessary to process the request. the commentary to the articles stresses in this regard that the
documentation kept by institutions and insurance companies in accordance with Article 29 of the
bill would not be retained by the Caisse de Consignation10.

the CnpD thus wonders about the fate of the additional information and documents transmitted by the establishments
and insurance companies following a request from the Caisse de Consignation. Is this the documentation that
must be kept by institutions and insurance companies? is this information and documents

9 Ibid.
10 bill n°7348, doc. speak. 7348/00, Commentary on the articles, page 61.

Annual Report

92

2019 cnpd

will be kept in duplicate or will they be erased by the Caisse de Consignation following
upon acceptance of the request?

the Consignment Fund would still process the information provided by applicants as part of their
request for information and/or restitution. in this regard, it may also request "any information and document
additional supporting document” of the applicants and “the information and documents referred to in appendix 3 which are useful
with a view to examining restitution requests and restitution procedures” (Article 33, paragraph 1,
paragraphs 2 and 4 of the bill). institutions and insurance companies should transmit "all
of the documentation kept in accordance with Article 29, paragraph 2, which is related to the request for
restitution examined” (article 33, paragraph 1, subparagraph 5 of the bill). These provisions need to be changed.
in order to limit the data that can be processed by the Caisse de consignation.

moreover, for the sake of clarity, the Cnpd wonders if it would not be useful to provide more precisely
in the body of the text of article 32 the content of the register kept by the Caisse de consignation.

vs. the length of the conversation

the CnpD notes that the draft law does not explicitly state the retention period for personal data
personnel processed by the Caisse de consignation, the CSSF, the Caa and the aCD as part of their respective missions
under this bill. As for the consignment fund, the CnpD assumes that the data would be
erased five years after the end of the consignment.

It follows from article 5, paragraph 1, letter (e) of the GDPR that the data must not be stored beyond
the duration necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed. moreover, the protection of
personal data constitutes a matter reserved for the law insofar as it relates to the protection of the
privacy of citizens (Article 11, paragraph 3 of the Constitution). the essential elements11, the objectives and the
principles, including in particular the retention period12, must therefore be included in the law.

in view of the foregoing and for the sake of legal certainty, the CnpD considers it necessary to specify the durations
retention of data processed by the Caisse de consignation, the CSSF, the Caa and the aCD.

d. transfers of personal data

i. cooperation between the CSSF, the Caa and the Caisse de consignation

Article 38 of the bill empowers the CSSF, the Caa and the Caisse de consignation to cooperate and exchange
information and documents “for the purpose of carrying out their respective missions under this law”.

11 judgment of the Constitutional Court - judgments n°00132 and 00133 of March 2, 2018.
12 Opinion No. 52976 of the Council of State of 24 July 2018 relating to the draft Grand-Ducal Regulation 1. amending the amended Grand-Ducal Regulation of 10 August 2005 relating
to the operation of the pilot high school, and 2. repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 27 August 2012 relating to classes in the upper division of education
secondary in the training cycle of the ermesinde high school.

Annual Report

93

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

in the event that the cooperation between the said bodies includes personal data, the CnpD
questions the form or extent of this cooperation.

indeed, any legal basis serving as the basis for the processing of personal data referred to in
Article 6, paragraph 1, letters (c) (processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the
controller is subject) or (e) (the processing is necessary for the performance of a task of interest
public or subject to the exercise of official authority vested in the controller) of the GDPR,
must be accompanied by appropriate data protection safeguards. in particular, according to
paragraph 3 of this same article:

“(…) the purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in
paragraph 1(e) are necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
the public authority vested in the controller (…)”.

These purposes must be determined, explicit and legitimate14 and the data must not be further processed.
in a manner incompatible with these purposes (principle of purpose limitation).

Article 6, paragraph 3 of the GDPR further provides that “(…) this legal basis may contain provisions
to adapt the application of the rules of this regulation, among others: the general conditions
governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; the types of data that are subject to processing;
the people concerned; the entities to which the personal data may be communicated
and the purposes for which they may be used; purpose limitation; retention periods;
and processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing,
such as those provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX
[of the GDPR] (…)”.

Recital 45 of the GDPR also specifies that “(…) this [national] law could specify the conditions
general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can
be communicated, the limitations of the purpose, the storage period and other measures aimed at guaranteeing a
lawful and fair processing. »

It is also worth recalling the obligation of prior information prescribed in Articles 13 (direct collection)
and 14 (indirect collection) of the rGpD. thus, data controllers are obliged to provide certain
information to the persons concerned, including in particular the categories of personal data
concerned. the obligation of prior information does not apply in the event of indirect collection in specific cases,

14 prGpD, article 5, paragraph 1, letter (b).
15 gdpr, article 14, paragraph 5.
16 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data

of a personal nature and the free movement of such data.

17 judgment of 1 October 2015, Smaranda Bara, C-201/14, point 47.

Annual Report

94

2019 cnpd

for example, when "the obtaining or communication of the information is expressly provided for by law
of the Union or the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject and which provides for measures
appropriate to protect the legitimate interests of the data subject”.

In the “Smaranda Bara” judgment of October 1, 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union held
that the articles of directive 95/46/CE16 relating to the obligation of prior information “must be interpreted
in the sense that they oppose national measures … which allow a public administration
of a Member State to transmit personal data to another public administration and their
subsequent processing, without the persons concerned having been informed of this transmission or of
this treatment. the Court considered in particular that an information exchange protocol, which did not
the subject of an official publication, could not be considered as constituting a derogation from the obligation
prior information.

taking into account the above and as this is a matter reserved for the law, the CnpD considers it necessary
to frame the cooperation of public bodies in the bill, indicating the data likely to be
to be exchanged.

the CSSF and the Caa must still inform the Caisse de consignation of all administrative sanctions
imposed, appeals and the results of appeals (Article 44, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2). in view of the wording very
vagueness of this provision and for the sake of legal certainty and in order to respect the principle of minimization
data, the draft law should specify what information, if any, would be transmitted by the CSSF
and the Caa at the Consignment Fund.

ii. access to the register by the administration of direct contributions

It appears from article 38 of the draft law that the aCD can access the information and documents stored
by the Caisse de Consignation “under guarantee of secure, limited and controlled access”, in order to fulfill its
missions provided for in the law of December 18, 2015 relating to the common reporting standard (nCD) and the
amended law of July 24, 2015 relating to FatCa. It is not specified whether this is direct access or access on
asked.

As raised by the Council of State in its opinion of 12 November 2017 relating to bill n°7182
“given that the communication of computer data to third parties may constitute an interference in
privacy and therefore, under Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, a matter reserved for the law
formal, the legal framework must still contain provisions to guarantee the security of the transmission
Datas. »18.

18 Opinion No. 52417 of the Council of State of November 11-21, 2017 relating to Bill No. 7182 amending
  1) the amended law of 16 April 1979 establishing the general status of civil servants; 2) the amended law of 3 August 1998 establishing pension schemes
special for State and municipal civil servants as well as for agents of the Luxembourg National Railway Company; 3) of the law
of December 9, 2005 determining the terms and conditions for the appointment of certain civil servants occupying managerial positions in the
State administrations and services; 4) the amended law of 12 May 2009 establishing a 2nd Chance School; 5) of the amended law of 22 May 2009
establishing a) a National Institute of Languages; b) the position of Luxembourgish language teacher; 6) of the amended law of March 25, 2015 setting
the salary system and the terms and conditions of advancement of civil servants; 7) of the amended law of March 25, 2015 establishing a
special transitional pension for civil servants of the State and municipalities as well as for employees of the Luxembourg National Railway Company;
8) of the amended law of 25 March 2015 setting the terms and conditions for civil servants' access to a salary group higher than their own and for employees of
the State has an indemnity group higher than its own; 9) of the amended law of March 25, 2015 determining the regime and compensation for State employees and
repeal of the amended law of 22 June 1963 fixing the numerical value of the salaries of civil servants of the State as well as the methods of implementation
force of the law of June 22, 1963 establishing the system of salaries for civil servants of the State.

Annual Report

95

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

following the example of the said opinion of the Council of State, the CnpD considers it necessary to insert in the wording of the article under opinion
provisions similar to those contained in article 138 of the amended law of 29 August 2008 on free movement
people and immigration. the wording under notice should therefore read as follows:

“the administration of direct contributions is entitled, at its request, to the data necessary for the management of
files opened on the basis of the law of December 18, 2015 relating to the common reporting standard (nCD) and
the amended law of July 24, 2015 relating to FatCa. the computer system through which the data is transmitted
referred to must be arranged so that the information relating to the person who carried out the transmission,
the information consulted, the date, time and reference of the file in the context of which the consultation was
carried out, as well as the precise reason for the consultation can be traced. »

iii. The rights of data subjects

As raised in point II.d. of this notice, articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR require data controllers to
processing an obligation to inform in the event of direct collection (article 13) and indirect collection (article 14).
As for the consignment fund, paragraph 5 of article 14 of the GDPR provides, among other things, that the obligation
information does not apply in the event of indirect collection, if obtaining is provided for by the law of the union or the
law of the Member State and which provides for appropriate measures aimed at protecting the legitimate interests of the person
concerned.

In order to ensure the protection of individuals, the National Commission recommends that the person responsible for
processing provides clear and complete information on its website containing the required information
under article 14 of the GDPR. As underlined by the GT29 in its guidelines on transparency,
“[a] direct link to this privacy statement or notice should be clearly visible
on each page of this website under a commonly used term (such as "Privacy", "Privacy Policy",
confidentiality” or “privacy notice”).”19

for information, the CnpD also recalls that the exercise by data subjects of their rights, such as
the right of access is free for the persons concerned20. furthermore, in accordance with Article 12, paragraph
3 GDPR, the controller must respond to the data subject within one month of
from the date of receipt of the request. This period may be extended by two months under the conditions provided for in
same paragraph.

It is therefore appropriate to underline the difference between the right of access to personal data and the request
restitution provided for in article 33 of the bill by which “any person justifying a right to assets
consigned” under the bill can seek the return of the assets. Indeed, if a data subject
exercises its right of access to the Caisse de Consignation in accordance with Article 15 of the GDPR, the latter must

19 Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on Transparency within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, Wp260 rev.01, p. 9.
20 gdpr, article 12, paragraph 5.

Annual Report

96

2019 cnpd

receive a response within one month, if the GDPR conditions are met. when a person
submits a request for restitution in accordance with article 33 of the draft law, the Caisse de Consignation should
make a decision within six months of receipt of the complete application.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on 1 February 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

josiane pauly
Substitute member

Annual Report

97

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to video surveillance
public spaces and places for public safety purposes.

Deliberation n°36/2019 of March 15, 2019

In accordance with article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses
or execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the Framework Decision
2008/977/JaI of the Council (hereinafter referred to as “the directive”), to which article 8 of the law of 1 August refers
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime”), the National Commission
for data protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”), “advises the
Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative measures and
administrative procedures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data ".

in view of the advisory mission assigned to it, but also of the general trend towards strengthening the
surveillance of citizens in order to alleviate insecurity and in the face of public concerns on this subject, the Commission
provides a detailed opinion on the creation and operation by the Grand Ducal police of a system of
police video surveillance (hereinafter referred to as “VISupol”) within targeted security zones in Luxembourg City.

the self-referral to the CnpD comes within the framework of the repeal of the legal basis of VISupol following the entry into force
application of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection
and the general data protection regime. indeed, it repeals article 17 of the law of August 2, 2002
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, as amended in
2007 (hereinafter referred to as “the law of August 2, 2002”). the article in question was the legal basis for the creation and
of the operation of VISupol. pursuant to article 17, a grand-ducal regulation of 1 August 2007 authorized
the creation and operation of VISupol by the Grand Ducal police within security zones (hereinafter referred to as
“the implementing regulations”). the implementing regulations delegated the fixing of the safety zones concerned to the
minister having in his attributions the grand-ducal police, namely, the Minister of Internal Security.

the recent modifications of the legal framework being recalled, the CnpD wishes to adopt a global approach as regards
the use of video surveillance devices for police purposes, namely prevention, research and
finding of infringements21. such an approach requires returning to the characteristics and challenges of the

21 In accordance with article 17 of the law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (repealed)
and Article 2 of the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police and amending: 1° the Code of Criminal Procedure; 2° of the amended law of 9 December
2005 determining the terms and conditions for the appointment of certain civil servants occupying managerial positions in the administrations and services of
the state; 3° the law of 10 December 2009 relating to the hospitalization without their consent of persons with mental disorders; 4° of the amended law of
March 25, 2015 setting the salary system and the terms and conditions of advancement for civil servants; 5° of the law of 18 December 2015 relating to
the reception of applicants for international protection and temporary protection, and amending the amended law of 10 August 1991 on the legal profession; and wearing
repeal: 1° of the law of 29 May 1992 relating to the Judicial Police Service and modifying 1. the law of 23 July 1952 relating to the military organisation; 2. the
criminal investigation code; 3. the law of 16 April 1979 having as its object discipline in the Public Force; 2° of the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the police
and the General Police Inspectorate.

Annual Report

98

2019 cnpd

video surveillance for police purposes in the public space (I), reflection which aims to highlight
the importance of the legal framework for the surveillance and control of public space (II).

i. The characteristics and challenges of video surveillance for police purposes in the public space

police video surveillance, the capture of images emanating from it and their subsequent use in order to identify
potentially dangerous individuals are not new methods. Indeed, at the end of the 19th century,
French criminologist Alphonse Bertillon, creates the first police laboratory for criminal identification and
forensic anthropometry. He develops uniform photography techniques and measurement methods
of the human skeleton in order to identify criminals and repeat offenders22.

At all times, images of the human body have been correlated with their behavior and presented as
a miracle solution to societal problems. even today, video surveillance is presented as
the essential remedy in the face of insecurity24. nevertheless, video surveillance devices generate a
surveillance and social control that should be defined and analyzed (a) in order to measure and understand the impact
such devices in the rights and fundamental freedoms recognized to individuals (B).

To. defining, understanding, monitoring and social control

 
a theoretical framework that draws on several disciplines such as sociology and philosophy, promotes
understanding of the functioning of the monitoring and control implemented by a device of
police video surveillance such as VISupol.

sociology first defines surveillance as “the heightened attention paid to people and
populations with the aim of influencing, managing or controlling them. surveillance techniques are evolving
depending on the political, economic and social events that punctuate and shape society. control as to
to him, can be defined as the action of examining what is in conformity or what is not in relation to a standard
defined by power. It involves verifying the proper functioning and quality of the standard in question.
monitoring and control are therefore inseparable.

philosophy, on the other hand, promotes the identification and understanding of the characteristics of monitoring and
control. Michel Foucault in his book Discipline and Punish. birth of prison26 identifies three of them, namely: the
division of space (1), hierarchical surveillance (2) and ultimately, the knowledge generated on individuals (3).

1) the division of space

the identification of urban areas to be monitored is characteristic of all monitoring and control strategies.

22 Pavlich, G, (2009), the subjects of criminal identification. Punishment & Society, 11 (2), p. 174 and following. See also, Bertillon a., (1885), Identification

anthropometric. Signage instruction, Ministry of the Interior, prison administration, Melun, p. 132.

23 Van der Walt J., (2015), “the literary exception: reflections on agamben’s “liberal Democratic” political theology and the religious Destabilization of the political

in our time”, in new perspectives. Interdisciplinary Journal of central & east european politics and International relations, 23 (1), p.17.

24 Mucchielli l., You are filmed! Malakoff, Armand Colin, p. 228.
25 lyon, D. “September 11, the “war on terrorism” and generalized surveillance”, in Bigo, D., Bonelli, l., & Deltombe, t. (2008), on behalf of 9/11.

democracies put to the test by anti-terrorism, paris, la Découverte, p. 93.

26 Foucault, M. (1975). Keep an eye on and punish. birth of prison. editions Gallimard, p. 360.

Annual Report

99

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

This is generally modulated according to the needs of the urban space and the risks present there.
for example, it may be more intense in an area with a high crime rate and may be
low or even non-existent in residential neighborhoods that are devoid of major problems and do not have a degree
of high activity.

the present considerations reveal that the delimitation of these zones must meet criteria
goals. in this respect, the implementing regulations, taken in execution of the law of August 2, 2002, which was repealed
by the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and
of the general data protection regime, informs us about the objectives of VISupol and the areas of
security put in place. their purpose is the prevention, investigation and establishment of criminal offences27. He
also reveals that the division of space is not permanent. indeed, Article 10 paragraph 2 of the same
regulations specify that the safety zones to be monitored are designated as such for a period of two years.
once this period has expired, video surveillance can be extended following an assessment of the usefulness and necessity
of it.

in view of the many ministerial regulations issued in recent years, the cnpd notes that the police
grand-ducale divides up space by designating security zones in luxembourg-ville. In this
regard, the ministerial regulation of September 15, 2017 designating the safety zones subject to
video surveillance by the Grand Ducal police reveals which spaces have been cut out. This is the district of
limpertsberg-Glacis (Zone a), the station district (Zone C) as well as the surroundings of the “Josy Barthel” stadium
(Area D). the ministerial regulation of 28 March 2018 extending video surveillance in the area of
“zone e” safety zone in luxembourg-ville28 provides information on the existence of an additional safety zone
in the Kirchberg district, around the Conference Centre.

2) hierarchical supervision

any monitoring and control strategy follows a strict hierarchy that promotes organization and good
implementation of it. There are those who design and order the implementation of such a strategy, those
who take care of the management and others who carry it out. the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal police,
in particular its Chapter 2 Section 1 devoted to administrative police missions does not give any
precision as to the hierarchy that orchestrates and executes the video surveillance of the districts of luxembourg-city
previously mentioned. Chapter 4 of the said law relating to the relations of the police with other authorities makes
certainly state in its 1st section, of the relations between the grand-ducal police and the municipal authorities, such as
the mayors29. the composition and implementation of a regional consultation committee30 and a committee
of municipal prevention31 are also mentioned there. However, the CnpD notes that no provisions
of these articles are devoted to the actors involved in the VISupol system, which does not suggest the
hierarchy that orchestrates said device.

27 Grand-Ducal regulation of 1 August 2007 authorizing the creation and operation by the police of a video surveillance system for security zones, art. 1st.
28 This regulation will cease to have effect on March 28, 2019.
29 law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police and amending: 1° the Code of Criminal Procedure; 2° of the amended law of 9 December 2005 determining
the terms and conditions for the appointment of certain civil servants occupying managerial positions in the administrations and services of the State; 3° of the law of
10 December 2009 relating to the hospitalization without their consent of people with mental disorders; 4° the amended law of 25 March 2015 setting the
system of salaries and the terms and conditions of advancement of civil servants; 5° of the law of 18 December 2015 relating to the reception of applicants
international protection and temporary protection, and amending the amended law of 10 August 1991 on the legal profession; and repealing: 1° the law of
May 29, 1992 relating to the Judicial Police Service and amending 1. the law of July 23, 1952 concerning the military organization; 2. the criminal investigation code;
3. the law of 16 April 1979 having as its object discipline in the Public Force; 2° the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the police and the General Inspectorate of the
police, sections 35 and 36.

30 Ibid., article 37.
31 Ibid., article 38.

annual report 100 2019 cnpd

3) generate knowledge about individuals

any video surveillance system makes it possible to generate substantial knowledge about the individuals present in the
security areas. the attitude, gait, activities and movements of individuals in the places under surveillance
are scrutinized. the grouping of all these elements makes it possible, to a certain extent, to make a
very precise idea of the habits of the individuals monitored and to generate a profile.

However, the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police does not give any indication relating to the system
VISupol so that it is impossible to have information on the type of knowledge generated by the device on the
people. Information is nevertheless given by article 3 of the implementing regulation. This one has in
effect that “the video surveillance system takes images of the determined security zones […] and records these
images on a computer tool. It is therefore possible to deduce that VISupol is limited to image capture.

b. the impact of the surveillance society and social control on fundamental rights and recognized freedoms

to individuals

the fundamental rights and freedoms granted to individuals benefit from considerable protection at national level.
European. indeed, the European Convention on Human Rights (hereinafter referred to as “the ECHR”) is its
first illustration.

In addition, the lisbon treaty strengthens the guarantee of fundamental rights by erecting the Charter of Rights
(hereinafter referred to as “the Charter”), to the rank of primary law of the European Union32. article 2 of
Treaty on European Union states that the latter is based on values such as respect for freedom
and human rights. the judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the “CJEU”) as well
that of the European Court of Human Rights33 (hereinafter referred to as the “ECtHR”), also act as guarantor
respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.

the purpose of this section is to highlight the impact that CCTV systems can have
on fundamental rights. the use of monitoring devices may have the effect of limiting compliance with the
right to privacy and data protection (1), it can also generate discrimination and
stigmatization (2) and limits the right to free movement of individuals within the public space (3)34.

1) limitation of the right to privacy and data protection by video surveillance devices

video surveillance in public spaces has the effect of limiting the right to data protection to
personal character protected by the Charter35 and, to a greater extent, the right to respect for private life and
protected by both the Charter36 and the European Convention on Human Rights37 but also

32 Article 6 paragraph 1 of the Treaty on European Union, O.J.E., C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 13-390.
33 the CnpD will focus more on the judgments rendered by the CJE but this does not mean that it ignores the judgments rendered by the ECHR.
34 the CnpD limits its analysis to these three fundamental rights but this does not mean that the impact of video surveillance is limited to these.
35 Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, O.J.C.e., C 326 of 26.10.2012, p. 391.
36 Ibid.
37 Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, signed in Rome on 4.XI.1950.

Annual Report

101

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

by the Luxembourg Constitution38. Indeed, such devices generate knowledge about individuals, knowing who
has in particular been the subject of developments in the case law of the CJEU and the ECtHR.

As a preliminary point, the National Commission recalls the remarks of Advocate General Villalon in the context of the judgment of
the CJue Digital rights which affirms that this knowledge generates a “mapping as faithful as exhaustive of a fraction
importance of the behaviors of a person relating strictly to his private life, even a complete portrait
and precise of his private identity”39. the CnpD can take inspiration from this CJEU judgment and observe that the images
emanating from video surveillance devices “taken as a whole, are likely to make it possible to draw
very specific conclusions about the privacy of people whose data, such as habits
daily life, permanent or temporary places of residence, daily or other trips,
activities carried out, the social relations of these people and the social environments frequented by them.

the European Court of Human Rights, for its part, also considers that the fact of monitoring acts of
people in a public place, in particular by means of a video surveillance system, leads to
interference with the privacy of these persons if the act of monitoring is accompanied by a recording and is done
systematically or permanently.41

video surveillance can also have the effect of generating discrimination and stigmatization of
individuals within the security zones.

2) video surveillance generates discrimination and stigmatization

the european union is based on values of which non-discrimination is a part42. prohibition of discrimination
is also enshrined in the ECHR43, the Charter44 and in the Luxembourg Constitution45.

in this respect, the National Commission wishes to recall that individuals are not all equal in the face of
video surveillance. indeed, the large number of people in the monitored areas and the incalculable
quantity of images collected are all factors that complicate police observation. to carry out its
mission, the police must therefore make a selection of the people to be monitored and the images collected. a
distinction between those who behave suspiciously and those who are devoid of it takes place.

Such practices lead the CnpD to question what is suspicious behavior and what are the criteria
allowing the police to identify such behavior?

In their study on the impact of video surveillance, prof. norris and prof. Armstrong reveal that belonging
social status, age, ethnicity and gender may be selection criteria taken into account by the police in order to
focus more on observing individuals46. the gait of individuals, their clothing styles, whether they are
active, passive, provocative etc.,47 are all elements taken into account during monitoring. their study reveals
also that 36% of people subject to close observation are so for “obvious reasons”, 24% of

38 Article 11 (3), Constitution, Coordinated text updated to October 20, 2016, collection produced by the Ministry of State – Central Legislation Service.
39 Opinion of Advocate General Pedro Cruz Villalon in joined cases Digital rights Ireland Seitlinger and Others, C-293/12 and C-594/12, eu:C:2013:845, point 74.
40 judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, eu:C:201:2014:238, point 27.
41 eHD Court, peck v. UK, n°44647/98, 28 January 2003, para.59.
42 Treaty on European Union, OJEU, C326, 26.10.2012, p. 13-390, article 2.
43 article 14.
44 section 21.
45 Article 10a.
46 norris, C. and armstrong, G., the Maximum, Surveillance Society: the rise of CCtV, (1999 b), oxford:Berg. study resumed in lyon, D., Surveillance as social sorting.

privacy, risk and digital discrimination, routledge, (2008), p. 266.

47 Ibid.

annual report 102 2019 cnpd

people are monitored because of their behavior and 34% based on their ethnicity. others
revealing figures: 65% of teenagers are watched for no particular reason, 68% people of color have
is also subject to targeted observation without reasons. therefore, young people, people of color
and men are the most watched people for no reason48. They conclude that such differentiation
is not based on objective behavioral and individual criteria but based on belonging to a
social group and therefore these practices are discriminatory and can accentuate marginalization and
stigmatization of the people targeted49 leading to the implementation of social sorting50.

the installation and use of video surveillance may also have the effect of limiting the right to freedom of movement.

3) limitation of the right to free movement

the free movement of persons is a fundamental right of the european union. It is devoted to article 2
of additional protocol n°4 to the ECHR as well as to article 45 of the Charter of fundamental rights of the union
European.

It is undeniable that the use of video surveillance in public places limits the scope of the right to freedom
traffic. in fact, the images emitted by the video surveillance devices can have the effect of following the
individuals, chart their daily routes. individuals may feel unable to
move freely in the public space without being constantly monitored51.

the study of the characteristics and issues of video surveillance for police purposes in the public space being
made and the necessary consideration of the legal framework currently in force being recalled, there is now
place to emphasize the importance of the legal framework for the monitoring and control that take place within
of public space.

ii. The importance of the legal framework for the surveillance and control of public space

Providing a legal basis for a police video surveillance system implemented in the public space allows
to set safeguards regarding its use and establish guarantees for people who are subject to
monitoring and control that emanates from it. the framing by a text of law of such a device makes it possible to curb
the ubiquity of its installation and not to consider all individuals as potential suspects.

the purpose of this part is to highlight the way in which European law circumscribes interference
made in fundamental rights by monitoring devices (a) and shapes national law by
material (B).

To. the framework for interference with fundamental rights caused by surveillance systems

by European law

48 Ibid.
49 Ibid.
50 Lyons D. (2003). Surveillance as a social sorting: privacy, risk, and digital discrimination. psychology press, p.20.
51 “Article 29” Working Party on Data Protection, Opinion 4/2004 on the processing of personal data by means of video surveillance,
adopted on February 11, 2004, 117/02/Fr Wp 89, available at: https://cnpd.public.lu/dam-assets/fr/publications/groupe-art29/wp089_fr.pdf, consulted for the
last seen on 02/14/2019.

Annual Report

103

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

the imperative of a legal basis (1) and the quality of the law (2) are criteria enshrined in European law in order to
control interference with fundamental rights emanate from surveillance strategies.

1) the imperative of the legal basis

the CnpD wishes to recall that respect for fundamental rights is not absolute since interference
in the latter is recognized in Article 52 paragraph 1 of the Charter. Indeed, this article provides that "any
limitation of the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognized by this Charter must be provided for by law”52. the ECHR
for its part, also makes this limitation possible while linking it to respect for private and family life
for example53.

the ECJ and the ECtHR have ruled on numerous occasions on the need for a law framing
violation of fundamental rights. In the Digital rights judgment54 relating to the assessment of the
validity of Directive 2006/24/EC with Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter or in Opinion 1/15 relating to
the conclusion of the passenger name record (pnr) agreement between the european union and Canada55, the CJeu
had the opportunity to recall the obligation to provide legally for any interference with fundamental rights.
the ECtHR in its Kopp judgment56 relating to the tapping of the telephone lines of a law firm
on the instruction of the Attorney General of the Swiss Confederation as well as in the amann judgment57 relating to
interception of a telephone communication, verifies the existence of a legal basis
justifying the limitations in fundamental rights, in particular the right to respect for private life and
family.

emanates from the imperative that the interference be provided for by law, the requirement of the quality of the latter.

2) the quality of the law

the quality of the law, particularly in criminal matters, is assessed with regard to compliance with the principle of legality of
incriminations. indeed, the legality of penalties is the enunciation in the law of the incriminated behaviors58. She
has the effect of “ensuring the best possible knowledge of the criminal law; promote predictability and security
in social exchanges59”, guaranteeing the principle of hierarchy; of separation of powers and thereby limit
the arbitrariness of the judge. at the supranational level, this principle is enshrined in the ECHR in its article 7, which perceives it
as an absolute right from which no one can derogate. therefore, this one belongs to the general principles
European Union law.

From the principle of legality emanates the predictability of the law, the principle according to which an individual sufficiently
informed must know which behaviors can be monitored in the space
audience.

52 O.J.u.e., C 326, 26.10.2012, p.391-407.
53 Article 8 paragraph 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, signed in Rome on 4.XI.1950.
54 judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, eu:C:201:2014:238, point 38.
55 reviews 1/15, of September 8, 2016, eu:C:2016:656.
56 ECtHR, Kopp c. Switzerland, n°23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 56 to 61.
57 ECtHR, amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95, February 16, 2000, para. 46 to 54.
58 Beccaria, C., (1870). Offenses and penalties. Guillaumin.
59 Cartuyvels Y., “The paradigms of modern criminal law in the “postmodern” period: evolutions and transformations, in Massé M., J-p. Jean, Giudicelli a. (edited),

(2009). postmodern criminal law? Putting contemporary evolutions and ruptures into perspective. Presses Universitaires de France, p. 77.

60 Cartuyvels Y., Guillain C., Kerchove M., tulkens F. (ed.), (2010), Introduction to criminal law. legal and criminological aspects, Brussels, Kluwer, p. 225.
61 Treaty on European Union, OJEU, C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 13-390, article 6 paragraph 3.

annual report 104 2019 cnpd

thus, in accordance with the principle of legality of criminal law, the CnpD affirms that individuals must be able to be
kept informed of behaviors that particularly attract the attention of Grand Ducal police officers
when viewing images.

the ECtHR and the ECJ also recall the criteria that the law must meet in order to demonstrate
quality.

the ECtHR affirms that the words "provided for by law" imply conditions that go beyond the existence
a legal basis in domestic law and require that it be “accessible” and “foreseeable””62. she adds that
these terms imply that "domestic law must offer some protection against arbitrary attacks on the
public authority to the rights guaranteed by Article 8 paragraph 1”63. therefore, the law “must define the extent
and the procedures for exercising power with sufficient clarity – taking into account the legitimate aim pursued – to
provide the individual with adequate protection against arbitrariness”.

the ECJ, for its part, recalls the importance “of providing clear and precise rules governing the scope and
the application of a measure and imposing a minimum of requirements, so that the persons whose data to
personal nature are concerned have sufficient safeguards to effectively protect their
data against the risk of misuse as well as against any illicit access and use of this data”.

since interference with fundamental rights and freedoms is governed by European law, there is
It is now time to analyze the implementation of such a framework at the national level.

b. limitation of the exercise of fundamental rights by national law

Given the obligation imposed by European law and with regard to the case law of the CJEU and the
ECtHR, the CnpD considers that, in principle, Member States have no choice but to provide a basis
legal for any limitation on the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms. the installation of systems
CCTV for police purposes is no exception. Many European countries using
to video surveillance in the public space provides the latter with a legal basis, this is the case of our neighboring countries, the
France (1), Belgium (2) and Germany (3).

1) the French example

in France, the number of cameras filming the public space has greatly increased to fight against insecurity66.
the installation of so-called video protection systems is provided for by the Internal Security Code67. the objectives of
the installation of such devices in the public space are provided for. This includes preventing damage
the security of people and property in specific areas68, to prevent acts of terrorism69,

62 ECtHR, amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95, February 16, 2000, para, 55.
63 Ibid., para 56.
64 Ibid. See also Court of Human Rights, Malone c. United Kingdom, series a n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; Court of Human Rights, Fernández Martínez c. Spain
Ce:eCHr:2014:0612JuD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court eDH, liberty and others c. United Kingdom, n°58243/00, of July 1, 2008, para. 62 and 63; Court
eDH, rotaru c. romania, app. no. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court eDH, S and Marper c. United Kingdom, applications n°30562/04 and 30566/04, of 4
December 2008 para. 99.

65 judgment of October 6, 2015, Schrems, C-362/14, eu:C:2015:650, paragraph 91. See also judgment of April 8, 2014, Digital rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and

C-594/12, eu:C:201:2014:238, point, 54,

66 Mucchielli l., You are filmed! Malakoff, Armand Colin, p. 25 and following.
67 Title V of the Internal Security Code.
68 Ibidem, article l251-2, 5°.
69 Ibidem, articles l251-2, 6° and articles l223-1 et seq.

Annual Report

105

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

natural or technological risks, etc.70. with regard to their authorizations, these are given by
the prefect71 for a renewable period of five years72. the Internal Security Code also mentions the
persons in charge of viewing the images73, those who may have access to them74 as well as the
retention period for images which may not exceed one month75. In addition, the authorities in charge of the management
and the evaluation of video protection devices such as the departmental76 and national77 Commissions
of video protection and the National Commission for Computing and Liberties78 are also specified there.

this development reveals that France has provided a legal basis for the installation and implementation of
surveillance cameras in the public space. This meets the quality criteria of the law enshrined in
European law and the case law of the ECtHR and the ECJ.

2) the Belgian example

in Belgium, the law of 21 March 2018 amending the law on the police function, with a view to regulating the use of
cameras by the police services79 is the legal basis governing video surveillance in public spaces at
police purposes. This law intervenes in the context of the fight against terrorism and anticipates the entry into application of the
GDPR and the directive. This provides for the conditions under which the police services may have
use of CCTV. the law also specifies that the use of such a device is carried out
by decision and under the responsibility of the police officer who is also required to ensure compliance with
principles of proportionality and subsidiarity81. like French law, Belgian law provides for a
authority in charge of evaluating video surveillance devices. indeed, it is the Municipal Council of the
municipality concerned by the installation of the latter or of the Minister of the Interior (or his delegate), concerning
federal police services.

In addition, the retention period not exceeding twelve months of the personal data collected by
cameras83, as well as access to images for legal and other purposes, are provided for84.

It emerges from this development that the video surveillance devices within the public space for the purposes
police forces is legally provided for in Belgian law. The same is true in German law.

3) the German example

the basic law for the federal republic of germany protects, among other things, the dignity of the human being and the
mandatory nature of fundamental rights for public authorities85, freedom of action, equality before the law86
or freedom of movement and establishment87. In addition, the fundamental law provides that the restriction of a
fundamental right must be provided for by law.

70 Ibidem, article l251-2.
71 Ibidem, article l252-1.
72 Ibidem, article l252-2
73 Ibidem, article l252-2.
74 Ibidem, article l252-3.
75 Ibidem, article l252-5.
76 Ibidem, articles l251-4; l253-1.
77 Ibidem, articles l251-5, 6 and 7.
78 Ibidem, articles l251-4 and; l253-2, 3, 4 and 5.
79 amending the law of March 21, 2007 regulating the installation and use of
surveillance cameras, the law of 30 November 1998 organizing the services
intelligence and security and the law of 2 October 2017 regulating the
private and special security.

80 Ibid., article 8.
81 Ibid., article 10.
82 Ibid., article 9.1.
83 Ibid., article 11.
84 Ibid., article 12.
85 Deutscher Bundestag, Basic Law for the Federal Republic
of germany, article 1, the law is available at: https://www.bundestag.
from/resource/blob/189762/f0568757877611b2e434039d29a1a822/law_
fundamental-data.pdf, last accessed on 03/14/2019.

86 Ibid., article 18.
87 Ibid., article 11.
88 Ibid., article 19.

annual report 106 2019 cnpd

the German Constitutional Court ensures compliance with Article 19 of the Basic Law since it
enshrines the requirement for a legal basis for the video surveillance of public spaces. She was also concerned
the monitoring of the behavior of the persons concerned which, according to it, represents an infringement of the rights
fundamentals. the infringing nature of fundamental rights does not disappear either by the fact that video surveillance
takes place in the public space (and not in private places), neither by informing the persons concerned, nor by
the absence of objections from them89. the Constitutional Court deduces from this that the establishment of a
video surveillance requires a legal basis which must respect the principles of clarity and proportionality.90 the absence
of such legislation has the consequence of subjecting citizens to the arbitrariness of the authorities91. the Court specifies
also that the degree of precision of the law required is determined according to the intensity of the infringement of the rights
fundamental, and, with regard to the video surveillance of a public place, the attack is considered to be particularly
important since it is a measure aimed indiscriminately at all persons on the premises doing
the subject of video surveillance and that most of the people concerned have nothing to reproach themselves with92.

The Länder are responsible for legislating on video surveillance in the public space.
in this regard, North Rhine-Westphalia93 and Hamburg94 can be taken as examples95. These laws
determine the criteria according to which the cameras are installed, with people and institutions deciding
the installation of the cameras and the retention period of the images.

with regard to the criteria determining the places of installation of the cameras, it is necessary, according to these legislations, to
take into account offenses that have been committed in the past and those likely to occur in the future.

the legislation of the land of north rhine-Westphalia also specifies that video surveillance cannot be
implementation only if it is ensured that the police can intervene very quickly in the event of a violation. indeed, a
video surveillance on one side without guarantee of prompt intervention on the other is deemed inadmissible for the State of
right.96

thus, like its French and Belgian neighbours, Germany legally regulates the installation and implementation
video surveillance in public spaces and respects European law and the case law of the courts
Europeans in this regard.

conclusion

the study of the characteristics and issues of video surveillance for police purposes in the public space, the
surveillance, the social control that emanates from it and the impact of such mechanisms on fundamental rights and
freedoms recognized to individuals, are all reasons that justify the importance of the legal framework of
devices such as VISupol.

89 Bundesverfassungsgericht, Beschluss vom 23. Februar 2007 - 1 Bvr 2368/06, points 38 to 40, available at:
  https://www.bundesverfassungsgericht.de/SharedDocs/entscheidungen/De/2007/02/rk20070223_1bvr236806.html, last accessed 13/03/2019.
90 Ibid., paragraph 41.
91 Ibid., paragraph 46.
92 Ibidem, paragraphs 51 and 52.
93 § 15a polizeigesetz des moors nordrhein-westfalen (polG nrW), available at:
  https://recht.nrw.de/lmi/owa/br_bes_detail?sg=0&menu=1&bes_id=5173&anw_nr=2&aufgehoben=n&det_id=423939, last accessed 03/13/2019.
94 § 8 abs. 3 polDVG (Gesetz über die Datenverarbeitung der polizei), available on page:
  http://www.landesrecht-hamburg.de/jportal/portal/page/bshaprod.psml?showdoccase=1&doc.id=jlr-polDVGHarahmen&doc.part=X&doc.origin=bs, accessed for

last seen on 03/13/2019.

96 On this subject, see the parliamentary works on the legislation of the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia p.10 available on page:
  https://www.landtag.nrw.de/portal/WWW/dokumentenarchiv/Dokument/MMD17-3865.pdf, last accessed 03/13/2019.

Annual Report

107

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Indeed, the CnpD notes that like any video surveillance device, VISupol is an instrument that
generates permanent surveillance and control of individuals. therefore, this monitoring device
police interferes with the right to privacy and data protection. He is also
likely to impede the right to non-discrimination and limit the free movement of persons within the
public space.

nevertheless, the National Commission wishes to recall that such limitations are possible provided that they are
legally provided for. the existence of such an imperative is explained in particular by the fact that the persons whose
fundamental rights and freedoms are limited must have sufficient safeguards to protect themselves
effectively against the risk of abuse against them97.

the legal basis is also useful to legislators and judges in assessing the necessity and character
proportionate to the measure, which are among other conditions that the interferences must satisfy98. by
Consequently, it ensures that the installation and use of video surveillance for police purposes
responds to objective criteria such as the fight against delinquency and not subjective criteria such as the feeling of insecurity
felt by individuals.

thus, taking into account the repeal of the law of 2002 and the Grand-Ducal regulations on which the device
VISupol is based and the general terms of the law relating to the missions of the Grand Ducal police, the
CnpD suggests that the legal provisions of the latter be further specified in order to include VISupol
within its scope.

however, the Cnpd wonders whether it would not be more appropriate for luxembourg to adopt a specific law
governing the installation and operation of video surveillance devices in public spaces for police purposes
as do France, Belgium and Germany.

In this context, the CnpD welcomes the recent statement by the Minister of Homeland Security who considers “that it is
appropriate to reflect on the establishment of a specific legal framework for the future installation of security cameras.
monitoring”99. This position is in line with the government's desire to legislate
with regard to the planned use of “bodycams” by the Grand Ducal police if we refer to the agreement
of the government coalition which specifies that: “the practical experience aimed at the introduction of worn cameras
on the body and, where appropriate, on-board cameras in vehicles will be carried out. a precise legal framework and
applicable to the recording of personal data during police interventions must
be established”. the present suggestions of the National Commission also echo the principles of
legality and quality of the law, enshrined in European law and the case law of the Court of Justice of the Union
European Court and the European Court of Human Rights.

97 Ibid., paragraph 54.
98 Article 52 paragraph 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, O.J.E., C 326, 26.10.2012, p.391-407.
99 Press release by the Ministry of Homeland Security dated 03/12/2019, available at:
  https://gouvernement.lu/fr/actualites/toutes_actualites/communiques/2019/03-mars/12-bausch-videoprotection.html, last consulted on 12/03/2019.

annual report 108 2019 cnpd

the CnpD wishes to add that this notice is not limited to the VISupol system of the Grand-Ducal police
which, for the moment, is only operated on the territory of the City of Luxembourg. indeed, insofar as
the officials of certain municipalities have also expressed their intention of wanting to monitor spaces and
public places located on their municipal territories, this notice has a general scope which is intended to cover
any video surveillance device, having a public security purpose, regardless of whether it is operated at the level
nationally by the Grand-Ducal police or at local level by municipalities.

thus, whatever the choice of legal basis, this will have the effect of highlighting that within a
democracy such as Luxembourg, one of the founding countries of the European Union and protectors of its values100,
the Grand-Ducal police or the municipalities, carry out their surveillance missions resulting from an interaction
complex between legal, organizational, professional, situational and interactional rules101.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on March 15, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

100 Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union,
101 Lyon D., Surveillance as social sorting: privacy, risk, and digital discrimination, routledge, 2003, p.252

Annual Report

109

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft law
No. 7373 concerning the limitation of the scope of certain rights and obligations within the framework
of the General Data Protection Regulation and relating to: 1. implementation of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation); 2. modification of the amended law
of December 23, 1998 establishing a supervisory commission for the sector
financial ; and 3. modification of the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the sector of
insurance.

Deliberation n°38/2019 of April 5, 2019

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

Following the request sent to it by the Minister of Finance on October 18, 2018, the
National Commission intends to present below its thoughts and comments on Bill 7373
concerning the limitation of the scope of certain rights and obligations under the General Regulation on the
data protection and relating to: 1. implementation of regulation (eu) 2016/679 of the european parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal nature and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation
on data protection); 2. modification of the amended law of 23 December 1998 creating a
Financial Sector Supervisory Commission ; and 3. modification of the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the
insurance sector (hereinafter “the bill”).

According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill intends to modify the amended law of 23 December 1998 establishing
a Financial Sector Supervisory Commission (hereinafter “the amended law of 23 December 1998”) and

annual report 110 2019 cnpd

the amended law of 7 December 2015 on the insurance sector (hereinafter "the amended law of 7 December
2015”) in order to enable the Financial Sector Supervisory Commission (hereinafter “the CSSF”) and the
Commissariat aux assurances (hereinafter “the Caa”) to avail itself of some of the limitations set out in Article
23, paragraph 2 of the GDPR in the performance of their tasks.

the GDPR, which is directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union since May 25
2018, intends to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, and in particular their right
the protection of personal data (Article 1(2)). It aims to harmonize the rules
existing European Unions in order to "ensure a coherent and homogeneous application of the rules for the protection of
fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
throughout the union"102 and to modernize Directive 1995/46/EC (transposed into Luxembourg law
by the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of data
of a personal nature) in an increasingly digital society by giving back to citizens the control of
data concerning them, whether collected and used by private economic actors
or by public service actors103.

the GDPR confers in particular in its chapter III (articles 12 to 23) various rights to the data subjects,
allowing them to control the use of personal data concerning them. Its article 23 provides
however, the law of a Member State may, by means of legislative measures, limit the scope of these rights,
where such limitation respects the essence of fundamental rights and freedoms and constitutes a measure
necessary and proportionate in a democratic society to guarantee one of the objectives provided for
Article 23, paragraph 1, provided that this legislative measure contains specific provisions relating to the
at least to the elements referred to in Article 23(2). Furthermore, the limitations must comply with the requirements
set out by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (hereinafter “the Charter”) and by the Convention
European Union for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (hereinafter “the Convention”)104.

the National Commission has already had the opportunity to rule on the opening clauses of Article 23 of the
GDPR in the context of its opinion of March 29, 2018 relating to draft law no. 7250 implementing, in terms of
tax, the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC and amending various provisions
(deliberation no. 219/2018), in which it provided details as to the procedures for implementing the
opening clauses and safeguards, which must be incorporated into legislation to ensure compliance
of the rGpD.

having already been consulted by the Ministry of Finance at the stage of the draft law in question, the Commission
national limits itself to making the following observations.

102 See GDPR, recital 10.
103 for more information on this subject, see the opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection of 28 December 2017 relating to the draft law on
creation of the National Commission for Data Protection and the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27
April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, relating to
amendment to the law of 25 March 2015 setting the salary regime and the conditions and procedures for the advancement of civil servants and repealing
the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, parliamentary document 7184/3.

104 See GDPR, recital 73.

Annual Report

111

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

i. General considerations

the authors of the bill wished to provide in an article of each of the amended laws, namely the new
article 16-3 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and the new article 13-3 of the amended law of December 7
2015, the scenarios (listed under letters (a) to (f)) allowing the CSSF and the Caa to limit the right to
informing data subjects when personal data is collected from
these, as provided for in article 13 of the GDPR. the new articles 16-4 to 16-7 of the first law cited, as well as
that the new articles 13-4 to 13-7 of the second, meanwhile, introduce limitations to other rights of
data subjects enshrined in the GDPR, namely the right to information of data subjects when
the personal data have not been collected from them (article 14 of the GDPR), the right of access
(Article 15 of the GDPR), the right to restriction of processing (Article 18 of the GDPR), and the right to object (Article 21
rGpD). Each of these provisions refers to the cases described in letters (a) to (f) of article 16-3 of
the first law or 13-3 of the second.

however, the CnpD notes that only the commentary on articles 16-3 of the amended law of 23 December 1998 and 13-3
of the amended law of December 7, 2015 explains in an exhaustive manner the need for each of these cases of
figure, referred to in letters (a) to (f) of said articles, in which the right to information could be limited by the
CSSF or by the Caa. the comments of articles 16-4 to 16-7 of the first law cited, and of articles 13-4 to 13-7
of the second, content themselves with describing in general terms the need to limit the other rights of the
rGpD, without providing specific explanations demonstrating the need for the different scenarios
in which each of these rights could be limited.

the CnpD regrets that the necessity and relevance of the different scenarios associated with each of the rights of
data subjects has not been further explained in the commentary to the articles.

for example, letters (f) of articles 16-3 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and 13-3 of the amended law of
7 December 2015 provide that the CSSF or the Caa could limit the right to information, if the full or immediate
exercising the rights of the data subject or the obligations of the CSSF or the Caa “harms the interests
rights protected from third parties”. According to the commentary of the articles, this exception could in particular be important
in the context of Art. 15 GDPR, i.e. the right of access, e.g. to protect the interests of a third party, who
disclosed sensitive information to the CSSF (such as a whistleblower)105. however, the provision in question concerns
Article 13 and not Article 15 of the GDPR. The latter already has the right to obtain a copy
must not prejudice the rights and freedoms of others.

moreover, with regard to letter (b) of the same articles, the CnpD includes from the commentary of the articles
that the authors of the bill mainly target the right to information of the persons concerned and the
right of access in very specific cases, mainly justified by "the impact of a communication of certain

105 bill n°7373, doc. speak. 7373/00, p. 18.

annual report 112 2019 cnpd

information to the data subject on the proper functioning of the markets or the financial stability, or even the
public security and public order in the event of a major crisis, if such information is concretely likely to
create this risk (for example a “bank run”)”106. while it understands this justification, the Cnpd suggests
limit this case to articles 16-3 to 16-5 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and 13-3 to 13-5 of the law
amended of December 7, 2015, although they do not refer to the right to restriction of processing or the right to object.
it also recommends justifying these cases in the body of the text of the bill, in order to
circumscribe the scope of this limitation.

Finally, the CnpD suggests replacing the wording “private interest” used in letters (a) and (b) of the same
articles by the wording "the interests or rights and freedoms thereof" and to add "public" between
“interest” and “pursued by the CSSF”, in order to align the terminology of the bill with the terminology used
by the GDPR.

ii. The data processed by the CSSF (article 16-1 of the amended law of 23 December 1998, as inserted by the
bill) and by the CAA (article 13-1 of the amended law of 7 December 2015, as inserted by the bill
of law)

According to the comments of the articles, the data which are processed are "essentially the indications referred to on
the identity papers of the person concerned, the data normally entered on a curriculum vitae,
certain information on assets (account numbers, account balance, etc.) as well as data on
personal and professional background of the person concerned (…)”.

neither the articles of the bill, nor the commentary to the articles mention the particular categories of
personal data. In accordance with Article 9 of the GDPR, the processing relating to categories
specific personal data is prohibited, unless one of the conditions indicated in paragraph 2
of that Article is fulfilled, for example if the processing is necessary for reasons of important public interest, on
the basis of the law of the union or the law of a Member State which must be proportionate to the objective pursued, respect
the essence of the right to data protection and provide for appropriate and specific measures for safeguarding
the fundamental rights and interests of the data subject (Art. 9 para. 2 letter (g) GDPR).

the CnpD also recalls that the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions
and infringements must be authorized by Union law or by the law of a Member State which provides guarantees
appropriate for the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

however, it does not know whether European or national legislative provisions allow the CSSF or the Caa to
process special categories of data within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR, and whether appropriate safeguards are
provided for in these legislative provisions in accordance with the requirements of paragraph 2 letter (g) of this article.

106 bill n°7373, doc. speak. 7373/00, p. 17.

Annual Report

113

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

for example, with regard to criminal records, the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 23 July 2016 setting the
list of administrations and legal persons governed by public law who may request bulletin n°2 or n°3 from the register
with the written or electronic consent of the person concerned authorizes the CSSF to receive, on request and
with the express agreement in writing or electronically of the person concerned a criminal record “to assess
compliance with the condition of professional integrity, in accordance with the special laws that attribute this
jurisdiction over the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier or the European Central Bank” (Article
1, point 5). the Caa, for its part, may receive it "for the examination of any application for approval addressed to a
service within its jurisdiction" (Article 1, point 6).
 
iii. Processing for a purpose other than that for which the data was collected by the CSSF (article 16-2
of the amended law of 23 December 1998, as inserted by the bill) and by the CAA (article 13-2 of the
amended law of 7 December 2015, as inserted by the bill)

the new article 16-2 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and the new article 13-2 of the amended law of
7 December 2015, as inserted by the draft law, aim to allow the CSSF and the Caa to process data
of a personal nature for purposes other than those for which the data was collected in cases
specific.

According to article 5, paragraph 1, letter (b) of the GDPR, the data must be collected for purposes
determined, explicit and legitimate, and not further processed in a manner inconsistent with these
purposes (principle of purpose limitation). According to its article 6, paragraph 4, the personal data
may nevertheless be processed for a purpose other (even incompatible) than that for which they were
collected initially, on the basis of the consent of the person concerned or on the basis of the law of the union or of
Member State, which constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to guarantee
the purposes referred to in article 23, paragraph 1 of the GDPR

the CnpD thus regrets that the authors of the bill did not explain in a more precise and concrete manner
the need for provisions relating to subsequent processing, which allow the CSSF and the Caa to process the
data for a purpose other than that for which the data was originally collected. indeed, as
as specified by the Irish supervisory authority (Data Protection Commission), in its guidance relating to Article
23 of the GDPR, “[a] proposed measure should be supported by evidence describing the problem to be addressed
by the measure, how it will be addressed by the measure, and why existing or less intrusive measures cannot
sufficiently address it”107. any exception must be necessary and proportional to the missions of the
CSSF or Caa.

thus, in the absence of a more precise delimitation of the categories of data that could be subject to
further processing, and more precise explanations as to the necessity and proportionality of this

107 Data protection Commission Ireland, limiting Data Subject rights and the application of article 23 of the General Data protection regulation,

https://www.dataprotection.ie/en/individuals/know-your-rights/restriction-individual-rights-certain-circumstances-article-23-gdpr

annual report 114 2019 cnpd

treatment in the commentary to the articles, the CnpD is not in a position to assess the compliance of the
practical implementation of these provisions in the GDPR, while the provision under consideration is too general
and vague.

Regardless of the compatibility of the new treatment with the initial treatment, this new treatment must
meet GDPR requirements. As stated in Recital 50 of the GDPR, “[i]n any event,
the application of the principles set out in these regulations and, in particular, the information of the person
data subject about those other purposes and about their rights, including the right to object to processing, should
be assured”.

thus, any processing of data for a purpose other than that for which the data was collected must respect
the principles of the GDPR, such as the principle of data minimization and the obligation to include
the processing in the register of processing activities of the CSSF or the Caa.

Like its German counterpart, the CnpD suggests including in the provisions under review a guarantee
further providing that further processing can only take place if the public interest pursued by
the authority, namely the CSSF or the Caa, takes precedence over the rights and interests of the data subjects108.

As to the cases in which the data may be processed for purposes other than those for which they were
been collected, letter (b) would allow subsequent processing to ensure the exercise of the CSSF's or the
Caa as well as compliance with the resulting obligations on the part of the CSSF or the Caa, "including in matters
cooperation with other institutions, authorities, bodies or national, foreign, European or
international organizations, as provided for in the sectoral laws governing the said missions”. the National Commission
considers that the inclusion of the words "including" does not allow a sufficient delimitation of the situations in
which the data may be subject to further processing. indeed, this formulation encompasses all the
missions and obligations of the CSSF and the Caa, including the scenarios listed in the articles under review. He
should therefore either list more precisely the missions and obligations of the CSSF and the Caa in
under which the data could be processed for further purposes, or to delete these words from the
arrangement.

with regard to letters (b) and (c), the cnpD notes that specific sectoral laws generally contain
provisions relating to cooperation between the CSSF or the Caa and other institutions, authorities, bodies and
domestic and foreign organizations. These laws and their implementing measures should refer to the provisions
legal rules governing this cooperation as well as the legal basis for the transfer.

the CnpD also recalls that data transfers to third countries must be carried out in accordance with
chapter V of the GDPR.

108 Die Bundesbeauftragte für den Datenschutz und die Informationsfreiheit, positionspapier zum entwurf eines Gesetzes zur anpassung des Datenschutzrechts an die

Verordnung (eu) 2016/679 und zur umsetzung der richtlinie (eu) 2016/680, 3 March 2017, p. 10-12.

Annual Report

115

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

As for letter (d), the commentary to the articles does not specify the need to process data at
personal nature to develop, control and modify the internal operating procedures of the CSSF
and Caa. in the case of automated procedures, as referred to in the German text of which
the authors of the bill were inspired109, the CnpD recommends providing, like the said German text,
that the data is only used for the purposes of development, control and modification of the
internal procedures and are erased within one year after the end of the development, control or
of change.

As for letters (d) and (e), the CnpD wonders about the meaning of the wording “personal data not
pseudonymised”. indeed, it is obvious that "non-pseudonymized" data is data "to be
personal character”. Why then not use the GDPR formulation of "personal data
staff " ? furthermore, it should be remembered that pseudonymised data is also data
of a personal nature, if they can "be attributed to a natural person through the use of information
additional” (recital 26 of the rGpD).

the CnpD also questions the relevance of the reference to the GDPR at the beginning of articles 16-2 of the amended law
of December 23, 1998 and 13-2 of the amended law of December 7, 2015 (both beginning with these terms:
“without prejudice to Article 6, paragraph (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (…)”). indeed, the said article of
GDPR applies in any case to any processing for a purpose other than that for which the data was
been collected. the National Commission therefore understands that Articles 16-2 of the amended law of 23 December
1998 and 13-2 of the amended law of December 7, 2015 are understood to be in accordance with or in application (and not “without
harm”) of article 6, paragraph (4) of the GDPR.
 
Finally, to ensure better consistency between the vocabulary used in this bill and that
of the GDPR, the CnpD proposes to amend the title of article 13-2 of the amendment of December 7, 2015, as inserted
by the bill and to rename it "processing for a purpose other than that for which the data was
collected”.

iv. Limitation of the right to information by the CSSF (articles 16-3 and 16-4 of the amended law of 23 December
1998, as inserted by the bill) and by the CAA (articles 13-3 and 13-4 of the amended law of 7
December 2015, as inserted by the bill)

the articles under review aim to limit the obligation of the CSSF and the Caa to provide data subjects
certain information relating to data processing. Contained in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter (a) of the
GDPR, the principle of transparency constitutes a fundamental aspect of the principles relating to processing110. This
information is often the first contact between the controller and the data subject, whether
either in the context of direct collection or in the context of indirect collection. thus, “[his] objective

109 bill n°7373, doc. speak. 7373/00, p. 16
110 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Guidelines on Transparency within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, adopted on 11 April 2018,

available at https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=622227, p. 5.

annual report 116 2019 cnpd

first is to create confidence in the processes applicable to citizens by enabling them to understand
and, if necessary, to challenge said processes”111.

As the limitations of the rights of data subjects must not go beyond what is strictly
necessary, the CnpD welcomes the clarification made in articles 16-3 and 16-4 of the amended law of 23 December
1998 and Articles 13-3 and 13-4 of the amended law of 7 December 2015, according to which the CSSF and the Caa do not
cannot make use of the exceptions, unless they can demonstrate that the public interest pursued by these
authorities take precedence over the interests of the persons concerned. in order to remind that exceptions cannot be
provided for by national law only if necessary and proportionate in a democratic society, the
CnpD recommends inserting identical wording in the provisions relating to the obligation to inform
in case of direct collection. It should be remembered that this assessment must be recorded in writing in accordance with
article 16-8, paragraph (3) of the amended law of 23 December 1998 and article 13-8 paragraph (3) of the law
amended on December 7, 2015

However, the National Commission wonders about the formulations used in letter (a), namely the exercise
missions and powers, and to the letter (b), namely the stability of the banking and financial system or
markets, the maintenance of public order or public safety. paragraph 1 of letter (a) and the comments of
articles contain an explanation of the situations covered by the provisions. thus in the context of letter (a),
this exception mainly concerns the controls, investigations and sanction procedures of the CSSF and the Caa,
as well as the preparatory acts for such investigations112. in order to limit the limitations of rights to what is strictly necessary,
it is important to define more precisely the cases in which the rights of data subjects
can be limited.
 
the CnpD still wonders about the need to limit the right to information of the persons concerned, if the full
or immediate exercise of the rights of the data subject or the obligations of the CSSF or the Caa “affects
to protected legitimate interests of third parties”113, if the data is collected directly from the person
concerned. indeed, if the data subject transmits the data directly to the CSSF and the Caa, the CnpD
is surprised by the fact that the communication of information relating to the processing could harm the interests
legitimate third parties. As the commentary to the articles does not specify either the legitimate interests or the third parties concerned, the
CnpD wonders if this provision is limited to what is strictly necessary. Without further details
and given the importance that the GDPR gives to the right to information for data subjects, the
CnpD considers it necessary to remove these provisions from the bill.
 
the limitation of the right to information of the persons concerned also appears in article 16-4 of the amended law
of December 23, 1998 and Article 13-4 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, as inserted by the bill,
which refer to the case of personal data that has not been collected from the data subject.
As the authors are particularly targeting data from whistleblowing hotlines, the

111 Same.
112 bill n°7373, doc. speak. 7373/00, p. 11-12.
113 letter (f) of article 16-3 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and letter (f) of article 13-3 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, as inserted by the draft

of law.

Annual Report

117

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Commission takes the liberty of recalling Opinion No. 1/2006 of the “Article 29” Working Group, which specifies that the provision
relating to the information to be provided to data subjects, when their personal data is collected
with a third party and not directly with them, applies when an informant makes a report
concerning a third person and provides personal data relating to the latter. the person
the subject of an alert should therefore be informed as soon as possible after the registration of the
data about it. while notification may be delayed if there is a serious risk that would compromise the
ability of the body, in this case the CSSF and the Caa, to effectively investigate the alleged facts, which
case could be covered by the exception provided for in letter (a).

v. Limitation of the right of access by the CSSF (article 16-5 of the amended law of 23 December 1998, as inserted
by the bill) and by the CAA (article 13-5 of the amended law of 7 December 2015, as inserted by the
law Project)

article 16-5 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and article 13-5 of the amended law of December 7, 2015
intend to allow the CSSF and the Caa to limit the right of access of data subjects.

the CnpD notes that the authors of the draft intended to specify that the limitation provided for by these articles does not
as paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 15 of the GDPR. such clarification suggests that the right to obtain a
copy of the data undergoing processing (article 15, paragraph 3 of the GDPR) would not, for its part,
the subject of this limitation.

the National Commission questions the rationale for allowing the CSSF and the Caa to limit or defer
confirmation to the data subject that personal data is being processed and access to said
data, as well as to limit or defer the transmission of all or part of the information referred to in Article 15,
paragraphs 1 and 2 of the GDPR, but not to limit or defer the right of the data subject to obtain
copy of the data being processed.

If this is a deliberate choice by the authors of the bill, the National Commission would have difficulty in perceiving the
real added value of the exceptions referred to in article 16-5 of the amended law of 23 December 1998 and in article 13-5
of the amended law of 7 December 2015, while the data subject will in any event have the right
to obtain a copy of the data processed by the CSSF or the Caa concerning it (except, of course, if this right
to obtain a copy would infringe the rights and freedoms of others, in accordance with Article 15 paragraph (4) of the
rGpD).

Should it on the contrary be understood that letters (c) of the aforementioned provisions also extend to the right for
the data subject to obtain a copy of the data being processed? If that were the case, the
National Commission would consider it necessary, for the sake of legal certainty, to explicitly add a

annual report 118 2019 cnpd

reference to paragraph (3) of Article 15 of the GDPR in these provisions, in order to indicate that this aspect of the right
access is also covered by the exceptions.

vi. Limitation of the right to limitation of processing by the CSSF (article 16-6 of the amended law of 23 December
1998, as inserted by the bill) and by the CAA (article 13-6 of the amended law of 7 December 2015,
as inserted by the bill)

the articles under review refer to article 16-6 of the amended law of 23 December 1998 and to article 13-6 of the
amended law of 7 December 2015 to set out the scenarios that would allow the CSSF and the Caa to limit the
right to restriction of processing, also adding that the exceptions only apply to the extent that
the public interest pursued by the CSSF or by the Caa “not to provide the data subject with this information
takes precedence over the private interest of the person concerned”. the commentary of the articles does not provide any relative precision
the necessity of these exceptions to the right to limitation.

It should be noted that in any case, the right to restriction of processing cannot be exercised by the
data subject only if his request is based on one of the hypotheses exhaustively listed in Article
18, paragraph 1 of the GDPR. moreover, even in the event of exercise of the right to limit processing, the
data may be processed without limitation by the controller under the conditions set out in
paragraph 2 of that article, for example, if the processing is necessary for important reasons of public interest
of the union or of a member state.

in the absence of additional justification, the CnpD therefore wonders what the real added value of the article is
16-6 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and article 13-6 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, then
that the application of article 18 of the GDPR could already obstruct, in most cases, the exercise of the right
to the limitation of the processing carried out by the CSSF or the Caa.

vii. Limitation of the right to object to processing by the CSSF (article 16-7 of the amended law of 23 December
1998, as inserted by the bill) and by the CAA (article 13-7 of the amended law of 7 December 2015,
as inserted by the bill)

Articles 16-7 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and 13-7 of the amended law of December 7, 2015
allow the CSSF and the Caa to limit the right to oppose the processing carried out by these authorities
concerning, specifying that these limitations only apply insofar as the public interest pursued by the
CSSF or by the Caa “to proceed with the processing takes precedence over the private interest of the data subject”.

In the commentary to the articles, the authors of the bill specify that these articles “concretize the exception
provided for in the second sentence of article 21 of regulation (eu) 2016/679 which allows not to follow up on

Annual Report

119

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

this request when there are legitimate and compelling reasons for the processing which must prevail over the
interests and the rights and freedoms of the person concerned, for the recognition, exercise or defense of rights in
justice ". the National Commission notes that the right to object to processing cannot be exercised by the
data subject on the basis of Article 21 of the GDPR only "for reasons relating to his particular situation".
As with the other limitations, this is therefore a case-by-case analysis. the CnpD thus does not perceive the
real added value of the articles under review compared to the second sentence of article 21, paragraph (1) of the GDPR.

viii. Guarantees (articles 16-8 and 16-9 of the amended law of December 23, 1998, as inserted by the draft

of law, and articles 13-8 and 13-9 of the amended law of December 7, 2015, as inserted by the bill)

In general, the National Commission welcomes the substantial guarantees provided by Articles
16-8 and 16-9 of the amended law of 23 December 1998 and by articles 13-8 and 13-9 of the amended law of 7
December 2015.

indeed, as more fully detailed in its opinion of March 29, 2018 (deliberation no. 219/2018), in the event of
implementation of the derogations of article 23 of the GDPR in a national law, it is essential to provide in
counterpart of the appropriate guarantees so as not to call into question the essence of the fundamental rights of
persons concerned.

in this case, article 16-8 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and article 13-8 of the amended law of December 7
2015 provide in particular that the limitation of rights would be limited in time, and that the CSSF or the Caa may
justify and inform the person concerned of the existence of this limitation as well as the possibility of introducing
a complaint to the CnpD and to lodge a judicial appeal.

the same articles, as well as article 16-9 of the amended law of 23 December 1998 and article 13-9 of the law
amended on December 7, 2015, however provide for certain exceptions to these guarantees “when these
information (…) may harm the purpose of the processing, the limitation or the delay, in particular when these
information violates the professional secrecy to which [the CSSF and the Caa] are bound pursuant to Article
7, or when this information prevents [the CSSF or the Caa] from pursuing an administrative procedure or
jurisdiction to which [the CSSF or the Caa] [are] a party”. furthermore, the National Commission takes note
the vague wording of the bill, according to which the exercise of limited or deferred human rights
concerned could find an obstacle when this would contravene the professional secrecy to which both
CSSF agents than Caa agents. while the CnpD understands the rationale for these exceptions to
guarantees, she wonders about the inclusion of the term “in particular”, which suggests that other scenarios
could allow the CSSF and the Caa to obstruct the rights and guarantees provided for by the articles in
question. given that these guarantees aim to provide a basic protection base for persons
data subjects in cases where their rights enshrined in the GDPR would be limited, it is appropriate to restrict the

annual report 120 2019 cnpd

exceptions to what is strictly necessary. Therefore, if the authors of the bill intend to target other exceptions, the CnpD
considers it necessary to include them in the text of these articles.

in addition, the National Commission notes that the CSSF and the Caa must record “in writing the reasons of fact and
right on which its decision to limit or defer the rights of the data subject or its own
obligations…” (article 16-8, paragraph (3) of the amended law of 23 December 1998 and article 13-8 paragraph
(3) amended law of December 7, 2015). This information must be made available to the CnpD,
“without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy” of the CSSF and the Caa. the CnpD does not however see
how the obligation of professional secrecy of these authorities could impede its legal missions of
controls, which consist in particular of verifying the legality of the processing carried out by the data controllers
of the private and public sector. Without further explanation from the authors of the bill, the CnpD therefore considers that
these terms should be deleted from the text of the bill. moreover, it should be recalled that the agents of
the National Commission are themselves subject to professional secrecy, in accordance with Article 42 of the Act
of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the regime
general on data protection according to which “without prejudice to article 23 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
all persons exercising or having exercised an activity for the CnpD are bound by professional secrecy and
liable to the penalties provided for in article 458 of the Penal Code in the event of violation of this secrecy”.

in addition, the only restrictions on the CnpD’s supervisory powers conferred on it by article 58 of the rGpD and
relating to professional secrecy are those exhaustively listed in Article 67 of the aforementioned law of 1 August
2018. In the opinion of the National Commission, the professional secrecy to which the CSSF and the Caa are subject cannot
therefore not obstruct the CnpD's legal control missions.

the CnpD wonders about the use of the terms “this information”, whereas the previous paragraph concerns both
the factual and legal grounds on which the decision of the CSSF or the Caa to restrict the rights of the
data subjects, that the precision of the end date of the limitation. For the sake of legal certainty, it
should be specified that the CnpD can receive communication of all information concerning the limitation
a right of a data subject.

in addition, article 16-9 of the amended law of December 23, 1998 and article 13 paragraph (9) of the amended law
of 7 December 2015 intend to allow the limited or deferred rights of the data subject to be exercised
by the CnpD, which would act as a sort of intermediary between the person concerned on the one hand, and
the CSSF or the Caa on the other hand. in the eyes of the CnpD, this mechanism constitutes an appropriate guarantee in order to
compensate for the absence or limitation of the “direct” rights of citizens vis-à-vis the CSSF or the Caa. Note
that an "indirect right of access" already existed under the amended law of 2002, to guarantee
data subjects that an independent supervisory authority, in this case the CnpD, can verify the legality
of the treatment114.

114 Cf. article 29 paragraph (5) of the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data.

Annual Report

121

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

ix. Article iii

the comments set out in sections I to VIII of this notice are also applicable to articles 105 and
154 of the amended law of 18 December 2018 relating to the failure of credit institutions and certain
investment firms. the National Commission notes in particular that the commentary to the articles does not specify
not the need for limitations for the Luxembourg Deposit Guarantee Fund and for the Resolution Fund
luxembourg.

x. Final considerations

while the CnpD can understand the reason for the limitations to the rights of data subjects mentioned
above in order not to compromise an investigation or control by the CSSF or the Caa, it wonders if it
there is no need to specify that they do not apply to data that are unrelated to the subject of the investigation or the
control justifying these limitations. in this regard, it refers to the opinion of its Belgian counterparts of 11 April 2018115,
which provide a clear delineation of the material scope of any exception that implements the article
23 of the GDPR in the applicable sectoral legislation, for example by proposing a formulation of the type: “these
derogations apply to the extent that the application of this right would harm the needs of control, investigation or
preparatory acts or risks violating the secrecy of the criminal investigation. the restriction referred to in paragraph 1,
paragraph 1, does not apply to data that is unrelated to the purpose of the investigation or control justifying the refusal or the
restricted access”.

moreover, neither the bill nor the commentary to the articles addresses the potential risks to the rights and freedoms
data subjects whose data could be processed by the CSSF or by the Caa. in order to ensure the
compliance with Article 23 paragraph (2) letter (g), the risks should be identified more clearly than the authors
of the bill wish to take action under the bill.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on April 5, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection,

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

115 Data Protection Authority (formerly Privacy Commission), Opinion 33/2018 of 11 April 2018, available at

https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/avis_33_2018.pdf, p. 42.

annual report 122 2019 cnpd

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the use of the
municipal video surveillance.

Deliberation n°39/2019 of May 10, 2019

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1st letter c) of regulation n°2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation
(hereinafter referred to as “GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the
National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on data protection, the
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the
CnpD”) “advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other
institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and
freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.

in view of the advisory mission assigned to it, but also following the request of the Minister
of the Interior concerning the conditions of installation of video surveillance cameras within the municipalities and
in response to questions from the mayors on this subject, the National Commission issues a detailed opinion on the
use of video surveillance by municipalities.
 
As a preliminary point, the CnpD notes that the municipalities, in their requests for information on the installation of
video surveillance devices in public spaces, refer to the old data protection regime.
a brief look back is therefore necessary in order to understand the ins and outs of the legal framework
currently in force.

the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel, in particular Articles 10 and 11, provided specific provisions relating to surveillance.
Article 14 of this law provided for the obligation to request authorization from the CnpD before
all installations of video surveillance devices. Article 17 of the same law was the legal basis for the
surveillance of public space carried out by the Grand Ducal police.

today, the seizure of the CnpD by the Minister of the Interior comes the day after the entry into
application of the new “data protection package” consisting of general regulations for the protection of
data116 (hereinafter referred to as “GDPR”) and a directive relating to data protection in the fields
relating to the police and justice117 (hereinafter referred to as “the police-justice directive”). These two texts have fields
distinct but nevertheless complementary applications.

116 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data

personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, OJ l119, 4.5.2016, p.1-88.

117 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l119, 4.5.2016, p. 89-131.

Annual Report

123

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

the GDPR is directly applicable in Luxembourg legislation. the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime
data has repealed the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing
personal data. the new legislation has removed the obligation for those responsible for
processing of personal data to request authorization from the CnpD before installation
CCTV devices. municipalities, as data controllers118 are now required
to respect the principles119 and obligations enshrined in the GDPR when setting up data protection systems
video surveillance.

in this regard and following the entry into force of the new legislation, the CnpD published in august 2018
video surveillance guidelines (hereinafter referred to as “the guidelines”). Without wanting
claim to be exhaustive, the CnpD has recalled certain principles and certain obligations applicable in terms of
video surveillance. therefore, municipalities can refer to the guidelines, a copy of which is
provided in appendix120 to this notice, in order to have an overview of the applicable rules in this area.

in order to understand the issues raised by the installation and operation of video surveillance devices
within the municipalities and the problems arising from them, it is necessary to make a distinction between the
places monitored on the one hand, and the purposes pursued by the data controller when using said
devices on the other hand. These issues and problems can be highlighted through three examples
developed below.

when a municipality wishes to monitor a building or other municipal facilities for the purpose of
protection of property and/or safety of users, such monitoring takes place within the framework of the missions
"classics" recognized to it. before the entry into application of the GDPR and under the aegis of the law of
2002, the CnpD authorized surveillance of these areas subject to compliance with certain conditions and
obligations. today, the municipality is required to respect the principles and obligations of the GDPR, which moreover,
have not changed from the previous legislation. for example, the CnpD considers that the installation
of a video surveillance device is in principle proportionate to the entrances and exits of buildings, to the
immediate surroundings of the latter, in storage premises, in delivery and loading areas121
etc the proportionality lies in the fact that the supervised areas are restricted and the people who
are present such as visitors, customers or employees, are not subject to surveillance
permed.

when a municipality wishes to install video surveillance devices within the public space, the area
monitored is in principle more extensive. the device's field of vision covers much larger surfaces
large such as public squares, parks, playgrounds open to all or even streets.
before the entry into application of the rGpD and in accordance with the law of 2002, the CnpD did not authorize the

118 a definition of a data controller is given in article 3. 7) of regulation (eu) 2016/679 of the european parliament and of the Council of 27 april
2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
directive 95/46/EC, OJ l119, 4.5.2016, p.1-88.

119 Ibid., article 5 et seq.
120 appendix I.
121 video surveillance guidelines, p.8.

annual report 124 2019 cnpd

surveillance of these areas considering that the protection of citizens' interests prevailed over the protection
property and the safety of users. with regard to playgrounds, in particular, the CnpD has always
considered that the installation and operation of video surveillance were an invasion of privacy since it
these were living, leisure and recreation spaces in which one could legitimately expect to
not to be filmed and constantly monitored during the time of presence in these spaces. Under the aegis of
current legal framework, the position of the CnpD remains in principle unchanged. In its guidelines and
in accordance with the rGpD, the CnpD considers that within these areas, the installation of cameras is
disproportionate to the aims pursued. in fact, the monitoring that emanates from it covers a number
large number of individuals circulating within the public space and this surveillance is not limited in
the weather.

in addition, the CnpD notes that it appears from the requests for advice from the municipalities that they wish
install video surveillance devices for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences. It appears
indeed that the latter intend to fight against acts of delinquency, vandalism etc., especially
more than some municipalities have expressed their wish to be connected to the VISupol system, operated by the police
grand-ducal currently limited to the sole territory of the City of Luxembourg. however, in such a hypothesis, it is a
other legal regime that applies to data protection. It is indeed the law of August 1, 2018
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in
criminal matters and matters of national security. This law transposes the aforementioned police-justice directive123
in national law.

in this regard, the National Commission for Data Protection issued an opinion on March 15, 2019 relating to the
video surveillance of public spaces and places for public security purposes124, a copy of which is also provided
in appendix125. This can be very useful for municipalities wishing to install a video surveillance device at
public safety purposes and should be read in conjunction with these discussions.

the CnpD wishes to draw attention to the fact that the purpose of the processing pursued by the data controller
treatment, in this case the municipality, must fall within the scope of the latter. As the
"Article 29" working group: "it will be necessary to take into account the public functions which cannot be exercised,
under the terms of the law, only by specific non-administrative bodies such as, in particular,
police bodies and/or the judicial authority”126. in other words, a municipality cannot exceed its
skills and install a video surveillance system for a purpose that falls within the competence of the police
grand ducal.

the CnpD notes however that if the municipal law and the law on the grand-ducal police highlight the
interactions between the police and the mayors, neither of them specify the competences of the mayors
in policing. indeed, the municipal law provides information on the attributions of the mayors127 and on the interaction

122 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security and amending certain laws.

123 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l119, 4.5.2016, p. 89-131.

124 opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to video surveillance of public spaces and places for public security purposes, Deliberation

n°36/2019 of March 15, 2019.

125 appendix II.
126 opinion 4/2004 of the “article 29” working party on the processing of personal data by means of video surveillance, p.14, available at

following: https://cnpd.public.lu/dam-assets/fr/publications/groupe-art29/wp089_fr.pdf

127 municipal law of 13 December 1988, article 67.
128 Ibid., article 68.

Annual Report

125

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

between the latter and the Grand Ducal police128. the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police129 (hereafter
referred to as the “grand-ducal police law”), for its part, also mentions the interactions between the police and the
municipal authorities. It mentions the close relations between the mayors and the directors of the regions.
police and heads of police stations. however, these legal provisions do not make it possible to delimit
clearly the powers of the mayors from those of the Grand Ducal police.

the CnpD also wishes to point out that such a lack of precision is combined with the absence of a legal basis
specific to video surveillance that does not meet the requirements of predictability and quality
of the law as enshrined in European Union law and the case law of the high courts
European131.

conclusion

In its aforementioned opinion of March 15, 2019, the CnpD came to the conclusion that, regardless of who is responsible
processing, whether it is a municipality or the Grand-Ducal police, the terms and conditions of
installation of video surveillance devices in public spaces and places for public security purposes
should be specified in a specific legal framework like in other European countries such as the
France, Belgium and Germany. In this context, she also welcomed the recent statement by the Minister of
internal security which considers “that it is appropriate to reflect on the establishment of a specific legal framework
for the future installation of surveillance cameras”132.

In the context of this opinion, the CnpD can only reiterate its recommendation to the government to introduce
meaning a specific legislative framework, which could integrate and clarify the interactions and respective competences
mayors and the Grand Ducal police.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on may 10, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection,

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

129 law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police and amending: 1° the Code of Criminal Procedure; 2° of the amended law of 9 December 2005 determining
the terms and conditions for the appointment of certain civil servants occupying managerial positions in the administrations and services of the State; 3° of the law
of 10 December 2009 relating to the hospitalization without their consent of people with mental disorders; 4° of the amended law of 25 March 2015
laying down the salary system and the terms and conditions of advancement of civil servants; 5° the law of 18 December 2015 relating to the reception of
applicants for international protection and temporary protection, and amending the amended law of 10 August 1991 on the legal profession; and repealing:
1° the law of 29 May 1992 relating to the Judicial Police Service and amending 1. the law of 23 July 1952 relating to the military organisation; 2. the code
criminal investigation; 3. the law of 16 April 1979 having as its object discipline in the Public Force; 2° the amended law of 31 May 1999 on the police and
the General Police Inspectorate.

130 Ibidem, Articles 35 and 36.
131 the developments concerning the criteria of predictability and quality of the law can be found in the opinion of the National Commission for the Protection
data relating to the video surveillance of public spaces and places for public security purposes, Deliberation n°36/2019 of March 15, 2019, pages 7 and
following.

132 Press release by the Ministry of Homeland Security dated 03/12/2019, available at:
 

https://gouvernement.lu/fr/actualites/toutes_actualites/communiques/2019/03-mars/12-bausch-videoprotection.html, last consulted on 12/03/2019.

annual report 126 2019 cnpd

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft
Law No. 7424 creating a common electronic transmission platform
security and modification: 1. of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 2. of the amended law of 5
July 2016 reorganizing the state intelligence service.

Deliberation n°40/2019 of June 5, 2019

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter c) of regulation (eu) 2016/679 of the European parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data
of a personal nature and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter:
“the GDPR”), each supervisory authority has, within the scope of the GDPR, the mission of
advise "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of rights and freedoms
natural persons with regard to the processing”. article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the
National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on data protection provides
specifically that the National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter: "the National Commission"
or “the CnpD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it by virtue of article 57 of the GDPR.

In accordance with article 8, point 3°, of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime, the CnpD has, within the framework
of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data
of a personal nature in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, in particular for the purpose of
“to advise the Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies on the subject of
legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data”.

by letter dated March 15, 2019, the Minister of Justice invited the National Commission to decide
about bill n°7424 creating a common secure electronic transmission platform
and amendment: 1. of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 2. of the amended law of 5 July 2016 reorganizing the
State Intelligence Service (hereinafter: “the Bill”).

It follows from the explanatory memorandum that the bill aims to establish a common platform and
single secure electronic transmission service used by the judicial authorities as well as the
State intelligence (hereinafter: "the platform"). According to the authors of the bill, the platform offers a
increased protection of the personal data of persons subject to tracking and surveillance measures
or control.

133 with regard to the respective scopes of the GDPR and the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, see in particular: D. Jeitz and t.a. larsen, "the future regime of
data protection in the judicial and police sectors”, Journal des tribunals luxembourg, n°54, 5 December 2017, pages 168-175.

Annual Report

127

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

the National Commission notes, however, that the draft law is silent on the technical measures and
organizational measures to be put in place to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the sensitivity of the
data transmitted via the platform, especially since the title of the bill announces the creation of a platform
secure electronics. Moreover, it regrets that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation which is supposed to define the
format and the methods of execution according to which the data collected are to be transmitted respectively to the
judicial authorities and the State Intelligence Service was not annexed to the bill.

the CnpD wishes to provide comments and reflections on the draft law, following the order of
writing the text.

i. Scope

Article 1 of the bill defines the scope of the text under examination by referring to several articles of the
Code of Criminal Procedure as well as article 7 of the amended law of July 5, 2016 on the organization of the Service
of State intelligence (hereinafter: "the law of July 5, 2016").

before looking into the technical means allowing the judicial authorities and the Intelligence Service to
the State to access data stored by public communication network or service providers
of electronic communications, the National Commission wishes to comment on the principle
even the storage and access to traffic and location data relating to communications
electronics.

To. article 43-1 of the code of criminal procedure

in the event of the disappearance of a person, article 43-1, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows officers
of the judicial police to carry out, on the instructions of the state prosecutor, the acts provided for in articles 31 to 41 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the acts provided for in the event of a flagrant crime or offence, for the purpose of discovering the
missing person.

however, contrary to what is indicated in Article 3, paragraph 1, point 1°, of the draft law, neither Article 43-1 nor the
articles 31 to 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure do not seem to provide for a “tracing procedure”.

for all practical purposes, the National Commission takes the liberty of referring to a judgment of the Court of Appeal of February 26, 2008
according to which “since the entry into force of article 67-1, tracking is reserved for the exclusive jurisdiction of the judge
instruction” so that article 67-1 “does not authorize judicial police officers, acting under the
powers which are specially conferred on them in respect of crimes and flagrant misdemeanors, to carry out such identification in the
title of Articles 33 and 31 of the [Code of Criminal Procedure (currently Code of Criminal Procedure)]”134.

134 Court of Appeal, Fifth Chamber, 26 February 2008, judgment 106/08 V.

annual report 128 2019 cnpd

in addition, the law of July 24, 2010 amending articles 5 and 9 of the amended law of May 30, 2005
concerning the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector and article 67-1
of the Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter: “the law of July 24, 2010”) amended, following the recommendation
formulated by the National Commission in its opinion of 26 April 2010135, paragraph 2 of Articles 5 and 9
of the amended law of 30 May 2005 “to ensure consistency with article 67-1 of the Code of instruction
criminal law under which the tracing of communications is only possible if ordered by the judge
instruction”136.

the CnpD therefore raises the question of the extent to which the bill is likely to apply to
measures ordered on the basis of article 43-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, respectively what is precisely
the “location procedure provided for by article 43-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure”.

b. articles 67-1 and 88-1 of the code of criminal procedure

Article 67-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure authorizes the investigating judge to have the data identified
call center of telecommunications facilities from or to which calls are made or have been
addressed as well as the location of the origin or destination of telecommunications.

Article 88-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for its part, provides in particular the possibility for the investigating judge
to order the surveillance and control of telecommunications as well as postal correspondence.

As part of the measures provided for in Articles 67-1 and 88-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the judicial authorities
may need to access traffic or location data that service providers or
operators are obliged to keep by virtue of articles 5 and 9 of the amended law of 30 May 2005 concerning
the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (hereinafter: “the amended law of 30
May 2005”).

the obligation to retain traffic and location data relating to electronic communications
was introduced into our national legislation by the amended law of 30 May 2005, on the basis of article 15,
paragraph 1 of Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 on the
processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the communications sector
(hereinafter: “Directive 2002/58/EC”).

Article 15(1) of Directive 2002/58/EC allows such a measure where such a limitation of
principles provided for in Articles 5,6,8 and 9 constitutes a necessary, appropriate and proportionate measure, within
of a democratic society, in particular to safeguard State security or ensure prevention, research,
detecting and prosecuting criminal offences.

135 Deliberation no. 85/2010 of 26 April 2010, point I. B. 2.: https://cnpd.public.lu/dam-assets/fr/decisions-avis/2010/retention-donnes/avis_CnpD_projet_loi_6113.pdf
136 bill n°6113/8, p. 2.

Annual Report

129

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

subsequently, the law of 24 July 2010 transposed directive 2006/24/EC of the European parliament and of the Council
of March 15, 2006 on the retention of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of services
publicly available electronic communications or public communications networks, and modifying
Directive 2002/58/EC (hereinafter: “Directive 2006/24/EC”) by amending the amended law of May 30, 2005.

However, by judgment of April 8, 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter: “the CJEU”) declared invalid
Directive 2006/24/EC in that the Union legislator exceeded the limits imposed by respect for the principle
proportionality with regard to Articles 7 (respect for private and family life), 8 (protection of personal data)
personal character) and 52, paragraph 1 (scope and interpretation of rights and principles), of the Charter of
fundamental rights of the European Union.

the ECJ criticizes in particular that:

• Directive 2006/24/Ce “generally covers any person and all means of communication
electronic data as well as all traffic data without any differentiation, limitation or
exception are made based on the objective of combating serious crimes”138;

• Directive 2006/24/EC “does not provide for any objective criteria making it possible to limit the access of national authorities
authorities to the data and their subsequent use for the purposes of prevention, detection or prosecution
criminal proceedings concerning offenses which may, in view of the scale and seriousness of the interference with the rights
fundamental principles enshrined in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter, be considered serious enough to
justify such interference”139;

• with regard to the rules aimed at the security and protection of stored data, the directive
2006/24/This “does not provide sufficient safeguards, as required by Article 8 of the Charter, allowing
to ensure effective protection of the data stored against the risk of misuse as well as against any
unlawful access and use of such data”140.

Following the aforementioned judgment, the Minister of Justice requested the opinion of the CnpD on the conformity of the amended law of 30
May 2005 and Articles 67-1, 88-2 and 88-4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the requirements laid down by the judgment
of the CJEU of 8 April 2014. In its opinion of 13 May 2014, the National Commission recommended modifying
the national provisions in order to bring them into conformity with the requirements laid down by that judgment141. the CnpD reiterated
these observations in its opinion on draft law no. 6763 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure
and the amended law of 30 May 2005142.

Subsequently, the judgment of the CJEU of 21 December 2016143 once again highlighted the need to modify the
national provisions by ruling that:

137 CJue, 8 April 2014, Digital rights ltd, joined cases C-293/12 and C-594/12.
138 Ibid., paragraph 57.
139 Ibid., paragraph 60.
140 Ibid., paragraph 66.
141 Deliberation n°214/2014 of 13 May 2014: https://cnpd.public.lu/dam-assets/fr/decisions-avis/2014/Vorratsdatenspeicherung/214-2014-Deliberation-Ministere-

Justice-avis-loi-modifiee-30-mai-2005-judgment-CJue-8-april-2014-joined-cases-C-293-12-and-C-594-12-conservation-data.pdf

142 Deliberation no. 228/2015 of 19 June 2015: https://cnpd.public.lu/dam-assets/fr/decisions-avis/2015/communications-electroniques/228_2015_Ministere-

Justice_avis-draft-loi-modif-loi-electronic-communications.pdf

143 CJue, 21 December 2016, tele2 Sverige aB, joined cases C-203/15 and C-698/15.

annual report 130 2019 cnpd

• Article 15(1) of Directive 2002/58/EC “must be interpreted as precluding a
national regulations providing, for the purposes of the fight against crime, for the widespread retention and
undifferentiated from all traffic data and location data of all subscribers
and registered users regarding all means of electronic communication”;

• Article 15(1) of Directive 2002/58/EC “must be interpreted as precluding a
national regulations governing the protection and security of traffic data and personal data
location, in particular the access of the competent national authorities to the stored data, without limiting,
in the context of the fight against crime, this access for the sole purpose of fighting serious crime, without
submit said access to prior control by a court or an independent administrative authority, and
without requiring that the data in question be kept on the territory of the union”.

the CnpD therefore considers that it is necessary to modify and adapt the national legislative framework in order to ensure that it is
in line with ECJ case law.

This remark also applies to article 7 of the law of 5 July 2016 insofar as the Intelligence Service
of the State may be required to access the traffic and location data retained pursuant to Articles 5 and
9 of the amended law of 30 May 2005.

with regard to the reference to article 88-1, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it would be
appropriate to clarify whether the bill only applies to the surveillance and monitoring of telecommunications
as well as postal correspondence, or also to the other measures provided for by this provision, to
know the sound system and the fixing of images of certain places or vehicles as well as the capture of data
computers.

ii. Definitions

Article 2, point 4°, of the bill provides a definition of the concept of “operator” by referring to the definition
provided for by the amended law of 27 February 2011 on electronic communications networks and services according to
which the "operator" is a notified company which provides or is authorized to provide a communications network
public or an associated resource.

thus, the concept of “operator” is used in article 3 of the draft law while articles 4 and 5 employ
the notions of “telecommunications operators” and “telecommunications service providers”,
respectively “post and telecommunications operator”.

the National Commission wonders why the bill uses different terminologies.

Annual Report

131

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Assuming that the intention of the authors of the bill is to use the same terms as those currently
used in articles 67-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and 7 of the law of July 5, 2016, the National Commission
makes it possible to refer to its opinion on draft law no. 6921 in which it recommended that the terminology
used in the Code of Criminal Procedure is aligned with that already used in the legislation
European and national144.

Indeed, the amended law of 30 May 2005, which transposes several European directives, refers to operators (of
network) and service providers (electronic communications).

the CnpD therefore suggests using standardized terminology in the various texts.

iii. Common platform for secure electronic transmission

As a preliminary point, the National Commission notes that the numbering of the paragraphs of Article 3 of the draft
law seems wrong. In the rest of this opinion, it will use a continuous numbering of the paragraphs.

To. as to the qualification of controller and processor

article 3, paragraph 2, of the draft law provides that the platform is hosted by the Center des technologies
de l’information de l’État (hereafter: “the CtIe”) which ensures its operational management.

paragraph 3 of the same article continues that the CtIe has the quality of subcontractor without however specifying which
authority(ies) is/are to be considered as controller.

In the commentary to the articles, the authors of the bill indicate that "[t]he judicial authorities and the Service
State intelligence are data controllers for each personal data
concerned ". the National Commission considers that this wording may lead to confusion.

indeed, the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security (hereinafter: “the law
of 1 August 2018"), transposing Directive (eu) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April
2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigation and
prosecution in this regard or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI defines the controller as “the competent authority which,
alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data
staff ".

144 Deliberation n°147/2016 of 12 February 2016, point 1: https://cnpd.public.lu/dam-assets/fr/decisions-avis/2016/lutte-terrorisme/147-2016-pl6921.pdf

annual report 132 2019 cnpd

data subject, on the other hand, means the identified or identifiable natural person to whom the
personal data relate to145. It therefore does not seem appropriate to provide that the authorities
judiciary and the State Intelligence Service are responsible for the processing of the data which
"concern". the CnpD understands that each organization is responsible for the part of the data processing
which concerns him.

the processor, on the other hand, is defined as “the natural or legal person, public authority, service or
another body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller”.
article 21 of the law of 1 August 2018 deals more specifically with the relationship between the controller
and the subcontractor.

the determination of the data controller is of particular importance insofar as it is incumbent
in particular the controller to ensure compliance with the principles listed in Article 3 of the law of the 1st
August 2018 and to ensure the rights of data subjects in accordance with articles 11 and following of the law of
August 1, 2018.

the National Commission therefore recommends that the draft law clearly determine which authority(ies) act(s)
as controller. Article 20 of the law of August 1, 2018 also provides for the possibility that
several competent authorities act as joint controllers.

b. as to the elements transmitted to the operators

It is apparent from Article 3(4) of the draft law and the commentary thereto that operators do not
no longer see the decisions ordering detection, control or surveillance measures communicated, but
only the elements and technical information necessary for the execution of the measures.

the National Commission regrets that the draft law does not further specify which elements and information
techniques will be forwarded by the judicial authorities and the State Intelligence Service.

moreover, the National Commission wonders whether the fact of no longer communicating the prescription itself
does not unduly affect the right of operators to appeal, where appropriate, against the decisions
ordering detection, control or surveillance measures.

vs. regarding access log files

According to Article 3, paragraph 5, of the draft law, “[t]he information relating to the transmissions referred to in
paragraph (4), the person who carried out the consultation, the information consulted, the criteria for

145 article 2, paragraph 1, point 1°, of the law of 1 August 2018.
146 article 2, paragraph 1, point 9°, of the law of 1 August 2018.

Annual Report

133

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

research, the date and time of the consultation as well as the reason for the consultation are kept for 12 months from
from the day on which the measure was carried out”.

the commentary to the articles specifies that these access log files (hereinafter: "log files") are
necessary to verify the legality of the operations carried out.

the National Commission is pleased that the draft law provides for the principle of control of access to data by the
journaling bias. however, it wonders whether the retention period provided for in the bill complies
the requirements laid down by the ECJ in its judgment of 7 May 2009147.

in fact, the persons concerned have, by virtue of the right of access, in particular the right to obtain from the controller
the processing of information relating to the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data to be
personal character have been communicated.

In the case that gave rise to the aforementioned judgment of 7 May 2009, the person concerned wanted to know the identity
third parties to whom information concerning them had been communicated during the two
years preceding their request as well as the content of the information transmitted to them. It appears from the judgment
mentioned above that the communications of data are recorded using an automated system but that the data
requested by the person concerned, prior to the year preceding his request, were automatically
erased, which would be in accordance with applicable national law.

According to the CJEU, “[i]t is up to the Member States to set a retention period for this information [on the
recipients or categories of recipients of the data as well as the content of the information communicated]
as well as correlative access to it which constitute a fair balance between, on the one hand, the interest of the person
concerned to protect his private life, in particular by means of the means of intervention and recourse provided for by the
Directive [95/46/EC] and, on the other hand, the burden that the obligation to keep this information represents for the
controller”148.

the Court concluded that “[r]egulations limiting the retention of information about recipients or
categories of data recipients and the content of the data transmitted for a period of one year and limiting
correlatively access to this information, while the basic data is kept much more
a long time, cannot constitute a fair balance of the interests and obligations in question, unless it is demonstrated
that a longer retention of this information would constitute an excessive burden for the person responsible for the
treatment”149.

moreover, the erasure of log files after 12 months is likely to make legal proceedings impossible.
relating to breaches of professional secrecy. indeed, both Articles 67-1 and 88-4 of the Code of Procedure

147 CJue, 7 May 2009, case C-553/07.
148 Ibid., paragraph 70.
149 Ibid.

annual report 134 2019 cnpd

civil law that article 7 of the law of July 5, 2016 provides that “[a]ny person who, by reason of his function, has
knowledge of the measure or lends its assistance thereto, is bound to maintain secrecy. any breach of secrecy is
punished in accordance with article 458 of the Penal Code”.

the offense provided for in article 458 of the Penal Code is of a correctional nature so that its prescription is
5 years. the National Commission is therefore of the opinion that the retention period for log files should be extended from
12 months to 5 years.

d. as to the deletion of the results

article 3, paragraph 5, of the bill further specifies that the information received from the operators is erased
upon confirmation of their receipt by the judicial authority or the State Intelligence Service and that they are not
kept on the platform only for the time necessary for transmission to the requesting authorities.

According to the commentary of the articles, this mechanism is intended to prevent the platform from becoming a “directory”.
of all requests made insofar as it is only used to transmit decisions and results.

the National Commission wonders why the bill only provides for the deletion of the results transmitted
by the operators and not the erasure of requests transmitted by the judicial authorities or the
state intelligence.

in any case, erasing the results from the platform should not compromise the verification of the
legality of operations carried out through log files.

e. about the lack of safety rules

Even though the title of the bill contains the term "secure", it does not provide, apart from the mechanism
log files, security rules intended to protect the data processing carried out through the
platform.

Admittedly, article 28 of the law of 1 August 2018 obliges the controller and the processor to implement
implements the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security adapted to the
risk. However, this provision leaves far too much leeway and is not sufficient.
in view of the risk that this treatment presents.

in this case, a particularly high level of security would have to be ensured. Since the protection of life
privacy is a matter reserved for the law150, the main normative framework must be included in the law.

150 Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Constitution.

Annual Report

135

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

It therefore seems desirable to see the draft law supplemented by provisions relating to the obligations
specific security measures, taking into account the nature of the data and the risk of invasion of the privacy of the
citizens.

in this respect, the National Commission already intends to draw attention to the authors of the bill that the implementation
implementation of technical and organizational security measures should take into account the following risks:

- risk of interception of messages

• Systematic identification and authentication of the sender as well as the receiver for each message

exchange ;

• encryption of the communication channel as well as of the message exchanged;
• Minimization of any risk of eavesdropping on the communication line (wiretapping) by considering

particular the use of non-public lines under state control.

- risk of unauthorized access to the system

• nominative allocation of access on the basis of a formal and documented process in strict compliance

the principle of need-to-know need-to-do;

• regular, systematic and documented and at least annual review of all access as well as

access changes that took place over the period;

• Definition of access with a level of granularity sufficient to limit access to each issuer of

message in order to only have access to the return of its own requests;

• access to the system based on strong authentication;
• access to the system through secure workstations installed in secure premises;
• no access to real data and in a readable manner by the personnel in charge of developing,

operate, maintain or develop the platform;

• Security of the encryption keys used;
• relevance and, where applicable, replacement or update of the encryption algorithms used on the

platform.

- risk of illegitimate use of the system

• no possibility of reconstructing or giving substantial indications on the content of the messages

transmitted using the tracing of technical and business operations (log files);

annual report 136 2019 cnpd

• no possibility for business or technical users to modify the technical and business logs;
• Deletion on the operator's systems of messages (requests or responses) sent to the operator

or sent by the latter upon receipt respectively sending;

• Detection of anomalies or business and technical abuses through regular systematic reviews and

documented logs;

• no breach by the backup plan of the defined data retention periods;
• Training of users and operators regarding operation and their responsibilities

platform specific;

• Awareness of users as well as operators concerning the limits of use of data,

in particular the limits of the possibility of cross-referencing of messages with each other.

f. on the obligation to carry out a data protection impact assessment

article 26 of the law of 1 August 2018 provides that the controller must carry out prior to the
processing an analysis of the impact of the planned processing operations on the protection of personal data
personal character when a type of processing, in particular through the use of new technologies, and
given the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, is likely to create a high risk
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

Even if the data processing carried out by the judicial authorities and the State Intelligence Service in
title of the bill do not fall within the scope of the GDPR, it should be noted that its recitals
92 and 93 provide the following:

"There are cases in which it may be reasonable and economical to extend the scope of the impact assessment
relating to data protection beyond a single project, for example when public authorities
or public bodies intend to set up a common application or processing platform,
or when several data controllers plan to create an application or a processing environment
treatment common to an entire sector or professional segment, or for a transversal activity largely
used.

at the time of the adoption of the law of a Member State which establishes the exercise of the missions of public authority
or the public body concerned and which regulates the operation or set of processing operations
specific, Member States may consider that such an analysis is necessary prior to the activities of
treatment. »

It is therefore necessary to examine prior to the implementation of the platform whether an impact analysis relating to the
data protection is necessary or not.

Annual Report

137

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

iv. amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and of article 7, paragraph 3, subparagraph 1, of the amended law of 5

July 2016 reorganizing the state intelligence service

the authors of the bill explain in the explanatory memorandum that the currently applicable regime
raises considerable confidentiality issues in that “most of the time, opJs or members
of the State Intelligence Service notify the decisions in an unsuitable counter or premises of the operator
which is not equipped to guarantee the necessary confidentiality. prescriptions are listed in a
otherwise unsecured filing cabinet and are within reach of a good portion of employees. there
data protection, the protection of privacy and the confidentiality of the survey are therefore
threatened. »

It is with this in mind that the creation of the platform has as its main objective to improve the protection of
personal data of persons subject to tracking, surveillance or
control.

As noted in point III. e of this opinion, the National Commission is not currently in a position to
to assess it, in the absence of further details in the bill. In this context, it arises by
elsewhere the question of knowing why, given the shortcomings of the current system and the advantages of
platform put forward in the explanatory memorandum, the bill does not make the use of this platform
OBLIGATORY.

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill does not intend to make notification by electronic means
through the common platform an obligation. This is supported by sections 4 and 5 of the bill according to
which “[t]he necessary technical elements and information (…) are communicated [notified] including by
secure electronic means through the platform (…)”.

While it is clear from the bill that the transmission by the judicial authorities and the Service of
information from the State to operators can also be done by other means, it seems however
that operators be obliged to transmit the results through the platform, at least in
with regard to article 67-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and article 7, paragraph 3, of the law of
July 5, 2016.

indeed, the bill provides for the modification of paragraph 2 of article 67-1 in the sense that it will provide that
telecommunications operators and providers of a telecommunications service “transmit the
results of this execution using the same platform as soon as possible", without making any distinction
depending on the means by which the request reached them.

annual report 138 2019 cnpd

with regard to article 7, paragraph 3, of the law of 5 July 2016, the question also arises as to whether
whether the results must be transmitted by the platform, regardless of the means by which the request
has been addressed, or whether a "parallelism of forms" should be followed.

Article 88-4, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as amended by the bill, does not contain any
against any indication as to the means by which the results are to be transmitted. It is simply mentioned
that each "post and telecommunications operator" keeps a special register in which the
elements and technical information notified and the follow-up given to them.

in view of the strong reservations that the authors of the bill have expressed with regard to the "filing cabinets" kept
currently by operators and listing the prescriptions, the National Commission wonders about the usefulness
of this special register. In addition, the draft law does not contain any explanation as to the use of the term
“post and telecommunications operator”. in this respect, the National Commission takes the liberty of referring to its
developments under point II. of this notice.

Article 88, paragraph 3, of the Code of Criminal Procedure remains unchanged in that it provides that “[t]
telecommunications, postal correspondence, images, conversations or data recorded or
intercepted are delivered under seal and against receipt to the investigating judge who draws up a report of their
delivery ".

the National Commission is wondering how this provision relates to the transmission
electronically through the platform as provided for by the bill.

moreover, it is not clear to the National Commission how the transmission will take place, by the
through the platform, the results of the monitoring and control of "postal correspondence" referred to in the
predicts article 88, paragraph 3, of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

in addition, article 7, paragraph 1, of the law of July 5, 2016 aims at the monitoring and control of communication
electronic mail and "postal correspondence".

paragraph 3, subparagraph 1, of said article, as amended by the draft law, only mentions the
transmission of the technical elements and information necessary for the execution of the monitoring and
control over “telecommunications” operators and providers of a “telecommunications” service. He
is not clear to the National Commission by what means the requests concerning monitoring and control
of “postal correspondence” will be transmitted to the operators concerned151, respectively in what way
the results are to be transmitted.

151 the same remark applies to article 88-4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

Annual Report

139

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

In addition, article 7, paragraph 3, subparagraph 3, of the law of July 5, 2016 remains unchanged in that it provides that “[t]he
correspondence is sealed and delivered against receipt to the Sre, who has the correspondence copied
that can be used for its investigations and returns the writings that it does not deem necessary to withhold to the operators who
deliver them to the addressee".

the National Commission wonders about the articulation of this provision with the electronic transmission to the
through the platform as provided by the bill.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on June 5, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection,

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

annual report 140 2019 cnpd

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to:
1. Bill no. 6054 on non-profit associations and foundations;
2. Bill no. 7392 amending the amended law of April 21, 1928
on non-profit associations and foundations.

Deliberation n°41/2019 of June 18, 2019

In accordance with Article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free
movement of this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as "the GDPR"), each authority
of control has the task of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”. article 7 of the law of
August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the regime
general on data protection specifically provides that the National Commission for the Protection of
data (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it
under article 57 of the GDPR.

as such, the National Commission is taking an internal request to advise on draft law n°6054 on non-profit associations
and foundations, as well as bill no. 7392 amending the amended law of 21 April
1928 on non-profit associations and foundations.

1. The context of the CNPD's own referral

1.1. the obligation to file and the obligation to publish documents of an association

As a preliminary point, the CnpD recalls that non-profit associations (hereafter: “the association” or “the
associations”) are obliged by law to complete certain administrative formalities. the amended law of
9 December 2002 concerning the trade and companies register, as well as accounting and accounts
annual accounts, makes a distinction in this context between the obligation to file documents with
of the Trade and Companies Register (hereinafter: “RCS”) on the one hand and the obligation to publish documents
to the electronic compendium of companies and associations (hereinafter: “reSa”) on the other side. Luxembourg Business
registers (“lBr”), an economic interest group comprising the State, the Chamber of Commerce and the
Chamber of Trades, oversees the management of the RSC, the reSa, as well as the
register of beneficial owners (“rBe”).

Annual Report

141

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

the amended law of 21 April 1928 on non-profit associations and foundations (hereinafter: "the amended law
of April 21, 1928”) specifies which documents of an association must be published in the reSa,
such as the constitution. the reSa is the central electronic platform for official publication in
luxembourg, which has replaced the Mémorial C since 1 June 2016. the documents published there are accessible by
each user without additional steps.

the filing of documents by an association, on the other hand, consists of the submission to the RCS of documents submitted
to the filing obligation of the amended law of April 21, 1928 with a view to their classification in the file of
the association maintained by the RCS manager. nevertheless, by searching the rCS portal for an association
precise, the majority of the documents filed by the latter can be downloaded free of charge by any person
having set up a user account with the RCS. when creating said account, it is only
compulsory to indicate his first and last name, an e-mail address, the desired user name, as well as a password
pass.

1.2. the specific obligation to file a list of the members of an association

self-referral to the Cnpd occurs in the context of numerous requests for information and complaints
submitted to it concerning the filing with the RCS of a specific document containing a certain
number of personal data of members of an association. more specifically, Article 10 of
the amended law of April 21, 1928 provides that a “list indicating, in alphabetical order, the surnames, first names,
residences and nationalities of the members of the association, must be filed with the commercial register and
of companies within the month of the publication of the statutes" and that "any person may take them free of charge
awareness. »

an association in its capacity as controller is therefore obliged on the basis of article 10 of the
amended law of 21 April 1928 to transmit the data mentioned therein to the RCS, i.e. the association must
a priori base this data processing on compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller
is subject (article 6 paragraph (1) letter c) GDPR). As mentioned above, by creating an account
user and searching for a specific association, anyone who wishes can download a copy
the majority of the documents submitted for filing by said association with the RCS. the list of members of a
association is part of these downloadable documents.

moreover and independently on which of the six lawfulness criteria provided for in Article 6 paragraph (1)
of the GDPR a processing is based, the principles of purpose limitation and data minimization
provided for by article 5 paragraph (1) letters b) and c) of the GDPR are to be observed, these requiring that only
adequate, relevant and limited data to what is necessary for the legitimate purposes are
collected.

annual report 142 2019 cnpd

1.3. the general issue raised by the filing of the list of members

In general, the CnpD understands the need to maintain a list of members for management purposes
internal administrative of an association, including certain personal data such as surname, first name
and a postal / email address of the various members. moreover, as belonging to an association can in
certain cases and depending on the statutes and the activities pursued be considered as a contractual relationship between
members and the association itself, the CnpD considers that the various members have the right to know
the identity of their co-contractors.

nevertheless, taking into account the evolution of freedom of association since the adoption of the amended law of 21
April 1928, the National Commission wondered what the purpose of granting access to
the list of members of an association to third parties. As mentioned above, subject to compliance with certain
administrative formalities, people outside an association can indeed have access to the list of
members by uploading it to the CHN portal. Moreover, the simple consultation of a list of members
of an association may constitute processing of special categories of personal data
personal, so-called “sensitive” data, insofar as the fact of being a member of certain associations can
example revealing religious beliefs, trade union membership, political opinions, sexual orientation
members, etc. remember that the processing of this data is very strictly governed by article 9 of the GDPR.

the CnpD is well aware that the adoption of the amended law of 21 April 1928 largely predates the entry
in application of the GDPR, which explains certain conflicts between the two texts. Article 10 of the said law made
moreover part of the initial version of 1928, with the only difference that the filing of the list of members of a
association should be made with the registry of the civil court of the registered office of the association and not with the
rCS (non-existent at the time). moreover, the aforementioned article 10 already provided in 1928 that any person could
"to obtain free knowledge" of the list of members of an association. the CnpD considers that the article
10 in question, over 90 years old, deserves to be adapted to the requirements of the rGpD to take into account the fact that
these consultations can meanwhile be done by anyone, electronically from anywhere, and
if necessary in large quantities. as such, it can only share the opinion of the Chamber of Employees in this regard,
having set out in a relevant manner in its opinion of 7 May 2019 concerning bill no. 7392 on
modification of the modified law of April 21, 1928 on non-profit associations and foundations as follows:

“Given the origin of the provision of article 10 which dates from 1928 and that it was never adapted to the new
requirements and trends in the field of data protection, it can be considered that when entering into
force of the provision, it did not yet provide for modern means of linking several
sources of data in order to establish links and correlations. Combining this with the availability of data in
question on the internet, it seems that the processing in question should be redesigned taking into account the advances
recent developments in the field of data protection. »

Annual Report

143

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

the CnpD would therefore like to develop below its point of view on bill n°6054 on associations without
profit-making and foundations, as well as on proposed law no. 7392 amending the amended law of
April 21, 1928 on non-profit associations and foundations.

2. with regard to bill no. 6054 on non-profit associations and foundations

Already on June 10, 2009, the former Minister of Justice, Mr luc Frieden, had tabled the bill
n°6054 on non-profit associations and foundations (hereafter: “the draft law n°6054”), providing for
reform the entire legal system applicable in this area by repealing the amended law of 21 April 1928. However, the draft
of law has not been followed up for 5 years and it was not until December 13, 2018 that he was returned again
to the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies.

At this stage, the National Commission does not intend to comment on Bill No. 6054 as a whole, so
that the said bill will still be the subject of subsequent amendments and that it will be seized for opinion at the moment
came. nevertheless, it is already keen to comment on article 9 of bill no. 6054 which provides for
that the board of directors keeps at the registered office of the association a register of members including "the names,
first names and the precise private or professional address of the members, or in the case of a legal person, the
company name, legal form, address of the registered office and registration number in the register
of commerce and societies. This draft article therefore no longer provides for the publication of member data.
of an association accessible to everyone. indeed, it appears from paragraph (3) of article 9 of the bill
n°6054 that only the members of the association have the possibility of consulting at the headquarters of the association, between
others, the aforementioned register of members. moreover, said paragraph specifies that the "documents and documents"
mentioned, including the register of members, "cannot be moved".

According to the commentary to the articles, article 9 aims precisely to “replace the obligation to deposit a list
members of the trade and companies register, as it results from article 10 of the law of 1928,
by the obligation to keep a register of members at the registered office of the association. […] Thanks to the institution of such
register, all members of the association will now be able to consult its content at any time at the headquarters of
the association in order to know with precision the identity of the members of the association. They will no longer need
consult the list deposited in the trade and companies register in order to obtain this information. " The only ones
personal data relating to members and accessible to third parties through the publication of the statutes
to the reSa concern only the founding members of an association. Indeed, according to Article 3 paragraph
(1) point 4 of bill no. 6054, the articles of association must mention the surname, first names and private address or
precise professional of the founding members of the association.

the National Commission can only welcome Bill No. 6054 in that it removes the obligation to file the
list of members of an association with the RCS, which can be consulted by third parties under the aforementioned conditions

annual report 144 2019 cnpd

under points 1.1. and 1.2. of this notice, and that it replaces it by keeping such a list at the head office of
the association can only be consulted by its members. As noted by the Chamber of Employees in its
aforementioned opinion of May 7, 2019: “it is a question of restoring, due to the rapid development of electronic networks,
the balance between the data that are truly essential for the general interest and public order, namely
the identity of the members making up the board of directors of an asbl and the protection of the data of
members who compose it and, thereby, their private life in order to avoid any unhealthy curiosity likely to bring them
harm. »

a final doubt remains, however, with regard to the obligation imposed on each association to hold a
register of members at its headquarters, while the authors state in the explanatory memorandum to bill n°6054
that said register “can be consulted by all members (and third parties). » however, the CnpD had understood that this
obligation to keep a register of members at the registered office of the association was precisely intended to no longer
make it accessible to the general public or to “third parties”, i.e. to people outside the association.
By way of comparison, the amended Belgian law of 27 June 1921 on non-profit associations, foundations,
European political parties and European political foundations strictly limit access to data
members of an association. the Belgian text indeed specifies that apart from the members of the association, this
the latter must only, "in the event of an oral or written request, immediately grant access to the register of
members to authorities, administrations and services, including prosecutors, clerks and members of courts,
courts and all jurisdictions and officials legally empowered to do so […]. thus, like
of the Belgian text, the CnpD suggests to the authors of the bill to limit precisely in the body of the text which
are the potential recipients of the register of members.

3. with regard to bill no. 7392 amending the amended law of 21 April 1928 on

non-profit associations and foundations

dated December 18, 2018, bill no. 7392 amending the amended law of April 21
1928 on non-profit associations and foundations (hereafter: "proposal of law n°7392") was
tabled by MPs Sven Clement and Marc Goergen. said bill was declared admissible and
referred to the Justice Committee on January 29, 2019. Following the entry into force of the GDPR on
May 25, 2018, the authors of the bill question themselves precisely “about the need and the purpose of the
publication of personal data accessible via the internet of each member of an association
Nonprofit. » by its single article, the bill n°7392 aims to modify article 10 of the law
amended on April 21, 1928 by replacing the obligation to file a list of members with the RCS by holding a
"list indicating, in alphabetical order, the surnames, first names, residences and nationalities of the members of
association”. Similar to bill n°6054, the bill provides that the said list must be kept
by the administrators at the headquarters of the association and that each member of the association may take
free knowledge.

Annual Report

145

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

In general, the National Commission also welcomes bill no. 7392 providing for
replace the obligation to file the list of members of an association with the RCS, which can be consulted by third parties
under the conditions mentioned above under point 1.1. and 1.2. of this notice, by keeping such a list at
within the headquarters of the association which can only be consulted by its members. with regard to the principles provided for in Article
5 of the GDPR, the CnpD nevertheless questions the purpose and the need to collect and process the nationality of
members of an association. as such, it has a clear preference for the text of bill no. 6054, which does not provide
no obligation to mention the nationality.

4. Closing

According to the principles of purpose limitation, as well as data minimization, personal data
personal processed must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary to achieve the purposes
legitimate reasons which have been determined during the collection of the personal data (Article 5 paragraph
(1) letters b) and c) of the rGpD). according to the specific purposes thus determined and with regard to the principle of
necessity and proportionality, the controller must therefore determine which personal data
personnel can be used to achieve the different purposes. Recital 39 of the GDPR specifies in this
respect that “personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot be
reasonably achieved by other means. »

while the CnpD considers it reasonable to keep a list of the members of an association for
of internal administrative management and which can be consulted precisely by the said members, it wonders about the purpose
pursued by making this list accessible to third parties.

thus, the National Commission is of the opinion that there is currently a contradiction between Article 10 of the amended law
of April 21, 1928 and respect for the privacy of members of an association, as well as the protection of their data
of a personal nature with regard to the GDPR and for this reason it welcomes the two legislative initiatives. Moreover,
As shown by the complaints and requests for information received by the CnpD, the associations find themselves
momentarily in an uncertain legal situation, between the obligation to file the list of their members
with the RCS, resulting from a 90-year-old national law, on the one hand and compliance with the provisions of the GDPR,
superior legislative standard, on the other hand. in order to deal with this legal uncertainty and to ensure the compliance of the framework
Luxembourg law to the GDPR, the CNDP therefore considers it necessary to proceed quickly with the modification of the article
10 of the amended law of April 21, 1928. Indeed, the CJEU requires Member States of the European Union to implement
compliance of their existing national laws and regulations with European regulations, judging
that "the primacy and the direct effect of the provisions of Community law do not exempt the Member States from
the obligation to eliminate from their internal legal order provisions incompatible with Community law; in
Indeed, maintaining them creates an ambiguous factual situation, leaving the legal subjects concerned in a state
uncertainty as to the possibilities reserved for them to appeal to Community law.

annual report 146 2019 cnpd

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on June 18, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

Annual Report

147

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft law
No. 7425 on: 1st transposition of Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the
control of the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° amendment of the Penal Code, and 3°
repeal of the law of April 20, 1881 concerning the transport and trade of materials
explosive.

Deliberation n°42/2019 of July 8, 2019

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

by letter dated March 15, 2019, the Minister of Justice invited the National Commission to
to decide on bill n°7425 on: 1° transposition of directive (eu) 2017/853 of the parliament
European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of
the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° modification of the Penal Code, and 3° repeal of the law of April 20, 1881
concerning the transport and trade of explosive materials (hereinafter the "draft law").

the purpose of this bill is to transpose directive (eu) 2017/853 of the european parliament into national law
and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and
the possession of weapons (hereinafter the “directive”).

According to the explanatory memorandum, this bill intends to carry out a complete overhaul of the amended law of 15
March 1983 on arms and ammunition (hereinafter the "amended law of March 15, 1983), in addition it "provides
concerning its most important aspects, provisions relating to:
1° to a better definition and classification of weapons;
2° the prohibition of certain semi-automatic weapons considered to be particularly dangerous;
3° the introduction of the neutralization of firearms;
4° the requirement of a medical certificate;

annual report 148 2019 cnpd

5° a ban on handling weapons under the influence of alcohol;
6° the storage of weapons;
7° arms exports;
8° the strengthening of measures to control the application of the future law, and
9° the strengthening of criminal provisions in this area. »

Insofar as this draft law transposes the aforementioned directive into national law, the National Commission
refers with regard to the legal framework of this directive to the opinion of 17 February 2014 of the European Supervisor
of data protection (hereinafter the “CepD”) on “firearms and internal security in the union
European Union: protect citizens and thwart illicit trafficking" and will limit its comments to the provisions
concerning the concrete implementation of this directive in Luxembourg.

this opinion will therefore deal with questions relating to aspects of the protection of personal data,
raised by Articles 13 (Weapons file and processing of personal data), 14 (attestation
medicine), 15 (armorer and arms dealer approval), 17 (Employees and collaborators of gunsmiths),
19 (arms register), 22 (General conditions concerning the granting of authorizations to individuals) and 52
(Checks carried out by the customs and excise administration) of the bill.

i. preliminary remarks

first of all, it should be noted that, insofar as this bill constitutes a complete overhaul of
the amended law of March 15, 1983, certain elements which appear in the bill do not derive directly
of the directive but are useful and necessary to regulate the various treatments implemented by the Minister
having in his competences the law under opinion (hereinafter the "Minister").

Due to the repeal of the amended law of March 15, 1983, the CnpD understands that the "prohibited weapons file
and authorisations", referred to in Article 5, paragraph 4, of the aforementioned law, will be replaced by the "weapons file" created
by section 13 of the bill. From the point of view of the principle of legal certainty, the National Commission
welcomes the fact that the principle of creating such a file is provided for in the draft law in accordance with Article 6,
paragraph (3) of GDPR152. This article provides, in fact, for a particular constraint linked to the lawfulness of the processing of
data necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a mission of public interest or relating to
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In these two cases, the
basis and purposes of data processing must be specifically provided for either by EU law
European Union, or by the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.
 
In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to union law or to the law
of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. moreover, this law could specify the conditions

152 Article 6, paragraph (3) provides that the “legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of the Regulation, inter alia:
the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the controller; the people concerned ; the entities to which the personal data
may be disclosed and the purposes for which they may be disclosed; purpose limitation; retention periods; and operations
and processing procedures, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those provided for in other specific situations of
treatment as provided for in Chapter IX”.

Annual Report

149

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can be
be disclosed, purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure
lawful and fair processing. […]”. under the aforementioned provisions, these legal bases should contain
specific provisions concerning, inter alia, the types of data processed, the persons concerned, the
entities to which the data may be communicated and for what purposes, the retention periods of the
data or processing operations and procedures.

however, and although the principle of creating such a file is provided for in the bill, the Commission notes
that certain elements relating to data processing are not (or not sufficiently) specified in the project
of law.

in addition, the National Commission notes on reading the draft law that reference is made to the "arms file
prohibited” in section 52 of the bill. the authors of the bill still mention a "file of the Service
prohibited weapons” in the commentary to section 19 of the bill. In this context, the Commission
asks if there are multiple files or if this is the file that is referred to in clause 13 of the bill. In such
hypothesis, would it not be appropriate for the sake of clarity and for a better understanding of the said articles,
to expressly refer to the file referred to in Article 13 or to use the same terminology, namely the “file of
weapons”? on the other hand, if these are different files, it should then be expressly indicated in the project
of law, and to specify for each of these files the purposes, categories of data, etc. that are associated with it.

It emerges from the foregoing that the National Commission does not have all the information
concerning all the processing of personal data implemented as part of the draft
law and cannot fully assess whether the processing implemented complies with the GDPR.

the CnpD will therefore specify, in the developments below, the missing elements concerning the processing
carried out within the framework of keeping the file referred to in Article 13 (II), the specificities relating to the processing of
data relating to criminal offenses and health which must be respected by the controller
(III), the clarifications to be made to the register of arms maintained by gunsmiths (IV) and to the access provided
by article 52 of the draft law for agents of the customs and excise administration (V).

ii. on the "file containing personal data" referred to in Article 13 of the draft law

As previously indicated, the National Commission understands that this file is intended to replace the
“prohibited weapons and authorizations file” referred to in article 5, paragraph 4, of the amended law of March 15, 1983
(hereinafter the “prohibited weapons and authorizations file”).

annual report 150 2019 cnpd

1. On the legal basis on which the processing is based

Firstly, it should be remembered that the processing of personal data is lawful only if at the
unless one of the conditions referred to in Article 6, paragraph (1) letters a) to f) is met.

It appears from paragraph (4) of article 13 of the draft law, that the authors of the draft law intend to found the
processing of data, as referred to in the aforementioned article 13, with the consent of the persons concerned.

however, it should be noted that on the one hand the current wording of the article does not allow obtaining consent
valid within the meaning of the GDPR and on the other hand this lawfulness basis is not the most appropriate in the context of the
this law under notice.

Regarding the consent of the data subject, it should be recalled that in accordance with Article 4,
paragraph (11) of the GDPR, consent is defined as: “any expression of will, free, specific,
informed and unambiguous by which the person concerned accepts, by a declaration or by a clear positive act,
that personal data concerning him be processed”. however, the wording
section 13 (4) of the draft law in that it provides that “the data subject consents
to the processing of his personal data, including that the bulletin n ° 2 of the criminal record is issued
directly by the State Attorney General to the Minister. does not comply with the meaning of the GDPR, in that the
consent given by the data subject is akin to forced consent.

indeed, it should be remembered that one of the elements of a valid consent is a “manifestation of will
free”. the adjective “free” implies real choice and control for the people concerned. thus, if the person
concerned is not truly in a position to exercise a choice, feels pressured to consent or will suffer
significant negative consequences if she does not give her consent, then the consent will not be
valid153.

in any case, recital 43 of the GDPR clearly states that “there is a manifest imbalance
between the data subject and the controller, in particular when the controller
is a public authority and it is unlikely that the consent was freely given in view of all the
circumstances of this particular situation. ". In addition, the "Article 29" Working Party still considers, in
its guidelines on consent within the meaning of the GDPR154, that there are in principle other legal bases
more appropriate to the activities of public authorities, in particular paragraph (1), points c) and e) of Article 6
of the rGpD.

in view of the above, the Commission therefore suggests that the following passage "the data subject consents
to the processing of his personal data" is deleted.

153 page 6 of the guidelines on consent under the GDPR, Article 29 Working Party, adopted on November 28, 2017, version revised and adopted on

April 10, 2018.

154 point 3.1.1. Imbalance of power relations, pages 6 and 7 of the GDPR consent guidelines, Article 29 Working Party, adopted

on November 28, 2017, version revised and adopted on April 10, 2018.

Annual Report

151

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

2. On the determination of the purposes of the processing

First of all, it should be recalled that according to Article 5 paragraph (1), b) of the GDPR, the
personal data must be “collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes,
and not be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes (…)”. Additionally, Section 6
paragraph (3) of the GDPR, read together with its paragraph (1) letter c) and (e), provides for a particular constraint
related to the lawfulness of data processing necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or the performance of a
mission of public interest or relating to the exercise of official authority vested in the controller.
In these two cases, the basis and purposes of the data processing must specifically be
provided for either by the law of the European Union, or by the law of the Member State to which the controller
is submitted.

Recital (41) of the GDPR further specifies that “this legal basis or this legislative measure should be
clear and precise and its application should be predictable for litigants, in accordance with the case law of
the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the “Court of Justice”) and the European Court of
human rights. »

in view of the foregoing, the National Commission considers that the purpose as currently worded in paragraph
(1) of Article 13: “(…) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the execution of this law” is formulated as follows:
way too vague.

In view of the above developments, the National Commission therefore recommends specifying the
purposes of the processing and wonders whether it would not be more appropriate to transpose paragraph
(4) first paragraph of article 4 of the directive which specifies that: “This data file includes all the
information relating to firearms that is necessary to trace and identify those firearms”.

however, if the file referred to in Article 13 of the bill also processes data for other purposes, then
this article should be supplemented and specify these other purposes. Indeed, the CnpD wonders if the minister does not
would not collect personal data for the purposes of administrative management of authorizations for the
carrying of arms. On this point, the National Commission wishes to draw attention to the legal provisions provided
by the Belgian legislator who specified concerning the central register of weapons, that the information contained in
this file can only be used for “the management of the documents provided for in article 29, and within the framework of the
judicial and administrative police missions of these authorities and services”155.

In accordance with the principle of purpose limitation, personal data must be collected for
specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not further processed in an incompatible manner
with these purposes. in principle, the data must not be processed for purposes "incompatible" with

155 article 28 of the royal decree implementing the law on weapons of 20 September 1991, as amended.

annual report 152 2019 cnpd

these initial purposes specified in the law. It would therefore be appropriate if the file concerns several purposes to indicate
precisely which categories of data are processed for which purposes.

3. On the categories of personal data

moreover, the National Commission welcomes the clarification of the categories of personal data,
as enumerated in paragraph (2) of article 13 of the draft law which is moreover a literal repetition of the
list which appears in Article 4 paragraph (4) of the Directive.

however, the Commission found that in order to issue administrative authorizations for firearms
fire, the Minister is currently required to collect and process personal data such as photos
of identity, the copy of the identity card of the applicant for a weapon license as well as, if necessary, the copy of the
Identity card of the gun seller. These documents are, in fact, listed in the annexes to be attached to the application.
in obtaining a firearms license, as it appears on the form “first request for obtaining a
weapons license”156. however, the collection of these categories of personal data is not specified in the
text of the bill.

If the intention of the ministry having justice in its attributions is to continue to collect such data in the
As part of the issuance of such authorizations, the CnpD considers it essential that these categories of data be
also clearly detailed in the bill, and recommends listing what data is collected
and for what purposes. It is, in fact, difficult to understand on reading the bill what is really
all the data collected by the Minister, and for what purposes they are processed.

4. About the people concerned

the National Commission recommends that the legislator insert provisions concerning the categories of
persons concerned (purchaser, supplier, holder of a license to possess weapons, etc.) for the
different processing likely to be implemented within the framework of this bill. indeed, it would be appropriate
to specify which categories of persons are concerned by this processing, and to indicate which are the
related categories of data.

5. On the origin of personal data

the National Commission notes that the origin of the data processed by the Minister is not specified in the
text of section 13 of the bill. a clarification in this respect would be worth specifying. is the data
are collected from the forms to be completed by persons wishing to obtain a permit
weapons? Are there other sources that would allow the Ministry to indirectly collect data relating to

156 Available on the website of the Ministry of Justice at the following address: https://guichet.public.lu/fr/formulaires/armes/obtention-permis-arme.html

Annual Report

153

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

to suppliers, buyers or holders of arms in luxembourg from other state files? In
If so, such communication of data between ministries or administrations should be specified in the
the text of the bill.
 

6. On access to personal data

the National Commission regrets the lack of precision in article 13 of the draft law with regard to access to
data.

i. On access to personal data by the Minister and his agents

the CnpD recommends specifying that within the Ministry of Justice, access to data be limited to
only agents who need to know it as part of their job. Provision should also be made for
terms of this access and to put in place a procedure including appropriate safeguards aimed at excluding
any use going beyond the purposes for which this data is initially processed.

ii. On access to data by “other competent administrative authorities”

the National Commission regrets that point 1) of paragraph (3) of Article 13 of the draft law contains a
vague wording. This article provides, in fact, that access to the personal data referred to in paragraph
(2) of Article 13 is accessible to “other competent administrative authorities who need to know about it”.
in the exercise of their legal missions for a maximum period of ten years which runs from the date of
destruction of the firearm or essential parts in question”.

however, this vague wording does not meet the requirements of precision and predictability that a
legal text. a law must be sufficiently clear and precise to allow the persons concerned to know
the extent of the limitations, as well as the possible consequences for them157.

furthermore, it should be noted that article 4 paragraph (4), subparagraph 2, of the directive, that the provision under
notice is called upon to transpose, is more precise in that it provides that: “personal data including
are accessible: a) to the competent authorities in order to grant or withdraw the authorizations referred to in
Article 6 or 7 or to the competent authorities in matters of customs procedure, for a period of ten years
after the destruction of the firearm or the essential parts in question”. It is apparent from the above that the
wording adopted by the authors of the bill expands the number of authorities covered by article 4 paragraph
(4), paragraph 2, of the directive. by not following the directive on this point, the bill under opinion proceeds to a
incorrect transposition of the directive. the CnpD is of the opinion that the authors of the bill must specify the
provision, i.e. list the authorities referred to but cannot go beyond what is provided for by
the directive.

157 See among others CourDH, Zakharov c. Russia [GC], n°47413/06, § 228-229, December 4, 2015.

annual report 154 2019 cnpd

the Commission therefore considers it necessary to list the administrative authorities likely to have access to it
and to specify that such access will be limited to employees of the authority / body with a need to know. Of
more and as indicated in the point above, this access to the data must not allow a use that differs
the purposes for which this data is processed.

iii. On access traceability

According to Article 5.1, f) of the GDPR, personal data must be “processed in such a way as to
ensure appropriate security of personal data, including protection against processing
unauthorized or unlawful and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using measures
appropriate technical or organizational (integrity and confidentiality)”.

in addition, article 32 of the GDPR states that “the controller and the processor shall implement the
appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk”.
such measures must be implemented in order to avoid in particular unauthorized access to data or
data leaks.

Among these security measures, the National Commission considers it important that only people who have them
necessary in the exercise of their functions and professional tasks are entitled to have access to the
necessary data. In this context, it is strongly recommended to define an access management policy,
in order to be able to identify from the outset the person or department, within each administration concerned, who
would have access to the computer interface made available by the CtIe, and to what specific data this person
or this service would have access.

in addition, it is necessary to provide an access logging system. Finally, the Cnpd recommends that
logging data are kept for a period of five years from their recording, period
after which they are erased, except when they are the subject of a control procedure.

7. On data exchanges

With regard to paragraph (5) of Article 13 of the draft law, the National Commission wishes first of all to
specify that personal data can circulate freely from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
within the European Economic Area, as long as the general principles of the GDPR are respected. It will be necessary
in particular to ensure compliance with the principle of purpose limitation, under which data must not be
be processed for purposes “incompatible” with the original purposes.

Regarding the transfer of data outside the European Economic Area, it should be remembered that in addition to the
compliance with the general principles of the GDPR, such transfers must be carried out in compliance with the provisions

Annual Report

155

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

of chapter V of the GDPR concerning the transfer of personal data to third countries or to
International organisations.

8. On the rights of data subjects

It should also be specified that the person responsible for processing the file referred to in article 13 of the bill,
namely the Minister, must respect, when collecting personal data from persons
data subjects, the provisions of article 13 of the GDPR, if it collects them directly from them (as
could be the case with the purchaser of a firearm), or the provisions of article 14 of the GDPR, if applicable.
collection indirectly (as might be the case in the event that firearms suppliers
would transmit to the Ministry the names and addresses of the purchasers). the Minister will have to provide, according to the different
hypotheses, all the information provided for in articles 13 or 14 of the GDPR, it being specified that in the event of collection
indirectly, he must provide them within the time limits provided for in article 14, paragraph (3) of the GDPR.

9. On the retention period of personal data

According to article 5 paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, personal data must not be
kept longer than necessary for the achievement of the purposes for which they are collected and
processed.

in view of the foregoing, the Cnpd welcomes that a maximum period of 30 years for the conservation of
data has been specified in the bill and understands that this duration is necessary in order to allow a
tracing of firearms and their essential parts for the purposes of administrative and criminal proceedings. This
limitation therefore appears necessary and proportionate in view of the aforementioned purposes.

however, with respect to other purposes for which the data may be processed, such as
example for administrative management purposes, the Commission regrets that the authors of the bill did not
indicated the retention periods of such data, so that the CnpD is not able to assess whether in
In this case, the principle of limited data retention period has been respected regarding the collection of these
data.

iii. on gunsmith and arms trader licenses as well as on the licenses of employees and

collaborators of gunsmiths

Articles 15 (gunsmith and arms dealer licenses) and 17 (Employees and collaborators of gunsmiths)
of the bill are intended to subject gunsmiths as well as their employees, collaborators, and merchants
of weapons to an approval of the minister in order to exercise their activity of gunsmith or professional.

158 recital 9 of the directive states that: “In view of the dangerous nature and the durability of firearms and their essential parts, in order to
ensure that the competent authorities are able to trace firearms and essential parts for the purposes of administrative and criminal proceedings and in
taking into account national procedural law, it is necessary that the records in the data files be kept for a period of thirty years
after the destruction of the firearms or the essential parts concerned. ".

annual report 156 2019 cnpd

It should be noted that the authors of the bill specify in paragraph (2) of article 15 that “the approval
can only be granted to natural persons who present the necessary guarantees of good repute (…).
good repute is assessed on the basis of the behavior and background of the applicant and all the elements
provided by the administrative inquiry, carried out by the Minister following the introduction of a request for the purposes of
the granting of approval”. Article 17 of the bill also refers to the notion of good repute in that it provides
that “accreditation can only be granted to persons: (…) who present the guarantees of good repute
required ".

however, the CnpD wonders what are the criteria for assessing such “honourability” while no precision
additional is indicated in the bill. Just as she wonders what are the checks
likely to be carried out by the Minister within the framework of the “administrative investigation”, in particular what are
the data that he will be able to consult? indeed, such a procedure is not detailed in the bill.
under notice.

Concerning the notions of “good repute” and “administrative enquiry”, the attention of the authors should be drawn
of the bill on the fact that similar notions are indicated in the amended law of 2 September 2011
regulating access to the professions of craftsman, trader, industrialist and certain professions
(hereinafter the “amended law of 2 September 2011”), the Grand-Ducal regulation of 1 December 2011
determining the terms of the administrative instruction provided for in article 28 of the amended law of 2 September
2011 (hereinafter the “Grand-Ducal Regulation of 1 December 2011) and the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 28 April 2015
establishing the processing of personal data necessary for the execution of article 32 of the law
amended on 2 September 2011 (hereinafter the “Grand-ducal regulation of 28 April 2015”).

for example, chapter 3 of the amended law of September 2, 2011 entitled “professional integrity”
defines this concept and specifies the criteria for its assessment. Article 2, paragraph (4) of the Grand-Ducal regulation
of 1 December 2011 specifies the documents to be provided by the applicant and on which his
good repute will be appreciated.

It should also be noted that article 28 of the said law provides that: “the authorization of establishment
is issued by the Minister after an administrative instruction. the terms of the administrative instruction
and the documents to be produced will be determined by Grand-Ducal regulation”. subsection (2) of section 32
of the aforementioned law as well as article 2 of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 28 April 2015 list the processing
of personal data to which the minister can access in the context of this instruction
administration.

the Cnpd therefore considers it necessary that the criteria for assessing good repute as referred to in articles 15
and 17 of the bill be clarified, just as it is also necessary to detail the data to which

Annual Report

157

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

may access the Minister in the context of the administrative inquiry. the authors of the bill could if they
wish to draw inspiration from the aforementioned legal provisions concerning the issuance of a business permit.

iv. on the processing of data relating to criminal offenses and health

It emerges from the bill that personal data relating to health (article 14 of the bill) and
criminal offenses are collected (paragraph (4) of article 13 and paragraph (2) of article 22 of the bill)
by the minister. the National Commission is pleased that legal bases have been introduced for the processing of
data mentioned above but deplores however that their purposes were not specified in the draft law whereas
this processing involves in particular the collection of sensitive data within the meaning of article 9 of the GDPR159.
 

1. On the processing of data relating to offenses

first of all, the National Commission suggests that paragraph (4) of article 13 of the bill concerning the
processing of data relating to bulletin no. 2 of the criminal record refers to the provisions of Article 8, point
1) of the amended law of 29 March 2013 on the organization of criminal records, as amended by
a law of 23 July 2016160, as specified by the authors of the bill in their commentary to said article.

It should also be specified that Article 1 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 23 July 2016 establishing the list of
administrations and legal persons governed by public law who may request a bulletin n° 2 or n° 3 from the register
court with the written or electronic consent of the person concerned, provides that bulletin no. 2: "may be
issued on request and with the express agreement in writing or electronically of the person concerned”. there
National Commission therefore recommends that paragraph (4) of Article 13 refer to these legal provisions,
more particularly with regard to the consent of the data subject.

In addition, in accordance with the definition of consent under the GDPR, consent must be specific,
that is to say, it must correspond to a single processing operation, for a specific purpose. In its guidelines
on consent within the meaning of the GDPR, the “article 29” working group specifies that: “in accordance with
Article 5, paragraph (1), point b) of the GDPR, the obtaining of a valid consent is always preceded
the determination of a specific, explicit and legitimate purpose for the processing activity envisaged.
Combined with the purpose delimitation concept of Article 5, paragraph (1), point b), the need to obtain a
specific consent serves as a safeguard against the progressive enlargement or erosion of the purposes for which the
data are processed after a data subject has given their consent to the initial collection of their data.
data”161. however, the current wording of subsection (4) of section 13 of the bill in that it provides that
“the person concerned consents to the processing of their personal data, including that bulletin n°2
criminal record is issued directly by the State Attorney General to the Minister. » does not satisfy
on this condition.

159 Article 9, paragraph (1) provides that: “the processing of personal data which reveals racial or ethnic origin, political opinions,
religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership, as well as the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purposes
to uniquely identify a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning the sex life or sexual orientation of a
natural person are prohibited. »

160 article 8, paragraph (1) of the law of provides that: “the bulletin n° 2 of a natural or legal person is issued on request:
  1) to State administrations, municipal administrations and legal persons under public law seized, within the framework of their legal missions, of a request
presented by the natural or legal person concerned, who has given his consent in writing or electronically so that report no. 2 is issued
directly to the administration or to the legal entity under public law.

  the list of administrations and legal persons governed by public law and the grounds for an application for issuance are set by Grand-Ducal regulation; »
161 page 13 of the guidelines on consent under the GDPR, Article 29 Working Party, adopted on November 28, 2017, version revised and adopted

on April 10, 2018.

annual report 158 2019 cnpd

For the sake of clarity and taking into account the above, the Commission recommends
that subsection (4) of section 13 be reworded in order to reflect the intention of the legislator which is to allow
the Minister, when the person concerned agrees, to ask the public prosecutor directly
General of State a bulletin n°2 of the criminal record. if the person concerned does not give his consent,
she would have to provide the register slip herself. the passage “the data subject consents to the
processing of his personal data” should therefore be deleted.

the National Commission also notes that the authors of the bill have introduced new
provisions aimed at allowing, within the framework of the issuance of weapons permits, the
Minister to consult the information appearing in the “special register provided for by article 15 of the amended law of 10
August 1992 relating to the protection of youth”162 in the event that the applicant would be under the age of
21 years old at the time of submitting the application. These new provisions provided for by the 2nd sentence of the
paragraph (2) of section 22 of the bill, raise certain questions on the part of the Commission
national.

Indeed, the authors of the bill themselves indicate in their comments that these new provisions
have been added to make it easier for the Minister to obtain this information because
“Practice has shown that there is a great deal of reluctance to provide the information in question to the Service des
prohibited weapons, mainly for reasons, legitimate of course, relating to the confidentiality of information
concerned. ".

According to the principle of data minimization, only the personal data necessary for the
achievement of the purposes must be processed, taking into account the risk that the processing poses to privacy
of the persons concerned.

Given the previous developments, the CnpD wonders whether there might not be means
alternative, less intrusive and less intrusive to the privacy of the minors concerned, but allowing to arrive
for the same purposes. In the event that alternative means cannot be implemented, the Commission
Nationale recommends that safeguards be provided to limit the risk of privacy breaches
of the minors concerned. Such safeguards could be put in place by providing for restricted access to these
data163.

2. On the processing of data relating to health

the CnpD notes that the data relating to the medical certificate are sensitive data within the meaning of Article
9 of the GDPR because they concern the health of the persons concerned and recalls that such processing requires
specific protection164 and are subject to stricter requirements.

162 Article 15 of the amended law of 10 August 1992 on the protection of young people provides that: “the decisions of the court or of the juvenile judge are not
not entered in the criminal record. with the exception of those taken under article 302 of the civil code, they are however mentioned in a special register kept
by the criminal records officer.
Sentences pronounced by a criminal court against a minor are also mentioned in the special register.

 
  These decisions and convictions may be brought to the attention of the judicial authorities. they may also be brought to the attention of
administrative authorities in cases where this information is essential for the application of a legal or regulatory provision, as well as third parties
aggrieved, if they so request. »

163 See point II.5) of this opinion.
164 See the cases rendered by the ECJ of 8 April 1992, C-62/90, point 23 and of 5 October 1994, C-404/92 p, point 17.

Annual Report

159

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

In addition, it should be noted that the CepD specified in its opinion of 17 February 2014 that: "the" examinations
medical” should be defined. the data that can/may be processed for these purposes should be
strictly listed, and control procedures should be clearly specified. the reasons
refusal of a permit should be clearly indicated. »165.

moreover, the Commission wonders whether it would not be necessary to specify the criteria on which the examination must be based.
to determine whether the person's condition constitutes or does not constitute a risk to his or her integrity
physical injury, that of others or for public order and safety?

3. final remarks

finally and as rightly noted by the Chamber of Commerce in its opinion of May 2, 2019 on the
this draft law166, Article 5 paragraph (2) of the directive167 which provides for a system for monitoring authorizations
acquisition and possession of weapons has not been transposed by the authors of the bill. It would therefore be appropriate to
complete section 22 of the bill to provide for such a monitoring system. said system would also allow the
controller to update, rectify or delete the data it collects.

v. on the register of arms kept by the gunsmiths

the National Commission notes that the keeping of such a register is provided for in Article 12 of the amended law of 15 March
1983 on arms and ammunition. Article 19 of the bill concerning the arms register takes up this principle and
transposes the provisions of Article 4, paragraph (4), subparagraph 5, of the Directive.

moreover, in addition to the transposition of the aforementioned provisions, paragraph (4) of article 19 of the bill
provides for an “electronic connection” by gunsmiths to the file referred to in article 13 of the bill, which is not
not provided for under the law of March 15, 1983.

the CnpD wonders whether these provisions are intended to ensure effective sharing of information between
armourers and the Minister to ensure the proper functioning of the data files, as specified
in recital 10 of the directive. In the context of such sharing, said recital provides in particular that
“(…) competent national authorities should develop a means of electronically connecting
accessible to gunsmiths and brokers, which may include transmission of information by email
or direct registration in a database or other register”.

however, the National Commission considers that paragraph (4) of Article 19 of the Bill is not drafted
with enough precision and clarity to understand what relationship they wish to establish
the authors of the bill between the files of article 13 and article 19.

165 point 29, page 9 of the CepD opinion.
166 opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of May 2, 2019 (document n°7425/01), see its comments concerning article 22.
167 Article 5 paragraph (2) of the Directive provides that “Member States shall have monitoring, which operates on a continuous or periodic basis, aimed at guaranteeing
that the conditions for granting an authorization set by national law are fulfilled for the entire duration of the authorization and that, in particular, the information
Relevant medical and psychological issues are assessed. the specific modalities are determined in accordance with national law. when one of the conditions
granting an authorization is no longer fulfilled, the Member States shall withdraw the corresponding authorization. »

annual report 160 2019 cnpd

the CnpD wonders if the intention of the authors of the bill is to allow gunsmiths to have access to the
bill section 13 file. In this case, this access should be strictly supervised
that the mutual exchange of data between a public and private sector actor has certain
risks from the point of view of the protection of privacy and personal data. the Commission
National Authority emphasizes the need to respect the principle of data minimization, according to which any processing of
data must be proportionate to the purposes to be achieved, taking into account the risk that the processing poses to the
privacy of the persons concerned. In addition, the CnpD wonders what data gunsmiths will have access to,
what will be their means of access and what security measures will be put in place within the framework of these
access ?

the National Commission also notes that the obligation of keeping such a register by the gunsmith himself
after the cessation of its activity, as provided for in paragraph (3) of Article 19, is likely to be
problem. indeed, how this obligation of minimum conservation of 30 years can be respected in
practical if the gunsmith ceases his activity after 20 years, i.e. before the aforementioned minimum period?

in this regard, the Cnpd notes that article 4, paragraph (4), last paragraph of the directive does not provide for such
obligation, but stipulates that "when they cease their activities, gunsmiths and brokers shall return this register
to the national authorities responsible for the data files provided for in the first paragraph”. Therefore and in a
concern for the correct transposition of the directive into national law, the National Commission recommends resuming
literally the provisions of the aforementioned article on this subject and that the authors of the bill therefore provide that the
register is transmitted to the Minister when the gunsmiths cease their activity.

vi. on access by agents of the Customs Administration to the file of prohibited weapons

subsection (6) of section 52 provides access to customs and excise officials
within the framework of the exercise of their functions as defined in paragraphs (1) to (4) of the aforementioned Article 52.
the CnpD regrets that this bill is not accompanied by a draft grand-ducal regulation
which would specify the categories of data to which the agents of the administration could access
customs, so that it is not in a position to assess whether the principle of data minimization is
respected.

moreover, it is not clear from said article which file this access relates to, because it mentions the file
prohibited weapons. As set out in point I) of this bill, this file is not defined in the bill.
of law but is mentioned in the text of the old law. This imprecision deserves to be clarified and the legislator
should indicate precisely which file this access relates to. indeed, this would prevent the agents of
the customs and excise administration have access to a file when such access is not justified within the framework
of their legal duties.

Annual Report

161

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Finally, the National Commission is pleased that the authors of the bill have specified the terms of access
to the prohibited weapons file, as well as providing traceability of access by authorized agents.
Regarding access traceability, please refer to point II.5.iii of this opinion.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on July 8, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

annual report 162 2019 cnpd

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to
government amendments to the bill on macroprudential measures
relating to residential real estate loans and amending the amended law of
April 5, 1993 relating to the financial sector, and the law of April 1, 2015 creating a
Systemic Risk Committee and amending the amended law of 23 December 1998 relating to the
monetary status and at the central bank of Luxembourg.

Deliberation n°44/2019 of August 8, 2019

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other institutions
and organizations regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to the processing”.

by letter dated July 29, 2019, the Director of the Treasury, for the Minister of Finance, invited the
National Commission to rule on government amendments to Bill No. 7218 relating to
macroprudential measures relating to residential real estate loans and modifying:

- the amended law of 5 April 1993 relating to the financial sector;

- the law of 1 April 2015 creating a systemic risk committee and amending the amended law of

23 December 1998 relating to the monetary status and the Banque centrale du luxembourg.

The purpose of this bill is to supplement the legislative framework in terms of macroprudential tools to
available to the Luxembourg authorities through the introduction of macroprudential measures that can be used
specifically in the event of a threat to the financial stability of the national financial system arising from developments
in the real estate sector in Luxembourg.

According to the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the government amendments is to "follow up on the objections
formal formalities formulated by the Council of State by specifying a strict normative framework within which the CSSF can act
when deciding on the application of the aforementioned measures”.

Annual Report

163

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

In its opinion of 29 March 2018 (parliamentary document 7218/06), the National Commission had already had
the opportunity to comment on the bill under consideration, and was limited to remarks relating to
its article 2, in particular concerning the use of the term “aggregate information”, which it recommended
replace with “aggregated and anonymized data” (if it is indeed anonymous or anonymized data).

the CnpD notes that the authors of the bill did not follow this suggestion, while article 2 of the bill
of law still provides that “(…) the Banque centrale du luxembourg has a right of access to information
aggregated data available from state administrations, public establishments other than those placed under
the supervision of municipalities and other competent state authorities insofar as this information
are necessary for its research and analysis activities in relation to the mission of the Risk Committee
systemic".

however, without further details on what is meant by “aggregate information”, she wonders whether these terms
correspond to anonymised data or pseudonymised data? the National Commission reiterates
therefore his suggestion to replace these terms with “aggregated and anonymized data”, in order to remove any ambiguity
as possible on the nature of the data that could be the subject of a right of access by the BCl. In this case, the GDPR
would not be intended to apply to the collection of such data.

the CnpD also intends to remind for all practical purposes that in the event that the “aggregate information” should be
qualified as pseudonymised data, and therefore personal data, the GDPR will apply with
all the resulting consequences. however, if this were the case, the provision under examination would clearly be
too vague and would therefore not respect the principle of legality and foreseeability required by law and case law
European. Indeed, as recital 41 of the GDPR explains, a legal basis or legislative measure
which serves as the basis for data processing "should be clear and precise and its application should be foreseeable
for litigants, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court
European Union of Human Rights”.

for the rest, the amendments made to the bill under consideration do not entail any change in
concerning the protection of personal data, and therefore do not call for any comment.
additional from the CnpD.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on August 8, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

annual report 164 2019 cnpd

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to the central file of
the Grand Ducal Police with regard to data protection legislation.

Deliberation n°45/2019 of September 13, 2019

In accordance with article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of directive (eu) n° 2016/680 of 27 April 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses
or execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the Framework Decision
2008/977/JaI of the Council168 (hereinafter referred to as “the Directive”), to which article 8 of the law of 1 August refers
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime”), the National Commission
for data protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”), “advises the
Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative measures and
administrative procedures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data ".

with regard to the advisory mission assigned to it, the CnpD was requested by the Minister of Security
interior to issue an opinion on the central file of the Grand Ducal police with regard to the legislation in
matters of data protection.

If the field of police files is little known and raises real concerns among citizens about the respect
civil liberties and the protection of their personal data, the files nevertheless constitute
essential tools for the execution of the missions of the police forces.

in order to respond as best as possible to the request for an opinion submitted to it, the CnpD took into account the concerns
citizens, the many parliamentary questions from MPs and the answers to these questions
by the ministers concerned. the CnpD has also requested the data protection authorities of other
Member States so that they can inform it about the legal framework for data protection
supervising police files in their countries. In addition, during the summer of 2019, the CnpD met in
several times with the Grand-Ducal police (hereinafter referred to as “the police”), with the aim of deepening its
understanding of the management and use made of the central file by the latter.

this notice is devoted exclusively to the so-called “central” file of the grand-ducal police. the opinion, which has
not intended to establish the result of an investigation within the meaning of article 8, 10° of the law of 1 August 2018 on

168 Jo l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131

Annual Report

165

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

organization of the National Data Protection Commission and the general data protection regime
data, is limited to providing an answer to the question posed by the Minister of Homeland Security. the opinion is
divided into three parts. after an introductory part on the composition and use of the central file, it addresses
the use of said file by the police and the legal framework to which it is subject. On the first part, devoted
to the framework of the central file by the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of security
national, will follow an analysis of the quality of the law governing the central file. the review will end with a
conclusion including recommendations for the attention of the authorities.

introduction

According to the explanations provided by the police, the central file has existed since the police services began
to write minutes and reports in order to transmit them to the judicial authorities in accordance with the law,
whereas it was necessary to have a tool allowing to ensure the adequate follow-up of these minutes and reports. THE
central file has been operational in computerized form since 2005.

the controller is the police, represented by its Director General. data entry, which
concretely corresponds to a digitization of the documents drafted by the officers and agents of the judicial police
of the police, is ensured by a dedicated service.

Police records and reports are centralized within the central file. This centralization has
as purposes the prevention of offenses on the one hand and the research and observation of offenses on the other
go. in other words, the central file is a working tool of the police which is necessary for the accomplishment
of its missions as provided for by the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal police, hereinafter referred to
“police law”.

the central file is split into two parts, one called descriptive and the other documentary.

In the descriptive part are filled metadata namely the names, first names, the aliases, the date of
birth, place of birth, country of birth, nationality, home address, registration number
and, where applicable, the date of death of the persons concerned. the data subject may be a person
natural or a legal person even if they are mainly natural persons.

the documentary part contains the minutes and reports grouped together in files. Each folder
corresponds to a data subject. a unique file number is assigned to each person concerned.
This same person can be linked to several different documents depending on the number of cases in
which it is involved and which gave rise to a report or report.

annual report 166 2019 cnpd

to get a more precise idea of the volume, configuration and use of the central file, data
encrypted that the Cnpd has been able to inspect directly from police systems can be useful:

• as of July 29, 2019 the system contained 511,499 files. Of this total, 309,175 cases are said
"archived" (i.e. all of the documents relating thereto were archived and consultation of these documents is not
therefore not possible without additional procedure). There are therefore 202,324 files remaining for which at least one
document was not archived. It should also be noted that these files do not only concern people
residents or of Luxembourg nationality, but all persons in whose name a report
or report was written by the police. 89% of files consist of less than 5 documents, 11% of
files contain between 6 and 50 documents and less than 1% of files contain more than 50 documents.

• Over the period from 2010 to 2019, an average of 15,157 new files were created per year. in terms
new documents thus injected into the system, this amounts to an average of 55,947 documents/
year. It should be noted that these figures do not vary significantly over this period.

• Over the period from 2010 to 2019, an average of 176,550 searches were carried out per year in
the system to identify whether or not a person is present in the system. It is, however, to be noted
that searches peaked in 2012 with 239,460 searches and have been declining since then
permanent and for the year 2018 stand at 114,802. This is therefore a reduction of more than half
over the past 7 years. note that a search for a file does not mean that the file has actually
been consulted. indeed, over the period from 2010 to 2019, an average of 36,805 files were consulted by
year. the number of file consultations peaked in 2012 with 60,270 consultations and
since then, it has been in almost permanent decline and for the year 2018 stands at 21,187 consultations, i.e. a
reduction of approximately 2/3 of consultations over the last 7 years.

According to information from the police, access to the central file is automatically granted to each new agent or officer.
judicial police, given that he may be called upon to work with this tool. regarding access and
the use of the central file, it is however important to specify that it is not because a police officer has
access to the central file that he can use it as he wishes. said use must correspond to
specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and may not be incompatible with them. for example a
police officer does not have the right to seek or consult people who are not related to the files he is
processing. the logs that are generated during searches and consultations are used in particular to be able to
detect such abuse.

during an administrative police check, consultation of the central file is generally limited to the part
signage. In this scenario, officers and/or police officers do not have direct remote access to the file.
center through a mobile device. access can only be done from a workstation hosted on the premises

Annual Report

167

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

secured by the police. thus, police officers are required to contact their colleagues via the National Integrated Network
de radiocommunication (hereinafter referred to as "renIta"), which carry out internal research on a person
given. This request allows the police officers in the field to check whether the person concerned by the intervention or the
control is the subject of a report or not. within the descriptive part of the central file, the search for a
person by entering their name or other metadata about them is possible.

the searches carried out are logged under the name of the police officer who carried out the search and not the one who
requested in advance. the tracing of calls from police officers in the field is not currently
accomplished.

when consulting a file of a data subject in the central file, a search reason
of the documentary part of the central file must be entered in order to ensure the justification and legitimacy of
the use of data contained in the central file. These can be free patterns or predefined patterns.
the predefined patterns are eighteen in number. They are called as follows: "border control
(airport)”, “internal border control”, “police framework control of foreigners”, “control
police alert framework”, “flagrante delicto/crime control”, “control in order service”, “control framework control
national", "control in judicial investigation", "control narcotics", "control morals", "control theft of
vehicles", "mutual legal assistance control", "highway code control", "environmental framework control",
“prohibited weapons control”, “control in customs investigation”, “SlCpI control”169. the three most popular reasons
used are: “national control framework control”, “SlCpI control” and “order service control”.

to have a more precise idea as to the accesses of the central file, of the encrypted data that the CnpD was able to
directly inspecting police systems can be useful:

• as of July 30, 2019, a total of 1,840 people had the necessary logical access in order to
be able to use the system to carry out research respectively consult files. note that at this
same date, only 36 people had permissions to create a new folder.
remember that the fact of having logical access expresses the possibility of using the system, but does not say
nothing on the use actually made - which must be motivated by a concrete need in relation to a file.

• Over the first 6 months of 2019, 69 police officers carried out more than 100 searches (i.e.
to identify the presence or absence of a record). a large proportion of the police seem
use the system more punctually. indeed, over this period, 589 police officers carried out between 0 and 10
searches and 487 police officers carried out between 11 and 100 searches. It should be noted that in order to be able to consult
a file, you must first carry out a search to identify it. Therefore the number of consultations
number of files is in fact therefore lower than the number of searches carried out. thus, that 19 police officers
therefore actually consulted more than 100 files over the period indicated.

169 international police cooperation liaison service/section.

annual report 168 2019 cnpd

consultation and use of archived data are much more restricted. Indeed, access to data
archived in the central file is made upon request and must be granted by the State Attorney General or
a member of its delegated prosecutor's office. the consultation had originally been based on article 2 paragraph
1st paragraph 3 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 2 October 1992 relating to the creation and operation of a bank
general police personal data, i.e. the “Ingepol” regulation which for its part had never
really been implemented, but of which certain criteria had been applied to the central file even beyond
the repeal of this regulation when the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of
of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on data protection which
is carrying out a reform in terms of data protection, also for the so-called police/justice component. In effect,
this law repealed the amended law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data.

As part of a request for access to archived data, the following information is provided in particular:
the date of the request, the applicant's login, the name of the State Attorney General or a member of his prosecution
delegate who granted access and the period during which the archive can be consulted. note that the number
However, access to the archives is more limited since, as of July 18, 2019, 106 requests had been registered and
this, since 2005.

After this factual overview of the content and operation of the central file, it is now appropriate to examine the file
central under the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.

i. The legal framework of the central file by the law of 1 August 2018 relating to the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters
national security

Directive (eu) 2016/680 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
of a personal nature by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences,
investigation and prosecution in this regard or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free movement of such
data (“Data Protection Directive for Police and Judicial Authorities in
Penalty" or "the Directive"), is intended to protect personal data collected and processed for
criminal justice purposes.

at EU level, data protection in the police and criminal justice sector is regulated
in the context of cross-border and domestic processing by United States law enforcement and criminal justice authorities
EU members and actors. at Member State level, the Data Protection Directive for
police and judicial authorities in criminal matters must be transposed into national law.

Annual Report

169

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

In its “Handbook on European data protection law”, the Fundamental Rights Agency
of the european union specifies the following: “the directive is based, to a large extent, on the principles and
definitions set out in the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), taking into account
the specific nature of the police and criminal justice fields. But although these notions are inspired by
GDPR, the directive deals with them from the specific angle of police and judicial authorities in criminal matters. by
relation to the processing of data for commercial purposes, which is governed by the Regulation, the processing of data
related to security may require a degree of flexibility. thus, providing the same level of protection
to the persons concerned in terms of the right to information, the right of access to their personal data or
deletion of these, as provided for by the rGpD, could have the consequence that a mission of
surveillance conducted for law enforcement purposes would become ineffective in a law enforcement context. the directive therefore does not
no reference to the principle of transparency.

Similarly, the principles of data minimization and purpose limitation, which require that the data to be
personal nature are limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed
and that they are processed for specified and explicit purposes, must also be applied in a flexible manner
the processing of security-related data. information collected and stored by competent authorities
for a particular case can be extremely helpful in resolving future cases. »170

the Directive is transposed into national law by the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of security
(hereinafter referred to as "the law" or "the transposition law"), which generally provides for and provides a framework
the interference that is made by the processing implemented by the files in the fundamental rights. indeed, this
law aims to transpose the directive into Luxembourg law and de facto, to set specific minimum rules
relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities referred to in Article 1 of this law. in other words, even if this law is not specifically
dedicated to the management and operation of the central file, it nevertheless oversees the processing of said file used by
the police within the framework of the missions conferred on it by the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal police.

As a preliminary point, it is necessary to analyze the provisions applicable to the processing of personal data
carried out via the central file (a) then to state the rights of the persons concerned by the processing of their
personal data through the central file (B) to finally examine the obligations of the responsible
processing as regards the management and use of said file (C).

To. the principles applicable to the processing of personal data carried out via the central file

through the central file, the police, the competent authority within the meaning of the transposition law171, carries out processing
personal data for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigations and

170 2018 Edition, p. 315-317.
171 law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, Article 2 paragraph 1 point 7.

annual report 170 2019 cnpd

prosecution or execution of criminal penalties, including protection against threats to the
public security and the prevention of such threats.

This law takes up the definition of the file as established by the directive173, namely “any structured set of
personal data accessible according to determined criteria, whether this set is centralized,
decentralized or functionally or geographically distributed”174. Since the central file is a
database comprising both a set of metadata and records, it corresponds to the present
definition.

article 3 of the transposition law sets out the principles that the processing of personal data must
respect and sets the framework with which the controller must comply. In the following articles, the law
sets out some specific provisions applicable to the processing of personal data. It's about,
among other things, the establishment of retention and review periods (1), the distinction between the different
categories of data subjects (2), the distinction between personal data and verification of
the quality of the personal data (3), the lawfulness of the processing (4) and the processing relating to
special categories of personal data (5).

1) retention and examination periods

Article 5 of the Directive gives Member States leeway in setting appropriate deadlines
for the erasure of personal data and verification of the need to retain said data.
it also mentions that procedural rules must guarantee compliance with the time limits in question175.

In its opinion of December 28, 2017 on draft law (n°7168) transposing the directive, the CnpD
considered that Article 5 of the Directive was not correctly transposed into national law. the legislator did not
however, did not follow the arguments of the CnpD.

thus, the Luxembourg legislator has chosen to entrust the controller with setting the time limits for
retention of data as well as the procedural rules to ensure compliance with these deadlines176.

in this case, it is therefore up to the Director General of Police to establish a time limit for erasing personal data.
staff and to ensure that the retention period of the latter in the central file does not exceed
what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed177.

In his response to parliamentary question no. 752, the Minister of Internal Security indicates that all
personal data are kept for 10 years from their registration in the central file. a
such duration takes into account the limitation periods as provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely 5 years

172 Ibidem, Article 1 paragraph 1.
173 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, article 3 paragraph 6.

174 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, Article 2 paragraph 1 point 6.

175 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, section 5.

176 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters and in

matters of national security, article 4.

177 Ibidem, recital 26.

Annual Report

171

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

for misdemeanors178 and 10 years for felonies179. According to the police, applying the same time limit has the advantage of
end up with an identical deadline for crimes and misdemeanors. a distinction between the seriousness of the facts based on
the category of offense no longer imposes itself between the crime and the misdemeanor if the principle of a fixed initial time limit is maintained. there
distinction according to the category of offense was moreover always delicate, whereas the same offense
may meet several qualifications, which may fall under different categories, and which may evolve over time.
course of criminal proceedings. moreover, the facts, on the basis of a category of offense observed by the police,
are likely to be reclassified subsequently by the judicial authorities during the course of the procedure.

According to information from the police, the data relating to fines is currently no longer
kept in the central file.

at the end of the 10-year period, the data is automatically archived and is deemed to be deleted
60 years after their first registration as provided for by the Grand-Ducal regulation of 1992 relating to the
creation and operation of a database of general police names180. on this subject, the CnpD is
of the opinion that the data archiving period is disproportionate to the purposes of the central file and the
police duties.

requests for access to the archiving part, which must be justified in relation to the case in progress in the
for which access is requested, are dealt with on a case-by-case basis by the State Attorney General or one of his
assistants and access is authorized if it results from the motivation of the request, for example, that these data are
necessary in the context of a current national or international criminal prosecution. the CnpD wonders about
the relevance of the application of that regulation in the present case and the proportionality of that time limit. indeed, the
CnpD has repeatedly spoken out about the obsolete nature of the Grand-Ducal regulation in question
and the need to take into account the evolution of the legislation in terms of the right to the protection of personal data.
personal character. it believes that the need for conservation should apply depending on the outcome of a
case such as dismissal, dismissal, acquittal, conviction or rehabilitation, while
preserving all the guarantees of the interested parties in the event of revision, as well as the flexibility necessary to
carry out its missions. however, without a qualified feedback from the judicial authorities, the police are not
able to meet its obligations to update or delete data.

the CnpD welcomes all the more the answer to parliamentary question n°752, according to which the police and the Ministry
public are working on setting up an automated transmission system for summary tracking information
reserved by the judicial authorities for reports transmitted by the police.

178 article 638 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
179 Ibid., article 637.
180 article 8 paragraph 2.
181 See in particular the following opinions:
 

additional opinion of 1 December 2017 from the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 7045 on the Grand Ducal police
and amending and repealing several legal provisions.

  point 4 of the opinion of 24 March 2017 of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to bill no. 7044 reforming the General Inspectorate
of the police, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to the functioning of the General Police Inspectorate and draft law n°7045 reforming the police
grand ducal,

  point 1.1 of the opinion of 17 November 2016 of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to draft law no. 6976 relating to the exchange of data

personal and police information,

  point 3 of the opinion of July 30, 2015 of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to bill no. 6759 approving the “Memorandum
of understanding between the Government of the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg and the United States of America for the exchange of terrorism screening information”,
signed in luxembourg on 20 June 2012 and to draft law no. 6762 approving the agreement between the government of luxembourg and the government of
United States of America for the purpose of strengthening cooperation in the prevention and fight against serious crime, signed in Luxembourg on February 3, 2012,
Opinion of July 25, 2013 of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to bill no. 6566 facilitating the cross-border exchange of information
concerning road safety offences.

 

annual report 172 2019 cnpd

It can also be added that the police had not put in place procedural rules182 in order to ensure the
compliance with retention periods, as well as the proportionality183 of the duration of data retention
of a personal nature, taking into account the purpose of the file and the nature or seriousness of the offenses and facts
concerned as provided for by the transposition law.

2) the distinction between different categories of data subjects

the CnpD found that within the documents included in the system, it is not technically possible
to make a distinction in a structured way between people who have committed an offense (or are suspected
of having committed an offence), persons convicted of a criminal offence, victims of offenses
criminal offenses, third parties to a criminal offense such as witnesses, contacts or associates of persons
previously referred to as provided for both by the Directive184 and by the transposition law185. records and
documents that are contained in the file are therefore not classified according to the quality of the person
concerned.

3) the distinction between personal data and verification of the quality of the data to be

personal character

the Directive provides that Member States shall provide that personal data based on facts
are, as far as possible, distinguished from those based on personal assessments186.
 
it also provides that any personal data that is not up to date cannot be
transmitted or made available. when transposing the Directive, the transposition law takes up such
provisions.

work she has done,

the CnpD did not find

the existence of reviews
during
personal information in the central file. however, the CnpD was also unable to observe the implementation
a procedure for verifying the quality of personal data by the police. In this
regard, it may be mentioned that the virtual absence of feedback from the judicial authorities with regard to the police
with regard to the files transferred to it appears to compromise the existence of such verification.
an automated transmission system for information on the follow-up of cases carried out by the authorities
judicial should nevertheless see the light of day and promote the updating of the data contained in the file
central188.

182 art 4 (2) law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well

than in terms of national security.

183 art 7 (2) law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well

than in terms of national security.

184 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, section 6.

185 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, article 5.

186 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, article 7 paragraph 1.

187 Ibidem, article 7 paragraph 2.
188 the response to parliamentary question no. 752 "the police and the public prosecutor are working on setting up an automated information transmission system
brief information on the follow-up given by the judicial authorities to the reports sent by the police, in particular to ensure that in the event of an acquittal, access to the
data by the police is deleted and that the data in question is transferred to the archiving part where it can only be accessed with authorization
writing from the State Attorney General or one of his deputies.

Annual Report

173

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

4) the purposes

In the context of the Directive, data controllers are competent public authorities or other
bodies vested with prerogatives of public power, which determine the purposes and means of processing
of personal data. the Directive imposes several obligations on the controller in order to
ensure a high level of protection of personal data processed for law enforcement purposes189.

while the Directive provides that Member States must provide that the processing is lawful only if and within
to the extent that it is necessary for the performance of a task carried out by a competent authority, for the purposes
set out in Article 1, paragraph 1190 , and where it is based on the law of the Union or the law of a Member State,
the transposition law provides that this same processing is lawful only if and insofar as it is necessary for
the performance of the missions of the competent authority […] for one of the purposes set out in Article 1 and when
this mission is carried out in application of the legislative provisions governing the competent authority concerned. This
transposition reduces the scope of the cases in which a processing operation may be lawful to those, where the tasks
for the execution of which it is necessary are carried out in application of the legislative provisions governing
the relevant competent authority, in this case the police and whose purposes are covered by Article 1 of the Directive. He
it follows that even in the absence of more explicit legislation or documentation on the specific purposes
of the central file, its legality cannot be contested.

5) the processing of special categories of personal data within the

central file

sensitive data must be subject to special protection when they are processed and
these should only take place in cases of absolute necessity and be limited to the following conditions:

“(a) when authorized by European Union law or pursuant to this law or another

provision of Luxembourg law;

 b) to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person, or
 c) when the processing relates to data manifestly made public by the data subject.

during the work carried out, the CnpD was unable to observe the implementation of measures offering guarantees
specific additional information regarding the processing of sensitive data carried out by the police through the file
central.

the processing implemented by the police through said file must also confer a degree of protection
in particular with regard to minor natural persons, in accordance with recital 50 of the Directive
2016/680192, which in its body of text does not provide for specific guarantees for minors and a fortiori, its

189 Handbook on European Data Protection Law, 2018 Edition, European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights and Council of Europe,

p. 320.

190 Article 1, 1. this Directive lays down rules relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of penalties
criminal justice, including the protection against threats to public security and the prevention of such threats.

191 Ibid., article 9.
192 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, recital 50.

annual report 174 2019 cnpd

transposition law either. on the other hand, the law of 10 August 1992 relating to the protection of young people emphasizes the
need for such protection in its own right even if it does not explicitly provide for data protection
minor natural persons as such. thus, the special status of minors and the rules of the law
of 1992 require compliance with specific processing criteria, reflected at the level of registration,
storage, access and subsequent use of this data.

to have a more precise idea as to the accesses of the central file, of the encrypted data that the CnpD was able to
directly inspecting police systems can be useful:

• Over the period from 2010 to 2019, an average of 849 new files were created per year concerning
minors. It should be noted that these creations peaked in 2013 with 1,239 new
files and thereafter decreased in 2018 to 638 new files.

• Over the period from 2010 to 2019, an average of 820 files were consulted per year. It should be noted that in order
To be able to consult a file, you must first carry out a search to identify it. the consultations of
records had peaked in 2013 with 1,622 consultations and subsequently declined in 2018 to
423 consultations.

Despite the clear presence of documents concerning minors in the central file, an implementation of
specific guarantees relating to the processing of their personal data is lacking. On
question, it was confirmed to us that a free text field within the file would be used to make the police
Note that he is a minor.

b. the rights of the persons concerned by the processing of their personal data through the file

central

the directive grants data subjects rights relating to the processing of their personal data.
personal character in order to allow them to keep control over them. It is up to the manager
processing to facilitate the exercise of these rights and it must provide concise, understandable information
and easily accessible in clear and simple terms by appropriate means.

the law transposing the Directive takes up these rights, although with a certain flexibility and a lesser
degree of transparency compared to the rights of the data subject as they arise from the GDPR. the people
whose personal data are being processed must be informed by the person responsible for the
processing as regards said processing (1), data subjects may also exercise a right of access to their
data (2) and they have the right to rectify or erase data (3). or, depending on the case, the
police may delay or limit, in whole or in part, the exercise of the rights of data subjects (4).

193 the quality of the law of 10 August 1992 on the protection of young people in this respect is the subject of discussions in part II of this opinion.

Annual Report

175

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

1) the information of the persons concerned by the data controller

the Directive194 and the transposition law determine a minimum of data that the data controller
processing must make available to the data subject. It is the responsibility of the police to provide people
whose data is processed in the central file the identity and contact details of the controller,
the contact details of the data protection officer, the purposes of the processing for which the
personal data, the possibility of lodging a complaint with the CnpD or the authority of
judicial control and the ability to exercise the right of access to personal data, their rectification or
their erasure.

the controller may, in specific cases, provide additional information in order to
allow the data subject to exercise his rights. This is the legal basis of the processing, the duration of
storage of personal data or the criteria used to determine this period. the manager
of the treatment can also indicate the categories of recipients of the data in question and say if these
were collected without the knowledge of the data subject or not196.

the CnpD was able to observe that the police publish a number of general information on its website, including
his address, the contact details of the data protection officer and the rights conferred on the persons
concerned197. more specific information about the processing of data through the central file made
default.

2) right of access of the data subject

In accordance with the Directive198 and the transposition law199, data subjects may ask the
police whether or not their personal data is contained in the central file and whether therefore
they are dealt with by the police. in the event of an affirmative answer to such a question, access to the
data can be obtained regarding information relating to the purposes of the processing as well as its basis
legal, to the categories of personal data concerned, to the recipients who are established in
third countries or international organisations. the police, where possible, are also required to indicate
the retention period of the personal data or the criteria applied to determine the duration of
the conversation. In such a case, the police must also inform the person concerned of their right
rectification or erasure. the right to lodge a complaint with the CnpD and the supervisory authority
judicial must also be communicated, as must the data undergoing ongoing processing and the
information about their sources.

194 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, section 13.

195 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, Article 12, paragraph 1.

196 Ibidem, article 12, paragraph 2.
197 See the publications on the website of the Grand Ducal Police at https://police.public.lu/fr/support/aspects-legaux/2018-rgpd.html, consulted for the

last time on 08/29/2019.

198 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, section 14.

199 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, article 13.

annual report 176 2019 cnpd

the police have provided procedures for the implementation of the right of access of persons who request it.
the possibility of exercising said right, the steps to be taken as well as the contact details of the data protection officer
police data is publicly displayed on its website200.

3) right to rectification or erasure of personal data

It is the controller's responsibility to rectify data that is inaccurate. the data must be
erased by the controller where the processing of such data constitutes a breach of the principles
set out in the transposing law, a breach of the lawfulness of the processing or a breach of the provisions
relating to sensitive data. erasure can also take place when the controller is there
coerced in order to comply with a legal obligation.

the recipients of the personal data must be informed of the erasure or rectification of the
given by the data controller in order to take this into account202.

Fact is to note that the police communicate as to the possibility that the persons concerned have of exercising
their right to rectification or erasure of personal data.

4) limitation of the rights granted to data subjects

due to the specific nature of police activities, the Directive and a fortiori the transposition law, provide
that the police can limit the rights of data subjects. the police can thus delay, limit or refuse
informing the persons concerned or even completely or partially limiting their access to the data
concerning them. This limitation must be necessary and proportionate in a democratic society, taking into account
account the purpose of the processing in question and take into account fundamental rights and legitimate interests
of the natural person concerned. therefore, the police must assess on a case-by-case basis whether to invoke a
limitation, in order to:

- avoid interfering with investigations, research or official or legal proceedings,
- to avoid prejudice to the prevention or detection of criminal offences, to the investigation or prosecution thereof;

matters or the execution of criminal sanctions,

- to protect public safety,
- to protect national security and national defence, or
- to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

200 See the publications on the Grand Ducal Police website at https://police.public.lu/fr/support/aspects-legaux/2018-rgpd.html, consulted for the

last time on 08/29/2019.

201 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters and in

matters of national security, Article 15(2).

202 Ibidem, article 15 paragraph 6.
203 https://police.public.lu/fr/support/aspects-legaux/2018-rgpd.html, last accessed on 29/08/2019.
204 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, Article 12 paragraph 3, Article 14, Article 15 paragraph 4.

Annual Report

177

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

when the police oppose a limitation of his rights to a data subject, they are however obliged to inform
the person concerned of the possibility that he has to exercise his rights through the intermediary of the CnpD or the authority
of judicial review. in the event that the person concerned makes use of this possibility, the CnpD or the authority of
judicial control informs at least the person concerned that it has carried out all the checks
necessary or for examination. the competent supervisory authority also informs the data subject of its
right to appeal to the courts.205

the CnpD does not have information on the limitation of the rights of individuals implemented by the police
and therefore cannot comment on the proportionality of the procedures applied.

after analyzing the rights available to data subjects to control their personal data
personnel while these are processed by the police via the central file, it is now necessary to
review the obligations that the data controller must fulfill.

vs. the obligations of the data controller with regard to the management and use of said file

the entry into application of the GDPR and the Directive causes a paradigm shift since it aims to
make data controllers responsible for verifying and controlling the legality of data processing
personal data that they implement as well as the implementation of adequate guarantees in order to
protect the persons concerned by said processing. the system of prior authorization whether by
request to the CnpD or by Grand-Ducal regulation and prior notification to process the data
of a personal nature is therefore no longer appropriate. the system of a priori control now gives way to a system
a posteriori control by the supervisory authority in order to assess the compliance of the processing with the legal framework in
data protection applicable in different respects, namely, compliance with the principles set out in the
Directive, or even its transposition law, respect for the rights of the person concerned, as well as the obligations
of the controller.

the Directive and the transposition law define what a controller is. thus, the responsible
processing is “the competent authority which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of processing personal data; when the purposes and means of this processing are
determined by European Union law or Luxembourg law, the controller or the
specific criteria applicable to its designation may be provided for by the law of the European Union or the law
Luxembourgish”206. in this case, the competent authority which determines the purposes and means of the processing is
the Grand-Ducal police represented by its Director General.

the Directive207 and the transposition law208 confer obligations on the data controller. the police
must take appropriate and effective measures to guarantee and be able to demonstrate at all times that the

205 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, article 16.

206 Ibidem, article 2 paragraph 8.
207 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, Article 19 et seq.

208 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, article 18 et seq.

annual report 178 2019 cnpd

processing of personal data is carried out in such a way as to preserve the rights and freedoms of individuals
concerned in a democratic society. It is incumbent on the police to strike the right balance between the exercise of
its missions and the observance of appropriate data protection policies.

These are general obligations 1), an obligation regarding data security 2) and an obligation regarding
the appointment of a data protection officer 3).

1) general obligations

the general obligations incumbent on the police with regard to the management and use of the central file
are: data protection by design and data protection by default a), record keeping
of processing activities b), logging c) and impact analysis d).

a) data protection by design and data protection by default

It is the responsibility of the data controller when managing and using a file such as the central file,
to integrate, from the design of the file or once it is operational, the respect and the implementation of the
data protection principles.

thus, by default, the police must in particular ensure that only the personal data which are necessary
with regard to each specific processing purpose are processed and access to them is limited to a minimum.

Data protection by design and by default are obligations introduced by the GDPR and the
Directive. while the CnpD recognizes that de facto, they therefore did not exist when the central file was created,
the CnpD nevertheless considers that the permanent reassessment of the adequacy of the data protection measures
implemented with regard to the legal obligations incumbent upon it, should have led the police to an in-depth review,
or even an overhaul of access mechanisms at the central file level.

in fact, permanent access to the central file for almost 2,000 police officers, even in the absence of cases of abuse
demonstrated, compared to the real need for consultation on the ground, must be considered inadequate.
Even in the absence of a major overhaul of the access mechanism, the CnpD believes that the police could and
had to implement measures such as setting up log reviews to detect any suspicious access
to mitigate the risk of abuse and ensure the protection of citizens' data.

b) record of processing activities

to be able to provide proof that he meets the obligations imposed on him by the Directive, respectively the law of

Annual Report

179

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

transposition, the controller must internally document its data processing activities. Thus,
the transposition law requires the controller to keep a register of all categories of activities
processing carried out under its responsibility. it provides in a clear and precise manner the information that
should be included, namely:

“(a) the name and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the joint controller of the

processing and the data protection officer;

 b) the purposes of the processing;
 c) the categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be communicated,

including recipients in third countries or international organisations;

 d) a description of the categories of data subjects and the categories of personal data,
 e) where applicable, the use of profiling;
 f) where applicable, the categories of transfers of personal data to a third country or to a

international organisation ;

 g) an indication of the legal basis of the processing operation, including transfers, to which the data

of a personal nature are intended;

 h) as far as possible, the deadlines for the erasure of the different categories of data from

personal character;

 i) as far as possible, a general description of the technical and organizational security measures

referred to in Article 28, paragraph 1209”210.

on July 5, 2019 and in accordance with the transposition law211, the police made its processing register available
of the CnpD. the CnpD found that the register contains information relating to the central file, but that
these are incomplete. the CnpD draws attention to the essential role played by this register with regard to the
compliance of processing with the law. indeed, the police are not in a position to comply with the principle of
accountability as long as it has not inventoried all the processing operations with a minimum level of detail such as
than required by law.

c) Logging

competent authorities must keep a log of the processing operations they carry out in systems
automated processing. At a minimum, logs should be kept for the collection, modification,
consultation, communication, including transfers, interconnection and erasure of personal data
personal212.

the Directive provides that the logs of consultation and communication operations must make it possible to establish
the reasons, the date and time of these and, as far as possible, the identification of the person who

209 article relating to the security of the processing in particular that of sensitive data.
210 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, Article 23 paragraph 1.

211 Ibid., article 23 paragraph 3.
212 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, Article 25(1).

annual report 180 2019 cnpd

consulted the system or communicated personal data, as well as the identity of the recipients of the
personal data. the logs are used solely for the purpose of verifying the legality of the
processing, self-control, guarantee of the integrity and security of personal data and to
purposes of criminal proceedings.

during its on-site visits to the police, the CnpD noted the existence of log files in the
central file level. However, the CnpD must note that the logging mechanisms do not
do not make it possible to achieve in practice all of the purposes as set out in the law. thus, the verification of
the legality of each consultation seems difficult on the basis of the limited contextual information that is included
in the diary (i.e. only a summary generic motivation is included in the diary). also, since the practice
common practice is that officers in the field do not access the file directly, but instead call
to police officers at the rIFo level, the identification of the person who ultimately consulted the system cannot be
systematically traced with reasonable effort.

d) impact assessment and prior consultation of the competent supervisory authority

the transposition law imposes a new exercise, namely carrying out an analysis of the impact that the
envisaged processing operations have on the data subjects. such an analysis is carried out a priori before
that said processing is put in place214.

It is recognized that each analysis must be re-evaluated, either when significant changes affecting the treatment
have taken place, i.e. at least every three years, in order to check its adequacy with possible changes
organizational or technical matters that may have occurred in the meantime.

the police will have to consult the CnpD when the impact analysis indicates that the processing presents a high risk
for the rights and freedoms of data subjects which cannot be mitigated through organizational measures
and techniques. the CnpD notes that so far it has not been consulted regarding the central file.

Given the entry into force of the transposition law, such an analysis is mandatory for the year 2021 at the latest,
or before in the event of major changes to the treatment.

2) the security of the data that the controller must guarantee

the Directive215 obliges the data controller to guarantee data security by securing data
treatments. indeed, it states that it is important that "personal data be processed in a manner
in such a way as to guarantee an appropriate level of security and confidentiality, in particular by preventing unauthorized access
authorized to these data and to the equipment used for their processing as well as the unauthorized use of these

213 Ibid., article 25, paragraph 2.
214 Ibidem, article 26 paragraph 1.
215 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, section 29.

Annual Report

181

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

data and this equipment and to take into account the state of knowledge and available technology, the
implementation costs with regard to the risks and the nature of the personal data to be protected”216.

the transposition law imposes 10 types of controls and guarantees217 that the controller must
implement following an assessment of the risks that the processing may have on the rights and freedoms
of the persons concerned. These are the control of access to installations, the control of data carriers,
retention control, user control, data access control, data privacy control,
transmission, the control of the introduction, the control of the transport, the guarantee of the restoration and in fine of
the guarantee of the reliability of the system and its integrity.

a more in-depth analysis of the security conferred by the police on the personal data processed
via the central file would provide a more precise idea of compliance with the said obligation. the goal
of this opinion is not, however, to carry out a dedicated audit of the “security” component. however, during the works
preparations for this opinion certain points of attention relating to this last section have been raised by the CnpD and
communicated to the police.

3) the data protection officer

the Directive entrusts the controller with the appointment of a data protection officer
(hereinafter referred to as "the delegate"), "which would help him to verify compliance at the internal level with the provisions adopted
under this Directive”. This function is new and is part of the principle of accountability
of the controller inherent in the GDPR and the Directive.

the transposition law provides for this obligation219 by specifying the professional qualities220 and the obligation to
publish the contact details of the Data Protection Officer221. it also provides for the function of the delegate to
data protection, as well as the tasks of the latter. in this respect, it should be recalled that the delegate
to the protection of personal data must inform and advise the controller and
the employees, in this case, the police represented by its Director General with regard to the obligations incumbent on them
taking into account both EU law and Luxembourg law222.

It is up to the said delegate to check compliance with the transposition law, European Union law and the law
nationally by the police223.

the delegate is also required to cooperate with the competent supervisory authority and act as a point of contact
for it and for the persons concerned.

216 Ibidem, recital 28.
217 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, Article 28 paragraph 2.

218 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, OJ l 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89–131, recital 63. See also articles
32 to 34 of the directive.

219 Law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in

matters of national security, Article 31 paragraph 1.

220 Ibid., paragraph 2.
221 Ibid., paragraph 4.
222 Ibidem, Article 33, paragraph 1.
223 Ibid., paragraph 2.

annual report 182 2019 cnpd

the CnpD notes that the police have appointed a data protection officer and have made the contact details public
of the latter and that the latter has been associated with the files relating to the processing of data carried out by the police
through the central file.

It is now necessary to analyze the quality of the legal framework governing the central file.

ii. Analysis of the quality of the legal framework governing the central file

respect for fundamental rights is not absolute since an interference with them is recognized in Article
52 paragraph 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as “the Charter”). in
Indeed, this article provides that “any limitation of the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognized by this Charter must
be provided for by law”. the European Convention on Human Rights (hereinafter referred to as ECHR) for its part,
also makes this limitation possible while linking it to respect for private and family life, for example225.
the importance of providing by law for interference with fundamental rights and freedoms is also taken up
by the abundant case law of the High European Courts226.

the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character in criminal matters as well as in matters of security regulates the interference in the rights and
freedoms of individuals caused by the processing implemented by the police via the central file. nevertheless,
the latter cannot simply provide for the interference with fundamental rights
and freedoms by the police in criminal matters. it must also demonstrate quality, in accordance with the
European case law.

the transposition law is not the only one to legally regulate the central file and the resulting processing
by the police. As previously mentioned, the law of July 18, 2018 on the police provides for and regulates the
missions of the latter which indisputably fall within the scope of application of article 1 of the law
of transposition. the existence of the central file can therefore be qualified as lawful insofar as the processing
carried out are necessary for the performance of police duties.

Resulting from the needs related to the missions of the police as described in its organic law, the central file is
closely framed by the Directive and the very generous transposition law both in its definition and its interpretation
concerning the purposes of a processing falling within its field of competence, that when distributing the
prerogatives of the data controller. Without dwelling now on the analysis of conformal transposition
of the Directive in national law, one can nevertheless ask questions as to the taking into account of the
general principles of the subject as set out in the conventions signed under the aegis of the Council of Europe

224 Official Journal, C 326, 26.10.2012, p.391-407.
225 Article 8 paragraph 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, signed in Rome on 4.XI.1950.
226 judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, eu:C:201:2014:238, point 38; opinion 1/15, of September 8, 2016, eu:C:2016:656,
ECtHR, Kopp c. Switzerland, no. 23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 56 to 61; ECtHR, amann v. Switzerland [GC], no. 27798/95, 16 February 2000, para. 46 to 54; Court
eDH, Brunet v. France, n°21010, 18 December 2014, para.35.

Annual Report

183

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union
on the one hand, and constitutional principles on the other.

the quality of the law in criminal matters, is assessed with regard to compliance with the principle of legality of incriminations.
indeed, the legality of penalties is the enunciation in the law of the incriminated behaviors227. it has the effect of
“ensure the best possible knowledge of criminal law; promote predictability and security in the
social exchanges”228, guaranteeing the principle of the hierarchy of norms and the separation of powers and thereby,
limit the arbitrariness of the judge. at the supranational level, this principle is enshrined in the ECHR in its article 7, which
perceives as an absolute right from which no one can derogate. the quality of the law is considered a principle
general law of the European Union.

the following part aims to analyze the quality of the legal framework governing the central file managed and operated by
the Grand-Ducal police on the one hand (a) and to compare the national legal framework with that of other Member States on the other
share (B).

To. the quality of the legal framework with regard to compliance with the general principles relating to the processing of data

personal character in criminal matters

As a preliminary point, it should be recalled that the Directive provides conditions for the lawfulness of the processing carried out by
competent criminal and national security authorities. indeed, it provides that for
be lawful, the processing must be necessary for the performance of a mission of the competent authority, correspond to the
purposes for which it was set up but also and above all, it must be provided for either by union law,
or by the law of a Member State231. furthermore, the Directive specifies that the national provision regulating the said
processing must at least specify: the purposes of the processing, the personal data to be the subject
processing and the purposes of the processing.

the General Data Protection Regulation, for its part, also provides that the basis for processing
with regard to the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
controller is defined by the law of the union or the law of the Member State to which the controller
treatment is submitted233.

in order to better analyze the national provision relating to the principle of lawfulness of processing and in order to be
as precise as possible, article 7 paragraph 1 of the law transposing the Directive can be cited here. It provides that:

“processing is lawful only if and insofar as it is necessary for the performance of the tasks of the authority
competent authority defined in Article 2, paragraph 1, point 7°, for one of the purposes set out in Article 1 and when this
mission is carried out pursuant to the legislative provisions governing the competent authority concerned”.

227 Beccaria, C., (1870). Offenses and penalties. Guillaumin.
228 Cartuyvels Y., “The paradigms of modern criminal law in the “postmodern” period: evolutions and transformations, in Massé M., J-p. Jean, Giudicelli a. (under the

dir), (2009). postmodern criminal law? Putting contemporary evolutions and ruptures into perspective. Presses Universitaires de France, p. 77.

229 Cartuyvels Y., Guillain C., Kerchove M., tulkens F. (ed.), (2010), Introduction to criminal law. legal and criminological aspects, Brussels, Kluwer, p. 225.
230 Treaty on European Union, OJEU, C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 13-390, article 6 paragraph 3.
231 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, Article 8(1).

232 Ibidem, Article 8 paragraph 2.
233 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), Article
6, paragraph 1, point e, paragraph 3, point b.

annual report 184 2019 cnpd

in this case, there is no doubt that the management and use of the central file are part of the missions
of the police as provided for by the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal police.

If the law of July 18, 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police contains a chapter specifically dedicated to the treatment of
personal data, the said chapter only regulates access by the police to the files of other administrations
such as among others “the file of foreigners operated on behalf of the Foreigners Service of the Minister having
Immigration in his attributions”234, “the prohibited weapons file of the Minister having Justice in his
attributions”235 or even “the companies file of the trade and companies register”236. indeed, the CnpD
regrets that this chapter does not include a provision relating to the processing of personal data
within the framework of the management and exploitation of files by the police itself. said law does not specify
more than the terms and conditions of such processing of personal data by the police can do
the subject of a Grand-Ducal regulation.

Nor is it up to the transposing law to expressly provide for such processing. Indeed, this law has
for the purpose of guaranteeing the protection of data in criminal matters and in matters of national security. It's about
a framework law which provides general rules applicable to the competent authorities in the matter. she is not
specifically dedicated to the management and exploitation of files by the police.

to meet the criteria of European case law, the processing of personal data
contained in the central file must meet specific, explicit and legitimate purposes. however, the purposes
specific to the central file, explicitly defined and accessible to citizens are neither recorded in a notice
information on the operation of the latter or in the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand Ducal police,
whereas under the provisions of the transposition law the data controller, in this case the police
ducale represented by its Director General, must implement the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing is carried out in accordance with this law237.
It may be added that it is also not up to the law transposing the Directive to specify the purposes of all the
processing falling within its scope of which the central file is part.

In the spirit of the paradigm shift at the level of compliance control in terms of data protection,
data, the national legislator can certainly delegate important responsibilities to the data controller,
it is still necessary that the latter fully embraces them. Only compliance with its obligations by the person responsible for the
processing makes it possible to guarantee the respect of the rights of the persons concerned.

in order to fulfill the criteria of accessibility and predictability of the law, on the one hand, and thus limit possible
arbitrary and abusive behavior on the part of the competent authority, on the other hand, national law may provide
and more specifically regulate the management and use of files by the police. This is the reason why,
the European Court of Human Rights in its case law affirms that “domestic law must provide

234 law of 18 July on the Grand-ducal police, article 43 point 3°.
235 Ibid., point 10.
236 Ibid., point 11.

Annual Report

185

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

a certain protection against arbitrary attacks by the public authorities on the rights guaranteed by article
8 paragraph 1”238. therefore, the law “must define the extent and manner of exercise of power with
sufficient clarity – taking into account the legitimate aim pursued – to provide the individual with adequate protection
against arbitrariness”239. the court of justice of the european union considers that in the event of a limitation of the protection of
personal data or the right to respect for private life a legal text "must provide clear rules
and precise rules governing the scope and application of the measure in question and imposing minimum requirements so as to
that the persons whose data have been retained have sufficient guarantees to protect
effectively their personal data against the risk of misuse as well as against any access and any
unlawful use of such data”.

In the response to parliamentary question no. 752, the Ministers specify that the law of 1 August 2018
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in
criminal matters as well as in matters of national security constitutes the legal basis of the central file.

That being said, the CnpD wishes to draw attention to the fact that national law provides for and regulates the use of
specific data such as DNA241 profiles, data collected as part of acquisition control
and the possession of weapons242 or the data contained in passenger name records243. the act of framing
the central file more legally, would therefore not constitute a precedent in this area for the legislator
Luxembourgish. If, in the opinion of the CnpD, it is not a question of overcoming a lack of legal basis as to the legality
of the central file, the fact remains that a more specific legislative precision as to the precise purposes
and as regards the conditions and procedures for the management and use of the central file would undoubtedly contribute to
improve the quality of the law.

such a clarification would meet the requirements of the case law of the Constitutional Court according to which "in
the matters reserved by the Constitution to the law, the main part of the normative framework must result from the law, including
the purposes, conditions and methods according to which less essential elements may be regulated by
regulations and decrees issued by the Grand Duke”. There is no doubt that the data processing carried out
by the authorities competent in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security constitute interference
in the right to respect for private life and the right to data protection, so that the conditions and
The terms of this processing must be provided for in law. As already mentioned, the legislator
Luxembourg has opted for a very broad approach of making the data controller responsible for
terms of the transposition law. with regard to article 1.3 of the Directive, the CnpD considers that a legal framework
stricter obligations of the latter would increase the quality of the law and thereby the guarantees for people
concerned.

238 ECtHR, amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95 para 56.
239 Ibid. See also Court of Human Rights, Malone v. United Kingdom, series a n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; Court of Human Rights, Fernández Martínez c. Spain
Ce:eCHr:2014:0612JuD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court eDH, liberty and others c. 58243/00 of 1 July 2008, para. 62 and 63;
ECtHR, rotaru c. romania, app. no. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court eDH, S and Marper c. United Kingdom, applications n°30562/04 and 30566/04,
of December 4, 2008 para. 99.; Dimitrov-Kazakov v. Bulgaria n°11379/03, of February 10, 2011.

240 judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, eu:C:2014:238, paragraph 54.
241 amended law of 25 August 2006 relating to identification procedures by genetic fingerprints in criminal matters and amending the Code of instruction

criminal, articles 5 and following.

242 amended law of 25 March 1983 on arms and ammunition, article 5 paragraph 4 which will soon be repealed. See in this regard bill no. 7425 on: 1°
transposition of directive (eu) 2017/853 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 may 2017 amending directive 91/477/EEC of the Council relating to the control
the acquisition and possession of weapons; 2° modification of the Penal Code, and 3° repeal of the law of 20 April 1881 concerning the transport and trade of
explosive materials. It may be useful to note that in its opinion of July 8, 2019 relating to the aforementioned bill, the CnpD emphasizes that the said bill must
proof of more details as to certain elements relating to the processing of data carried out via the weapons file which will replace its predecessor, namely the
prohibited weapons and authorizations file. the Cnpd comes here again to highlight the importance of the quality of the law.

243 law of 1 August 2018 on the processing of passenger name record data in the context of the prevention and suppression of terrorism and crime

serious and amending the law of 5 July reorganizing the State Intelligence Service.

annual report 186 2019 cnpd

The same applies to certain other aspects of this file such as retention periods, the access procedure
restricted to certain data or even specific guarantees intended for the processing of personal data
personnel relating to vulnerable natural persons, in particular children.

the Luxembourg legislator could thus usefully make use of the option left to the Member States as
than provided for in said Article 1.3 which provides that: “this Directive does not prevent Member States from
provide for more extensive safeguards than those set out in this Directive for the protection of the rights
and freedoms of data subjects with regard to the processing of personal data by the authorities
competent”. By adopting the Directive, the European legislator has carried out a minimum harmonization of the
rules applicable in this area at the level of the European Union and the Member States have the option of specifying
further the rules in their respective national legislations while respecting the framework set out by the Directive.

it should be recalled that the proposed clarifications would in principle not be included in the law transposing the Directive,
but in specific laws such as that on the police or that relating to the protection of young people.

the examination of the provisions relating to the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as
national security in the laws of neighboring countries can be useful and can serve as an example
to the Luxembourg legislator.

b. the national legal framework compared to that of other member states in this area

1) General situation

before reporting on the national legislation of the countries surrounding luxembourg, let us recall that the CnpD has
asked the data protection authorities of all the Member States of the European Union to
whether the law transposing the Directive serves as a legal basis for the processing carried out by the police through their
files or if laws or regulatory provisions specifically dedicated to the management, operation and
the use of police files have been adopted. Of the 25 responses obtained, from which the two United States must be removed
members who had not yet adopted a transposition law when the CnpD carried out its survey,
and two whose answer does not make it possible to determine their situation unambiguously, only five affirmed
that the transposition law served as the legal basis for the processing carried out by the police files. on the other hand, 16
Member States have stated that they have specifically dedicated texts. neighboring countries to luxembourg are part of
of this last group, since they provide for a legal framework specifically dedicated to the files used by the
police.

Annual Report

187

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

in France, for example, the law transposing the Directive into national law explicitly provides for the supervision by
legislative or regulatory provision any processing of personal data in criminal matters244. In
a report of October 17, 2018, mentions the effort to regularize the numerous police files245 in
France, so much so that the National Commission for Computing and Liberties (CnIl) estimated on that date that it
there are no more irregular police files since they have their own legal basis246.
in addition to the existence of a legal or regulatory basis on which the files managed and operated by
the police, the purposes of the said files are specified there. by way of example, it is specified in the description of the
taJ file that “the processing of criminal records (taJ), pursuant to articles 230-6 to 230-11 of the Code
of criminal procedure, is used in the context of judicial investigations (search for perpetrators of offences) and
administrative inquiries (such as inquiries prior to certain public or sensitive jobs)”247.

in Belgium, the law relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal nature implements the GDPR and transposes the Directive into national law. This law also provides
the need for a specific legal basis, namely a legal or regulatory text governing the processing of
personal data in criminal matters. In line with the French legislator, the Belgian legislator
provides police files with specific legal bases. Indeed, the law on the police function provides that
“when the exercise of administrative police and judicial police missions requires that the police services
structure the personal data and information referred to in Article 44/1 in such a way that they can
directly found, they are processed in an operational police database [..]”249. there
law regulates three types of files, namely "the General National Data Bank", "data banks
database", "special databases". Belgian law also specifies the purposes of these three types
of databases. For example, the General National Data Bank is used by the services of
Belgian police to carry out their missions in order to allow: “the identification of the persons referred to in article 44/5,
paragraph 1 and 3; the identification of persons having access to the B.n.G. ; the coordination and crossing of
personal data and police information; national background checks for
administrative police and judicial police; assistance with checks carried out by the police services by indicating
the measures to be taken either on the basis of a decision by the administrative police authorities or the authorities of
competent judicial police, either depending on the existence of administrative police or police
judicial; support for the definition and implementation of police and security policy”250.
 
in germany ultimately, the files managed and used by the police are mainly regulated at the level of the länder251.
for example, in the Land of Hesse, it is the police law as well as the regulations implementing this law that
provide for the implementation of an automated system for consulting police data252.

244 law n°78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms (modified), articles 88 and 89.
245 in 2009, there were 58 databases in France managed and used by the police and 27% of them had no legal basis. #1548 assembly
national, Constitution of October 4, 1958, thirteenth legislature, registered at the presidency of the national assembly on March 24, 2009. information report submitted
pursuant to article 145 of the regulation by the Commission of the constitutional laws, the legislation and the general administration of the republic on the
font files. by Mrs. Delphine BatHo and Mr. Jacques alain BenISTI, Deputies, p. 43 and following.

246 n°1335 national assembly, Constitution of October 4, 1958, Fifteenth legislature, registered at the presidency of the national assembly on October 17, 2018,
information report filed pursuant to article 145 of the regulations by the Commission on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and Administration
general of the republic, at the conclusion of the work of a fact-finding mission on the files made available to the security forces and presented by MM.
Didier parIS and pierre Morel-a-l’HuISSIer, Deputies, p.9.

247 Descriptive sheet of the “taJ: processing of criminal records” file available on the page https://www.service-public.fr/particuliers/vosdroits/F32727, consulted

for the last time on 08/24/2019.

248 July 30, 2018 law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, title 2., article 33 paragraph 1.
249 5 August 1992 law relating to the police function (updated to 19-06-2019), article 44/2 paragraph 1.
250 Ibid., article 44/7.
251 However, there are data processing operations (national processing and data exchange) regulated at federal level, especially in the BKa law, Gesetz

über das Bundeskriminalamt und die Zusammenarbeit des Bundes und der länder in kriminalpolizeilichen angelegenheiten.

252 Hessisches Gesetz über die öffentliche Sicherheit und ordnung (HSoG), see also Verordnung zur Durchführung des Hessischen Gesetzes über die öffentliche

Sicherheit und ordnung und des Hessischen Freiwilligen-polizeidienst-Gesetzes (HSoG-DVo) vom 12. Juni 2007.

annual report 188 2019 cnpd

It is therefore undeniable that the laws of neighboring countries provide for the management and use of files by the
police and specify its purposes.

2) the question of specific provisions relating to data retention periods

As mentioned above, the data controller must in particular set the appropriate deadlines for
the erasure of personal data and the establishment of procedural rules with a view to compliance with said
time limit. the CnpD questions whether it is appropriate to entrust such responsibilities to the Director General of Police
grand ducal. indeed, such leeway is likely to disregard the principles of accessibility and
predictability of the law which flow from the principle of legality of criminal law. in this regard, the European Court of
human rights within its jurisprudence affirms that “domestic law must offer some protection against
arbitrary attacks by the public authorities on the rights guaranteed by article 8 paragraph 1253”254. as a result,
the law “must define the extent and manner of exercise of the power with sufficient clarity – taking into account the purpose
lawsuit – to provide the individual with adequate protection against arbitrariness”255.

In the legislation of neighboring countries, the time limits for storing personal data within the
files managed and used by the police are fixed in legal bases dedicated specifically to these files in
question.

in France, for example, law n°2011-267 of March 14, 2011 on the orientation and programming of performance
internal security which governs the file relating to the processing of criminal records256 provides that the
data concerning persons in question are kept for 20 years. the data concerning the
minors involved are kept for 5 years and the data concerning the victims are kept
a maximum of 15 years257. such an example reveals the degree of precision of the French law which explicitly sets out the
data retention periods while distinguishing between different categories of persons
concerned.

in Belgium, the law on the police function provides that the data processed in the National Data Bank
General for judicial police purposes are archived when they are not adequate, not
relevant or excessive. archiving takes place for one year from the recording of the fact if it is a matter qualified as
contravention, ten years if it is an act qualified as an offense and thirty years if it is an act qualified as a crime, from
of the recording of the fact258. the archival period is 30 years. at the end of these 30 years, the data is
erased259.

253 European Convention on Human Rights.
254 ECtHR, amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95 para 56.
255 Ibid. See also Court of Human Rights, Malone c. United Kingdom, series a n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; Court of Human Rights, Fernández Martínez c. Spain
Ce:eCHr:2014:0612JuD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court eDH, liberty and others c. 58243/00 of 1 July 2008, para. 62 and 63;
ECtHR, rotaru c. romania, app. no. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court eDH, S and Marper c. United Kingdom, applications n°30562/04 and 30566/04,
of December 4, 2008 para. 99.; Dimitrov-Kazakov v. Bulgaria n°11379/03, of February 10, 2011.

256 the processing of judicial records (taJ) is a common file for the police and the national gendarmerie, replacing the national police StIC files

and JuDeX, from the National Gendarmerie, which have been permanently abolished.

257 law n°2011-267 of March 14, 2011 on orientation and programming for the performance of internal security, see also articles 230-6 to 230-11 of the

Code of Criminal Procedure.

258 August 5, 1992 law relating to the police function (updated to 19-06-2019), article 44/9 and following.
259 Ibid., article 44/10.

Annual Report

189

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

in germany, the länder also provide for retention and archiving periods for personal data
personnel contained in police files. This is particularly the case in the Land of Hesse whose regulations
enforcement of the police law provides that the need to retain the data must be assessed in such a way
regularly and that a verification of the adequacy of conservation must take place every 10 years. delays
conservation are also modulated according to whether it is a minor natural person or
major.

in view of the present considerations, the CnpD considers that the retention periods or at least the criteria
applicable to determine the retention period as well as the procedures for regular verification
of necessity, said deadlines deserve to be specified by the legislator in order to limit as much as possible the margin of
maneuver of the controller and guarantee the transparency, accessibility and proportionality of said
time limit.

3) the question of specific provisions relating to vulnerable persons and sensitive data

according to its recitals, the Directive provides that "the measures taken by the controller
should include the establishment and implementation of specific safeguards for the processing of
personal data relating to vulnerable natural persons, such as children”.

In its body, the Directive does not provide for specific provisions relating to the processing of
personal data of minors by the data controllers it targets, while
as the transposition law restricts itself from doing.

the law of 10 August 1992 on the protection of young people does not mention such protection either.

Luxembourg legislation therefore also differs in this respect if we compare it with those of neighboring countries. in
Indeed, France and Germany provide specific safeguards for the processing of personal data
minors when they are contained in police files261.
 
Conclusion

the processing of personal data as carried out by the Grand Ducal police through the file
central is governed by the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security and by
the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police which explicitly provides for the missions of the latter.
together, these two laws provide a legal basis and make lawful the processing of data relating to the file
central.

260 Directive, recital 50.
261 See in this sense the developments made in the previous point.

annual report 190 2019 cnpd

however, the use of the central file raises a number of questions regarding the compliance of the processing
to the provisions of the transposing law.

In the spirit of the paradigm shift in control in the field of data protection,
the legislator has instructed the person responsible for processing in criminal matters and national security to respect the
legal obligations. It is responsible for defining the appropriate data protection policies and
to implement the appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to
demonstrate at any time that the processing is carried out in accordance with the transposition law.

with regard to the central file, it is indisputable that the Grand Ducal police, as responsible for the
processing is currently unable to fully demonstrate this compliance, which jeopardizes the
guarantee of the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned, as well as the confidence that citizens have in this
important institution.

This de facto situation leads the CnpD to conclude that the current situation requires an intervention that goes beyond
beyond the strict perimeter of the Grand Ducal police in order to guarantee effective protection of the rights of individuals
concerned.

In this perspective and in order to better regulate the obligations of the controller in this case and of
In general, to improve the quality of the law governing the matter, the CnpD proposes that the legislator specify
national legislation in this regard, pursuant to Article 1.3 of the Directive and in the light of the case law of the
High European courts.

thus, the law on the police should be supplemented by provisions specifying, among other things, the principle and the purposes
specific to the files operated by the Grand-Ducal police for the purposes of carrying out its missions, the deadlines
data retention or the criteria applicable to determine the data retention periods,
as well as the other essential aspects of the data processing carried out by the Grand Ducal police, such as
developed earlier in this opinion.

therefore, the legislative measures to be adopted should specify the general legislative framework laid down by the law of
transposition as regards the essential aspects of data processing, but also provide for the possibility of adopting
Grand-Ducal regulations to regulate the less essential modalities, in the light of the case law of the
Constitutional Court.

in the meantime, the National Commission is calling on the Grand Ducal police to comply as quickly as possible
possible to the obligations resulting from the law transposing Directive (eu) 2016/680 and more particularly
at the following points:

Annual Report

191

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

- establish the complete documentation relating to the central file specifying both the object and the specific purposes
of the latter, as well as the technical and organizational measures adopted taking into account the nature,
scope, the context of the processing purposes and the risks.

- review the access to the central file granted with regard to their need, whereas at present, there seems to be
have a discrepancy between the large number of accesses granted to the central file and the actual use of these
access.

Set up logging in accordance with article 24 of the transposition law and more particularly:

• take steps to ensure that the identity of the person who made a tracing request
(in particular by telephone) can be traced in the event that an agent performs on behalf of
on the other, research in the central file;

• ensure that the journals are kept in accordance with the rules of the transposition law.

- Set unambiguous appropriate retention periods and establish procedural rules to ensure the

compliance with these deadlines and more particularly:

• improve transparency and precision regarding retention periods;

• check the adequacy of the retention period of the active part with regard to the limitation periods

applicable;

 
• check the proportionate nature of the retention period of the archive part.

Convinced that an improvement in the protection of the rights of data subjects may result, the
National Commission welcomes the cooperation of the Grand Ducal police and the Public Prosecutor's Office with a view to
establishment of an automated transmission system for brief information on the follow-up reserved by the authorities
judicial proceedings to the minutes transmitted by the Grand Ducal police and encourages the protagonists to advance
their work quickly.

in the meantime and so that the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned, whose data appear in the file
central, are guaranteed, the CnpD considers it necessary to set up a manual transmission mechanism
between the judicial authorities and the Grand Ducal police, so that the latter is able to guarantee the accuracy
and updating data.

annual report 192 2019 cnpd

with regard to the elements currently available to the CnpD regarding the structure and configuration of the central file,
it would like to point out that the Grand Ducal police will not be able to hide behind technical constraints to
justify non-compliance. It is then the responsibility of the data controller to take all necessary measures
necessary to ensure that it is able to fully respect the rights of data subjects – even
if this requires the redevelopment of a computer system.

the National Commission also calls on the competent authorities to support the Grand Ducal police
in its compliance work, in particular by providing it with the resources necessary for this
END.

finally, the National Commission suggests that the competent authorities specify and implement safeguards
specific for the processing of personal data relating to vulnerable individuals
such as children.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on September 13, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

Annual Report

193

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the procedures for managing the identification
of persons and the categories of data contained in the reference directories
identification of patients and providers.

Deliberation n°50/2019 of October 18, 2019

In accordance with Article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free
movement of this data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as "the GDPR"), each authority
of control has the task of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”. article 7 of the law of the 1st
August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general system
on data protection specifically provides that the National Commission for Data Protection
(hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it by virtue of
of article 57 of the GDPR.

by letter dated July 26, 2019, the Minister of Social Security sent the National Commission
a series of amendments to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the procedures for managing identification
of persons and the categories of data contained in the reference directories for the identification of patients and
service providers (hereinafter “the amendments”), as well as a coordinated text of said draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

as a reminder, on 21 December 2018262, the CnpD issued an initial opinion on the draft grand-
ducal specifying the procedures for managing the identification of persons and the categories of data contained
in the reference directories for the identification of patients and service providers (hereinafter “the draft regulation
grand-ducal”) in which she underlined the importance of giving a legal basis to the identity monitoring system
developed by the national agency for information shared in the field of health (hereinafter referred to as
“the eSanté agency”) on the one hand, and to the reference directories for the identification of patients and service providers
health care, on the other hand, by making it possible to guarantee the objectives of security and quality of information which
underlie the implementation of these tools by the eSanté agency. the Council of State had already ruled on the project
Grand-Ducal Regulation in an opinion issued on November 27, 2018.

the National Commission notes that some of its observations have been taken into account by the authors of the
amendments. it thus intends to limit its observations to the amendments to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
for which the authors did not follow the recommendations of the CnpD.

262 Deliberation n°491/2018 of December 21, 2018.

annual report 194 2019 cnpd

Ad Amendment 1

the new paragraph 4 of article 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, created by point 4 of the amendment
1st, still provides for the implementation of rules for tracing access to the national electronic platform
exchange and sharing of health data (hereinafter: “the platform”). however, given the title
of the project under opinion, which remains unchanged following the amendments submitted to us, the CnpD can only
reiterate the position of the Council of State expressed in its opinion of November 27, 2018, having wondered whether
“the provision under review does not go beyond the scope of article 60ter, paragraph 2, of the Code of
social security insofar as the platform constitutes the entry point to several systems for processing
data, including that which is the subject of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. 263 As the CnpD noted in its
opinion of December 21, 2018, said platform allows healthcare professionals and patients
access a set of services offered by the eSanté agency, such as the care file
share.

still with regard to amendment 1, point 3, aimed at creating a new paragraph 3 of article 1 of the draft
of the Grand-ducal regulation, the CnpD notes that by comparing the said paragraph with its initial version (the former article 1,
paragraph 2), it is no longer provided that the logging and traceability data must be kept for
a period of five years from their recording and that they are erased afterwards (except in the event of a procedure of
control), but that the said data "regularly updated, are kept as long as the procedure of
control ". the CnpD understands that this modification is based on the opinion of the Council of State of November 27, 2018
having proposed to specify in this context "that the data are erased as soon as the control procedure is
closed and that the data is regularly updated. »

the CnpD wonders first of all whether the control procedures of the eSanté agency and service providers
involved in the care of patients who have accessed or consulted the identification reference directories
patients and health care providers are triggered regularly, and if so, by whom and at what
interval. moreover, the CnpD does not understand the scope of this modification and suggests maintaining a duration
storage of logging and traceability data for five years from their recording, while
taking into account the fact that a possible control procedure would have a suspensive effect and the data would be
only to be deleted when this control procedure is closed. indeed, the purpose of the conservation
logs relating to access consists precisely in being able to check and note possible abuses whether by
the eSanté agency or by the patient.

Finally, in the commentary to the articles of the initial version of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, it was
clarified that in order to identify healthcare professionals wishing to connect to the platform, the eSanté agency
assign a unique electronic identifier to each health professional and health community within the framework
electronic exchanges through the platform.

263 Opinion No. Ce 53.106 of the Council of State of November 27, 2018.

Annual Report

195

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

however, it was not clear if each health professional working in a health community would have an identifier
staff, while the CnpD considered that it is not acceptable for such a community to have an identifier
in common.

the National Commission assumes that with the addition of the new paragraph 2, first point, this problem is resolved
and that each health care provider will have their personal identifier, the said paragraph specifying that identity vigilance
aims, among other things, to “guarantee and certify the identity of the patient and the provider involved in the care
of the patient by assigning a unique identifier in each directory for each existing identity. "  THE
commentary to said amendment reinforces this observation by emphasizing that in order to “guarantee the quality and safety of
care, each user of the platform, whether patient or provider, must be uniquely identified,
i.e. without ambiguity. »

Ad amendment 3

amendment 3 aims to replace in the new article 2, paragraph 2 of the draft grand-ducal regulation the
terms “these data” by “the data contained in the identification reference directories”. by this
modification, paragraph 2 in question will then have the following content: “the data contained in the directories
identification repositories are kept for a maximum of ten years from the day on which the identification of the
patient, respectively of the healthcare provider becomes irrelevant in the context of the data processing referred to in
Article 60ter of the Social Security Code, without prejudice to the provisions setting a retention period
of the data processed on the national electronic platform for the exchange and sharing of data of
health by the agency. »

As to the substance, the draft Grand-Ducal regulation therefore still provides, as in its initial version, for a duration
maximum retention of 10 years for personal data appearing in the reference directories
identification of patients and health care providers. Already in its opinion of 21 December 2018, the
National Commission considered that it is not possible to determine the exact starting point of this time limit.
10 years. it reiterates its position in this respect, as well as its general remarks concerning the retention period
10 years:

“Thus, to set the triggering of the maximum retention period of 10 years, the CnpD agrees with the opinion of the
Council of State having recommended that the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation draw inspiration from the starting points
provided for in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the file
of shared care for deletion of data, namely the death of the patient and the closing of the applications of
the platform. the CnpD therefore considers it necessary to describe concisely in the body of the text of the draft
grand-ducal regulation, subject to an opinion, what is the exact starting point of the 10-year period.

annual report 196 2019 cnpd

In addition to the question of the precise start of the retention period, the National Commission wonders
general if the 10-year period is justified in relation to the purposes pursued by the establishment of the directory
patient identification repository. the authors of bill n°7061 which became the law of December 13, 2017
amending certain provisions of the Social Security Code, described the purposes of said directory, as well as
of the reference directory for the identification of health care providers as follows: “management
secure identity is required not only for patient and provider access to the platform
national and in the shared care file but, in general, in all IT projects at
national scope aimed at secure exchange or better use of health-related data. To
To this end, the eSanté agency has set up a system for monitoring and preventing errors and risks related to
the identification of patients and providers to manage the quality and reliability of the information processed in the
deployed services. It is essential to ensure that the same patient or provider is uniquely identified
throughout the platform ecosystem and in reciprocal communications with information systems
actors in the field of health and care. »264 the commentary to the articles of the Grand-Ducal regulation under
notice specifies in this regard that the retention period is intended to be aligned with the maximum period during which the
professionals and health establishments, using a platform application for the management of their
patient records, in practice keep the data. the comment goes on to say that the "data
may, however, be deleted within a shorter period if their retention is no longer justified with regard to the
directory interaction needs with platform applications. »

however, considering that the patient identification reference directory will not replace patient records
patients required by doctors, hospitals and other healthcare professionals, the Commission
national authority considers that a shelf life of ten years after the death of a patient or the closure of
applications of the platform appears to be excessive with regard to the aforementioned purposes of said directory. »

the National Commission had expressed in its aforementioned opinion the same observations concerning the duration of
retention of data contained in the reference directories for the identification of health care providers
health.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on October 18, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

264 Commentary on the articles of bill no. 7061 amending certain provisions of the Social Security Code, filed on September 13, 2016.

Annual Report

197

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Additional opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the terms and conditions for setting up
of the shared care record.

Deliberation n°51/2019 of October 18, 2019

In accordance with article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European regulation 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
and the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as “the GDPR”),
each supervisory authority has the task of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the parliament
national, government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures
relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”. article 7 of the
Law of 1 August 2018 organizing the National Commission for Data Protection and the regime
general on data protection specifically provides that the National Commission for the Protection of
data (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”) carries out the missions entrusted to it
under article 57 of the GDPR.

by letter dated July 26, 2019, the Minister of Social Security sent the Commission
national a series of proposed amendments to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specifying the procedures
and conditions for setting up the shared care file (hereinafter “the amendments”), as well as a text
coordination of said draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

as a reminder, on 5 april 2018265 the CnpD issued an initial opinion on the draft grand-ducal regulation
specifying the terms and conditions for setting up the shared care file (hereinafter “the draft
Grand-Ducal Regulation”) in which it formulated a whole series of observations on the provisions
of the said project having an impact on respect for private life and the protection of personal data
staff.

the Council of State for its part gave its opinion on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation in an opinion delivered on 23 October
2018, in which it took up many of the criticisms made by the National Commission in its aforementioned opinion
of April 5, 2018.

the National Commission welcomes the fact that some of its remarks have been taken into account by the authors
amendments.

i. preliminary remarks

265 Deliberation n°242/2018 of April 5, 2018.

annual report 198 2019 cnpd

To. principle of lawfulness of personal data processing

In its opinion of April 5, 2018, the CnpD considered that in view of the principle of lawfulness of data processing
of a personal nature which must be read in the light of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the European Convention on
human rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as Article 52 paragraphs (1) and (2)
of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union266, at least the provisions concerning the duration of
retention of data in the shared care file (hereafter: “DSp”), the rights of minor holders not
emancipated and adult holders protected by law, as well as the limitation of the right of access and the right to erasure
should be provided for in the law in the strict sense of the term and more specifically in article 60quater of the Code of
social security, and not in a regulatory act.

First of all, the CnpD notes that the provisions on the retention period for personal data
personnel at the DSp are still provided for in Articles 4 and 9 paragraph (5) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
fine.

moreover, by amendment 7, the authors deleted article 7 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning
non-emancipated minor holders and adult holders protected by law for the following reasons: "the notices
of the Council of State and the National Commission for Data Protection establish that Article 7, at least
in part, derogates from the rules relating to minors and adults protected by law as provided for in the Civil Code.

thus in order to respect the hierarchy of standards, article 7 is deleted, the provisions which introduce
specific rights for certain minors to be included in the specific laws governing their rights. »

with regard to a limitation of the rights of data subjects, such as in particular the right of access, Article
23 paragraph (1) GDPR provides that the law of the Union or the law of the Member State to which the person responsible for the
processing or the processor is subject may, by means of legislative measures, limit, inter alia, the scope
the right of access provided for in article 15 of the GDPR. such limitation must respect the essence of the freedoms and rights
fundamental principles and must constitute a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to
guarantee one of the ten reasons provided for therein. a limiting legislative measure must also contain certain provisions
specific listed in article 23 paragraph (2) of the GDPR.

In its opinion of April 5, 2018, the CnpD noted that as Article 9 paragraph (2) of the draft in its
initial version limited the right of access of holders, legal representatives and referring physicians, this limitation
should be provided for by law in the strict sense of the term and comply with the above-mentioned requirements provided for in Article
23 GDPR. by its amendment 8, the authors explain that like the new article 7 paragraph (4)
"provides for making certain data inaccessible to the holder, which may cause damage if necessary
serious for his health, [it] is deleted following the aforementioned opinion of the Council of State since it restricts the access rights of the

266 for more details, the CnpD refers to its opinion of April 5, 2018.

Annual Report

199

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

holder to his shared care file, as attributed by the legal basis of article 60quater of the Code of
social Security. »

Apart from the articles concerning the duration of data retention, the CnpD therefore notes that its other
recommendations concerning the provisions for which a regulatory framework is not sufficient, but
where a framework by a law in the strict sense of the term is required, have been taken into account by the authors of the
amendments to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation. however, she regrets that after more than 17 months after the adoption of
its aforementioned opinion, no bill has been tabled in the Chamber of Deputies with a view to adopting the measures
legislative measures necessary to take into account the said considerations the Cnpd is also taking the opportunity
to reiterate its recommendation issued to the legislator in the context of its opinion of April 5, 2018 to draw inspiration from the
French Public Health Code in order to provide in Luxembourg legislation for criminal sanctions in
case of abuse of access to the DSp.

b. the question of the responsibility of the treatment

Article 60ter paragraph (4) of the Social Security Code provides that the national information agency
in the field of health (hereinafter referred to as “the eSanté agency”) is responsible for the
processing of personal data within the meaning of the amended law of 2 August 2002 relating to the protection
of persons with regard to the processing of personal data, law repealed by the law of 1 August 2018
on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
Data protection.

however, the CnpD has already considered on many occasions267 that the sole responsibility of the eSanté agency concerning
the processing of personal data contained in the DSp does not correspond to reality as
the system is being considered. indeed, it follows from the general scheme of the law of 17 December 2010 on
reform of the health care system that the eSanté agency on the one hand, and health professionals on the other hand,
participate jointly in achieving the purposes and means of processing as defined by the legislator.
Article 26(1) of the GDPR requires that “the joint controllers define in a manner
their respective obligations in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Regulation,
in particular with regard to the exercise of the rights of the person concerned, and their respective obligations
as to the communication of the information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, by agreement between them, unless, and
insofar as their respective obligations are defined by the law of the union or by the law of the Member State
to which the controllers are subject. »

the Court of Justice of the European Union has taken a position with regard to the concept of “joint responsibility” in
a recent judgment ruling that its existence “does not necessarily result in equivalent liability,
for the same processing of personal data, of the different actors. on the contrary, these actors

267 See deliberation no. 345/2010 of 24 November 2010 relating to bill no. 6196 reforming the health care system, as well as deliberation

n°242/2018 of 5 April 2018 on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination.

annual report 200 2019 cnpd

may be involved at different stages of this treatment and to different degrees, so that the level of
responsibility of each of them must be assessed taking into account all the relevant circumstances of the
specific case. »268

the CnpD notes in this context that the authors of the amendments have become aware that it is not
only the eSanté agency which is to be considered as the controller, but that different actors
assume different responsibilities with regard to the processing of the data contained in the DSp. in
Indeed, the commentary to amendment 8 mentions the obligations and responsibilities of healthcare professionals
intervening in the medical care of the patient incumbent on them under article 13 of the rGpD, while
that amendment 2 provides for the obligations and responsibilities of the eHealth agency under article 14 of the GDPR.
the authors explain in the said commentary that these clarifications pursue "the same desire to determine
clearly the obligations and responsibilities of the various parties under article 26 of the regulation (eu)
2016/679 as recommended by the Council of State and the National Commission for Data Protection in
their respective opinions. »

in addition, paragraphs (3) paragraph 4 and (5) of article 6 of the coordinated text of the draft grand-
ducal provide that the right to erasure, respectively the right to obtain the rectification of inaccurate data or
incomplete in their DSp, must be exercised either with the healthcare professional or with the eSanté agency.

Finally, in its current version, Article 10 paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning
the security of the platform mentions that the service provider is to be considered as the controller and
that it may use subcontractors to implement the technical and organizational measures of
appropriate security measures in order to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risks. Clarifications on the concept
of a “provider” were found in the commentary to the articles of the initial version of the draft regulation
grand-ducal: “Given the diversity of service providers likely to connect to the platform or use one of
its applications, namely a hospital establishment, a pharmacy, a medical analysis laboratory and
clinical biology, an association of doctors or an individual practice and, for the data mentioned in article
60quater, paragraph 2 of the Social Security Code, a support and care network, a semi-stationary centre,
an aid and care establishment, an intermittent stay establishment […]”. however, the CnpD had recommended
the authors to add a definition of the said term to article 1 of the draft.

thus, not only the eSanté agency and healthcare professionals can, depending on the treatment in question,
be considered responsible for the processing of the data contained in the DSp, but also of other entities
like those mentioned above.

the CnpD can only support the approach of the authors of the amendments to specify in the body of the text
the respective obligations of the different controllers as required by article 26 of the GDPR.

268 judgment of 29 July 2019, Fashion ID GmbG & Co. KG v Verbraucherzentrale nrW eV, C-40/17, eu:C:2018:1039, paragraph 70; see, in this sense, judgment of July 10, 2018,

Jehovan todistajat, C-25/17, eu:C:2018:551, point 66.

Annual Report

201

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

nevertheless, as we are clearly in the presence of a joint responsibility and not of a responsibility
of the eSanté agency, the CnpD considers it necessary to modify article 60ter (4) of the Social Security Code
in order to foresee the responsibilities of the various stakeholders.

ii. Ad Amendment 2

article 2 paragraph (2) of the draft grand-ducal regulation always mentions that the unaffiliated patient benefiting
of healthcare by a healthcare provider established in Luxembourg may request the opening of a DSp subject to
an application form to be sent to the eSanté agency. the commentary of the articles of the initial version of the project
of the Grand-Ducal Regulation specified in this regard that the said form must be accompanied by "supporting documents
required ". however, in view of the principle of proportionality and necessity (principle of data minimization
provided for in article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the GDPR), the CnpD considered in its opinion of April 5, 2018 that
this definition lacks clarity and precision and she considered it necessary to list more precisely and
concise these “necessary supporting documents” in the body of the text. however, the authors of the amendments did not
account of this remark by the National Commission.

moreover, even if the new article 2, paragraph (3), letter f) now specifies that the patient is also
informed by the eSanté agency of the content of its DSp at the time of its activation, the National Commission
always asks what is this content, i.e. what are the categories of data that are contained
in the DSp when it is activated. As in its opinion of April 5, 2018, it still asks itself the question whether
data from reference directories for the identification of patients and healthcare providers will also be
integrated in the DSp and if so, it considers that these categories of data should be added to
those already provided for in Appendix 1 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under number (2).

iii. Ad Amendment 4

amendment 4 aims to modify article 4 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning the closure and
removal of DSp. In general, the CnpD refers to its comments made in its opinion of April 5
2019 regarding the retention period of data following the closure of the DSp, in which it considered
that an intermediate data archiving period of ten years appears to exceed that necessary with regard to
the purposes for exercising the right of access and a possible reopening of the DSp and that a retention period of the
five-year data following the closure of a DSp would be more appropriate and would respect the principle of limiting
storage provided for in article 5 paragraph (1) letter e) of the GDPR.

in addition, paragraph (3) of article 4 of the draft still states that only the data of the DSp
“are deleted” ten years after the closure of the DSp if it is not reopened within this period.
the CnpD would like to reiterate that not only should the data be deleted from the DSp, but that the DSp itself

annual report 202 2019 cnpd

itself must be completely destroyed, as provided for in article r1111-34 of the Public Health Code
French.

Similarly, the CnpD considers that it is essential that in the event of the closure of a DSp, its holder is informed that the
data it contains will no longer be accessible, especially since the DSp can contain its wishes in terms of
of organ donation, advance directives or information relating to end-of-life provisions according to article
6 paragraph (2) letter b) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

Finally, the CnpD would like to repeat that it is necessary to clarify in the draft what are the methods of exercising
specific access rights to the DSp of a deceased person and whether, where applicable, this access will be exercised
in accordance with article 19 of the amended law of 24 July 2014 relating to the rights and obligations of the patient.

iv. Ad amendment 5

the commentary to amendment 5, aimed at modifying article 5 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning
access to the DSp by health professionals, specifies that “it is necessary to clearly mark the two stages: activation
of his account by the holder of the shared care file and activation of his account by the healthcare professional
health. However, despite the changes proposed by the amendment, it still does not appear from the draft regulations
grand-ducal if the activation of his account on the platform using his personal identifiers and the connection
later is optional for healthcare professionals. for this hypothesis, the CnpD had already noted
in its opinion of April 5, 2018 that there would therefore be an “opt-out” system for patients, while for
healthcare professionals an “opt-in” system would apply.

Finally, clear explanations by the authors of the amendments on the actors targeted by the notion of
“health community” are still missing in the body of the text. In its opinion of October 23, 2018, the Council
of State also asked the authors to specify the entities referred to by the notion of “health community”.

v. Ad Amendment 6

by amendment 6, modifying article 6 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation governing the rights of access and
of the holder's writing, the authors took into account the importance of the informational self-determination of the patient
by deleting from the text that the modification of access rights does not apply to the referring doctor and
to professionals in an emergency department of a hospital establishment. indeed, the new text allows the
holder to prohibit access to his complete file to health professionals that he expressly designates or to
make certain data inaccessible to certain healthcare professionals, without exception. As specified by
comment of the respective amendment, "this modification takes into account the remark of the Council of State which
raises that the restrictive list of opposition rights is contrary to Article 60quater, paragraph 4 of the Code of

Annual Report

203

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

social security which grants a general right to the holder to be able to oppose at any time the sharing of data
concerning him. »

moreover, the Cnpd congratulates the authors of the amendments for having added to article 6 paragraph (3) sub-paragraph
4 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation the possibility for the holder to request the erasure of his data
personal contact with the healthcare professional or the eHealth agency. however, similar to what the CnpD had
noted in its opinion of April 5, 2018 in the context of the possibility for the holder to make inaccessible
certain data specific to one or more healthcare professionals, the CnpD considers that the possibility of
requesting the erasure of personal data does not correspond to the reality of the system as it is designed.
she wonders in particular how the eSanté agency or health professionals actually intend
to grant requests for the erasure of specific personal data. Indeed, the DSP contains only a little
of individual or structured data, but is actually and above all composed of scanned documents, each
document containing a multitude of information or health data relating to a patient.

the CnpD therefore reiterates its concern to know how it can be guaranteed that a holder can request
the erasure of his personal data (for example data relating to a voluntary interruption of
pregnancy) contained in several scanned medical documents. unless you delete all of the
documents, it is of the opinion that it will be practically impossible to erase certain specific data in
all the documents containing this specific data.

vi. Ad Amendment 8

First of all, the CnpD refers to its opinion of April 5, 2018, in which it had already criticized that a matrix of
default access, such as that provided for in appendix 1 of the project under examination, must in principle be considered
as being contrary to the principle of "privacy by design" provided for by article 25 paragraph (2) of the GDPR.

moreover, article 7 new paragraph (1) subparagraph 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides for
specific for the “classification of a type of data within a category of data”. Since in
the DSp mainly include scanned documents which have no granularity, the CnpD recalls that the text
of the project does not correspond to the reality of the configuration of the systems put in place. she wonders in particular
how the eSanté agency as data controller will control the situation in which several
categories of data are found in the same scanned document and that a health professional is not entitled
to access only one category, but not another?

Similarly, the CnpD has already had occasion to point out269 that the list of recipients should not in future
be extended to other categories of persons (such as, in particular, private insurance companies,
employers, medical practitioners acting as an expert on behalf of third parties, etc.) and she had

269 See deliberation no. 345/2010 of 24 November 2010 relating to bill no. 6196 reforming the health care system, as well as deliberation

n°242/2018 of 5 April 2018 on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination.

annual report 204 2019 cnpd

proposed to the authors to add a provision to this effect in the body of the text of the draft Grand-
ducal under opinion. however, the authors of the amendments did not take this recommendation into account.

with regard to the right to information of data subjects, the CnpD notes with satisfaction that the
new paragraph (3) of Article 7 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation now imposes on professionals
of health the obligation to provide to the holders at the time of the collection of their data, the information referred to in
Article 13, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the GDPR. nevertheless, the CnpD would like to insist that this obligation to inform
holders of a DSp is also imposed on a health community (for example a laboratory, a center for help and
care, etc). It is essential that the patient understands that a health community, or even a health professional
exercising on an individual basis, intends to access his DSp and that he has the possibility of refusing this access.

Finally, to meet the legal requirements of the rGpD, a health professional, exercising on an individual basis
or in a health community, must be able to demonstrate that this information to the patient has indeed been
place. the CnpD recalls in this context its recommendation already formulated in 2010 that the use of a “card
of health” of the type “French vital card” or German “elektronische Gesundheitskarte” would facilitate this process,
just as such a card would facilitate the use of other processes / functionalities within the framework of the system of the
DSp (such as, for example, the use of an inconvenient or user-friendly login identifier).

vii. Ad amendment 10

Already in its opinion of April 5, 2018, the CnpD considered that based on the principles of data minimization and
of the storage limitation (article 5 paragraph (1) letters c) and e) of the GDPR) and considering that the DSp has
as its main purpose the sharing and exchange of useful and relevant data between health professionals for
a better quality of care, that the DSp is not intended to be exhaustive, that it does not replace
records kept by health professionals or hospitals and that he certainly does not have a
purpose of storage or archiving of data, a retention period of five years from the payment
data in the DSp is sufficient and appropriate with regard to the purposes actually and legally pursued.

the Council of State had made similar reservations in its opinion of October 23, 2018, considering that the
provision regarding the general retention period of 10 years "lacks flexibility and that the professional
health provider who introduces data should be able to determine the retention period of the data according to
usefulness and relevance, and therefore, set the date of its deletion in consultation with the holder, date which
may, if necessary, be modified subsequently according to the evolution of the holder's state of health. »

the CnpD notes that although the general shelf life of 10 years has been maintained, through the introduction of the
paragraph (5) paragraph 2 of the new article 9, the health professional may, with the agreement of the holder, derogate from
this period and determine a shorter retention period based on the usefulness and relevance of the data

Annual Report

205

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

for the holder's state of health. moreover, the CnpD congratulates the authors of the amendments for having provided in paragraph
3 of the said paragraph that the healthcare professional may, with the agreement of the holder, determine that certain data
considered useful and relevant for life for the holder's state of health, are kept until the closure of the
shared care record. moreover, it is specified that "the agreement of the holder is dated and recorded in his space
of personal expression in the shared care record application. »

viii. Ad amendment 11

amendment 11 aims to modify article 10 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning the security of the platform.

In its opinion of April 5, 2018, the CnpD had criticized that, with particular regard to the publishers of a
computer program connected to the national platform, one could interpret the former article 11 paragraph
(2) of the project in such a way that they could connect directly to the platform. gold, the CnpD
pointed out that it is not acceptable for It actors themselves to have direct access to the DSp, this not being
absolutely not the practice in the matter.

the CnpD notes that by amendment 11, the aforementioned term “publisher of a computer program”
is replaced by the term "subcontractor" in paragraph 2, paragraph 1 and 3, and the authors explain in the
comment “that it is accepted that the service providers need in the execution of the missions assigned to them in
within the framework of the shared care record application, for technical and organizational reasons,
processors putting in place security measures for them to guarantee the availability, authenticity, integrity,
confidentiality and traceability of data exchanged on the platform. »

the CnpD would like to reiterate in this context its reservations concerning access to DSp by actors other than the
health professionals. the current draft does not provide any legislative framework in this respect that would go beyond the
general principles provided for in the GDPR, in particular with regard to subcontracting (Article 28 of the GDPR). gold, access
to a large part of the health data of the quasi-entire population would justify and make necessary such a
accuracy. as an example, the cnpd refers to the legislative measures that have been taken at the level of the sector
bank to regulate and protect access to financial data. According to the opinion of the CnpD, health data,
specifically regulated by GDPR article 9, are more sensitive to financial data – and
should therefore be subject to at least equivalent protection. Without wishing to be exhaustive, the CnpD
also draws attention to the fact that in other Member States accreditation mechanisms allow
to ensure that access to such data is subject to independent control or at least under the
state control.

the CnpD reminds that without additional supervision, each health care provider can resort to sub-
processors on the basis of its own risk assessment – while potentially exposing all the data

annual report 206 2019 cnpd

contained in the DSp. the current situation, manifested by a lack of power for the eSanté agency to control
who has access to the DSp system, would therefore make it almost impossible for the said agency to ensure a
high level of system security.

Finally, the National Commission observes that a large number of its recommendations or questions
concerning the current article 10 on the security of the platform have not been taken into account by the authors of the
amendments.

thus, the National Commission would like to recall some of its observations made in its aforementioned opinion
concerning former article 11 entitled: “Security of the national electronic platform”:

“According to Article 11 paragraph (1) of the draft, the eSanté agency undertakes to implement a system of
information security management certified in accordance with international standard ISO/IEC 27001.
nevertheless, the CnpD suggests specifying in the text of the draft grand-ducal regulation the minimum perimeter
to which said ISo certification must relate. the scope must cover all the systems, processes
and organizational elements involved directly or indirectly on the platform and reflecting well, the case
if applicable, the situation of joint liability.

Article 11 paragraph (1) letter e) of the draft envisages the “implementation of annual security audits”. the article
32 paragraph (1) GDPR contains in this context a non-exhaustive list of technical measures and
organizational measures that the data controller and the processor must implement in order to guarantee
a level of security appropriate to the risk. one of these measures is precisely the implementation of a “procedure
aimed at regularly testing, analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures
to ensure the security of the processing” (article 32 paragraph (1) letter d) of the GDPR). If the authors of the draft
grand-ducal regulation under opinion intend to target this provision of the GDPR, they should specify the details
in the body of the text. Among other things, the CnpD considers it necessary to define whether these audits will be carried out by
independent auditors or by auditors external to the eSanté agency. Similarly, the project remains silent on the
specific scope of these audits, while an approach regularly adopted in this area is manifested by a
tri-annual audit plan validated by the Board of Directors so that after 3 years, all procedures have
been audited.

paragraph (2) of the said article obliges providers and publishers of a computer program connected to the
national platform to implement security measures appropriate to its type, size,
of its processes or activities. However, the CnpD is of the opinion that the size of the service provider or publisher is not
consider as a relevant criterion in this context. Indeed, article 32 paragraph (1) of the GDPR specifies that
the technical and organizational measures to be put in place must be adapted to "the state of knowledge,
the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing as well as the

Annual Report

207

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

risks, of varying likelihood and severity, to the rights and freedoms of natural persons […]. »
the risk may for example be particularly high if a service provider has access to a large number of DSps.

[…]

Finally, the National Commission wonders at what intervals the eSanté agency intends to implement the
staff awareness measures as provided for in Article 11 paragraph (2) letter e) of the draft. »

ix. Ad amendment 12

amendment 12 aims to modify certain terms of the former article 12 entitled “Technical methods of payment
data in the shared care and interoperability file” of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation which becomes the
new article 11 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

the National Commission notes in this context that none of its remarks were considered by the
authors of the amendments.

thus, the National Commission would like to reiterate its observations made in its aforementioned opinion concerning
the former article 12 entitled “Technical procedures for entering data into the shared care file and
interoperability”:

“According to article 12 paragraph (2) subparagraph 4 letter a) of the draft, the tests mentioned in paragraph 2, subparagraph 3 letter
a) of the said article will be carried out not by the eSanté agency, but by an organization or a company expert in
interoperability of health systems. the CnpD mainly raises the question of who will have to bear the costs relating to
the work of this expert, and above all who will appoint this expert and on the basis of what criteria the skills of this
last will be checked?
 
paragraph (2) of article 12 of the project continues in the sense that a certificate of conformity will be issued by
the eSanté agency based on the results of the tests carried out by the aforementioned expert. however, on what criteria does the agency
Will eSanté base its decision and how will it decide concretely? are representatives
not part of the eSanté agency will be involved to guarantee the independence of the decision? CnpD
therefore recommends that the authors indicate in the project that the eSanté agency must put in place a regulation
of internal order setting the procedures for issuing, blocking and withdrawing certificates in order to guarantee
fair treatment of certificates for all players.

finally, in article 12 paragraph (2) subparagraph 6 of the draft it is indicated that the attestation of the results of the tests
remains valid as long as no modification affects it. but this approach does not correspond to the good

annual report 208 2019 cnpd

practices in this area, because even without changes in the systems, new vulnerabilities in
existing applications could very well be discovered and subsequently potentially exploited.
thus the CnpD considers that a “procedure aimed at regularly testing, analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness of
technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of the processing” as recommended in
Article 32 (1) (d) of the GDPR should be implemented – and this regardless of whether modifications have
place. »

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on October 18, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

Annual Report

209

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Opinion of the National Data Protection Commission on the draft law
No. 7462 amending the amended law of June 5, 2009 relating to the qualification
initial and continuous training of drivers of certain road vehicles
assigned to the transport of goods or passengers and amending the amended law of
July 27, 1993 with the purpose of 1. economic development and diversification and
2. improvement of the general structure and regional balance of the economy.

Deliberation n°52/2019 of November 15, 2019

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other
institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and
freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.

by letter dated June 20, 2019, the Minister of Mobility and Public Works invited the
National Commission to decide on project no. 7462 amending the amended law of June 5, 2009
on the initial qualification and continuous training of drivers of certain affected road vehicles
to the transport of goods or passengers and amending the amended law of 27 July 1993 having as its object
1. economic development and diversification and 2. improvement of the general structure and balance
regional economy (hereinafter the “draft law”).

the purpose of this bill is to transpose into national law directive (eu) 2018/645 of the parliament
European Parliament and of the Council of 18 April 2018 amending Directive 2003/59/EC relating to the initial qualification and
the continuous training of drivers of certain road vehicles assigned to the transport of goods or
as well as Directive 2006/126/EC relating to driving licenses (hereinafter the "Directive"). This
transposition into national law occurs by modifying the amended law of 5 June 2009 relating to the initial qualification
and the continuous training of drivers of certain road vehicles assigned to the transport of goods
or travelers and amending the amended law of 27 July 1993 having as its object 1. the development and
economic diversification and 2. improvement of the general structure and regional balance of the economy
(hereinafter the “amended law of 5 June 2009”), as well as by an amendment to the Grand-Ducal regulation of 2 October
2009 relating to the subjects taught as part of the initial qualification and continuing training of

annual report 210 2019 cnpd

drivers of certain road vehicles assigned to the transport of goods or passengers as well as
accreditation criteria for providing this education.

one of the novelties of the directive is the establishment between the Member States of an electronic network whose
purpose is to allow the exchange, between the Member States, of information on the training certificates issued or
withdrawn from drivers of certain road vehicles. This network is referred to in article 6 of the directive which introduces a
new article 10 bis entitled “execution network” in directive 2003/59/EC relating to initial qualification
and the continuous training of drivers of certain road vehicles assigned to the transport of goods
or travelers (hereinafter “Directive 2003/59/EC”). recital 10 of the directive specifies in this respect that "the
Member States, in cooperation with the Commission, should electronically exchange information
relating to professional aptitude certificates (Cap). They should develop the electronic platform
necessary, taking into account for this purpose a cost-benefit analysis carried out by the Commission, in
considering in particular the possibility of extending the network of driving licenses in the European Union
set up under Directive 2006/126/EC. This will, among other things, allow Member States to access
easily to information relating to completed training, which does not appear on the driving license of the
driver. »270 .

In general, this opinion will not cover the legal framework of the directive, which was decided by the
European legislator itself, but will limit itself to observations concerning provisions where the authors
of the bill have used the room for maneuver left to the Member States during the transposition into law
of a European directive. Indeed, such a directive only establishes an obligation of result, while
leaving the Member States of the European Union free as to the forms and means to take to achieve this271.

this opinion will therefore be limited to commenting on the new provisions introduced by the directive concerning
the establishment of an electronic network between the Member States, as described above. These provisions are
transposed into national law in Article 4 of the draft law which inserts a new Article 6 bis entitled “Bank of
electronic data and data exchange” in the amended law of June 5, 2009.
 
1. on the electronic database referred to in the new article 6 bis of the amended law of 5 June 2009

i. preliminary remarks

first of all, it should be noted that it appears from the comments of the authors of the bill relating to the new
article 6 bis introduced by the law under the opinion that "data relating to driving licenses in luxembourg
are in a database whose owner is the ministry having transport in its
attributions (…)”, the authors further specify that “the information relating to professional training
(category, period of validity) are currently already in this national database”.

270 the aforementioned “network of driving licenses in the european union set up under directive 2006/126/ce” derives from article 15 of the directive
2006/126/EC and is currently in place within the European Union. This network is called the “driving permit network” system. This system works
incidentally in competition with another system called the European Car and Driving License Information System. These two systems allow
the exchange of data relating to driving licenses in the countries of the European Union.

271 Article 288 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that “the directive binds any Member State to which it is addressed as to the result to be achieved, any

by leaving to the national authorities the competence as to the form and the means. »

Annual Report

211

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

in view of the foregoing, the National Commission then wonders whether the electronic database,
provided for in the new article 6 bis introduced by the law under opinion, is integrated into the pre-existing file relating to permits
to drive, i.e. the “national database”, or if it is a question of creating a separate file from the “national database”,
national data” pre-existing aforementioned? In addition, the CnpD still wonders about the articulation in practice between
the various data processing implemented through this “national database” and/or the “bank
of electronic data” covered by the bill under notice?

in any event, the National Commission welcomes the fact that, from the point of view of legal certainty, provision is made,
in paragraph (1) of the new article 6 bis introduced by the law under opinion, the principle of the creation of a “bank
electronic data containing information relating to the training certificates issued or withdrawn provided for
in article 3 [of the amended law of 5 June 2009]”. According to subsection (3) of the said section, the Minister having
within its competences the law under opinion (hereinafter the "Minister") is the data controller and the Center
of State information technologies (hereinafter the “CtIe”), the National Society of Automobile Circulation
(hereinafter the “SnCa”) and the training organizations provided for in article 6 of the amended law of 5 June 2009 (which
can be private or public bodies) have the quality of subcontractor. In addition, subsection (2) of said
article lists the purposes of the processing implemented within the framework of the law under opinion and paragraph (4) of the
new article 6 bis further specifies the data transmitted by the training bodies to the minister.

the CnpD welcomes that the principle of the creation of such a database or such data processing
as well as the aforementioned clarifications are provided for by the bill. These legal provisions thus establish,
in accordance with article 6, paragraph (3) of the GDPR, the specifications of this new treatment which will be invested
The Minister.

indeed, it should be recalled that the keeping of a file of personal data collected and processed by
an administrative authority must have a legal basis in accordance with the aforementioned article, read together with its
paragraph (1) letters c) and e)272, which provides that: “the basis for the processing referred to in paragraph 1, points c)
and e), is defined by:

To. union law; Or
b. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

the purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in
paragraph 1(e) are necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or relating to the exercise
of the official authority vested in the controller. This legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, inter alia: the conditions
general rules governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; the types of data that are the subject
processing; the people concerned; the entities to which the personal data can
be communicated and the purposes for which they may be communicated; purpose limitation; the durations of

272 Article 6, paragraph (1), letters c) and e) provides that: “processing is lawful only if, and insofar as, at least one of the following conditions is met:
fulfilled: (…) c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject; (…) e) the processing is
necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller; (…)”.

annual report 212 2019 cnpd

conservation; and processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure processing
lawful and fair, such as those provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in
chapter IX. »

It follows from the foregoing that this article provides for a particular constraint linked to the lawfulness of data processing.
data necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a mission of public interest or relating to
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In these two cases, the
basis and purposes of data processing must be specifically defined either by European Union law
European Union, or by the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.
 
In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to union law or to the law
of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. moreover, this law could specify the conditions
general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can be
be disclosed, purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure
lawful and fair processing. […]”.

under the above provisions, these legal bases should establish specific provisions aimed at
to determine, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons concerned, the entities to which the
data may be communicated and for what purposes, the data retention periods or even
processing operations and procedures.

thus, in view of the above developments, and although the principle of a new data processing via the
creation of the "electronic data bank", as referred to in paragraph (1) of the new article 6 bis of the law
of 5 June 2009, is planned, the Commission Nationale notes however that certain specific elements
relating to the processing of data are not (or not sufficiently) specified in the law under opinion.

ii. On the role of the different actors

As previously indicated, the National Commission welcomes the fact that paragraph (3) of the new article
6 bis of the amended law of 5 June 2009, introduced by the law under opinion, specifies the role of the various actors in the
framework of the processing of personal data referred to in the aforementioned article.

the Cnpd welcomes the fact that the authors of the bill have specified that the minister is responsible for the
processing in accordance with the provisions of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the Commission
national data protection system and the general data protection regime. nevertheless,

Annual Report

213

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

the concept of data controller is not defined in the aforementioned law but is defined in article 4, point
7) rGpD273. In this context, the National Commission considers it more appropriate to refer directly to the
GDPR legal provisions.

in addition, concerning the CtIe, the SnCa and the approved training organizations referred to in article 6 of the amended law
of June 5, 2009, the National Commission understands that they act as a subcontractor of the Minister within the meaning of
rGpD. For the sake of clarity, the reference to the definition of “processor”, referred to in article 4, point 8) of the GDPR274
could be mentioned at the end of the second subparagraph of paragraph (3) of the new Article 6 bis. About the role
of the subcontractor, it should be recalled that in accordance with article 28 of the GDPR, the latter "only processes the data
personal nature only on documented instructions from the controller”.

in addition, it should be specified whether the SnCa, within the framework of the law under opinion, acts as a subcontractor of the
Minister within the framework of his legal missions as provided for in the first paragraph of paragraph (4) of Article 2 of
the law of February 14, 1955 concerning the regulation of traffic on all public roads (as it
has been amended), which provides that: “the Minister may entrust the Société Nationale de Circulation Automobile, in
abbreviated SnCa, administrative tasks relating to the management of driving licenses”.

iii. On the purposes of the processing of personal data

the National Commission welcomes the fact that the specific purposes of the processing are determined and listed
in paragraph (2) of the new article 6 bis of the amended law of 5 June 2009.

first of all, it should be noted that only the legal provisions referred to in points 1), 3) and 4) of paragraph
(2) of the aforementioned article are intended to transpose the new article 10 bis of directive 2003/59/EC, introduced
by the directive.

with regard to the purpose referred to in point 3) of paragraph (2) of the said Article275, the National Commission
asks whether the term "interconnection" could not be replaced by the term "exchange", insofar as
the new article 10a of directive 2003/59/EC, introduced by the directive, does not use this term and mentions
the concept of “exchange”. indeed, in terms of data protection, the concept of “interconnection”276 means
that the processing of data is linked and can be managed by the persons responsible for the different processing operations
concerned. Insofar as the authors of the law under opinion seem to want to aim for a system of transmission of
data by electronic means and not a real interconnection, it would therefore be appropriate, in order to avoid any confusion,
to adapt the terminology as suggested above.

With regard to the purpose referred to in point 4) of paragraph (2) of the new Article 6 bis, the National Commission
asks, in view of the preceding developments, whether this purpose could not be grouped together with the purpose

273 article 4, point 7) of the GDPR defines the controller as: “the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body
who, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing; when the purposes and means of this processing are determined by
Union law or the law of a Member State, the controller may be designated or the specific criteria applicable to his designation may be
provided for by Union law or by the law of a Member State.

274 article 4, point 8 of the GDPR defines the processor as: “the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other body which processes

personal data on behalf of the controller”.

275 the purpose mentioned in point 3), paragraph (2) of the new article 6 bis of the amended law of 5 June 2009 aims at “interconnection with electronic networks

nationals of other Member States of the European Union as provided for in Article 10 bis of Directive 2003/59/EC”.

276 the initial version of the law of 2 August 2002 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, now repealed,
defined in Article 2, letter (j) interconnection as: “any form of processing which consists of the correlation of data processed for a purpose with
data processed for the same or related purposes by one or more controllers”.

annual report 214 2019 cnpd

referred to in point 3) of paragraph (2) of the new Article 6 bis in a single point, whereas these two paragraphs
seem to have the same purpose, namely the exchange of information relating to training.

indeed, the purpose referred to in point 4) of paragraph (2) of the new Article 6 bis is the “exchange of information relating to
training certificates provided for in Article 3” and the purpose referred to in point 3) of the same article refers to the purpose
mentioned in the new article 10 bis of directive 2003/59/EC, introduced by the directive, which aims at the exchange
information “on Caps issued or withdrawn”.

iv. On the categories of personal data and data subjects

the National Commission welcomes the fact that the categories of personal data collected
and transmitted by approved training organizations to the Minister are specified and listed with
as much detail in the new article 6 bis paragraph (4) of the amended law of 5 June 2009, introduced by the law
under notice.

however, the CnpD wonders what are the categories of data referred to by the term "information
necessary to finance the training”, employee in letter c), paragraph (4) of the aforementioned article, then
that no additional details concerning this type of data are provided in the comments of the
authors of the bill concerning these provisions.

In addition, the National Commission is also wondering whether or not certain categories of information are collected.
data which are referred to by the authors of the bill under opinion, in their comments relating to the new
Article 6 bis, without however being repeated in the text of that article. It should, in fact, be noted that the
“information relating to professional training (category, period of validity)” and “information on
administrative procedures relating to certificates”, although mentioned in the comments of the draft
law, do not appear in the text of the new article 6 bis.

v. On access to personal data

It should be noted that the provisions set out in paragraph (6) of the new Article 6 bis of the amended law
of June 5, 2009, introduced by the law under opinion, provide for access "to the data contained in the database of
data” for members of the Grand Ducal police and agents of the customs and excise administration
within the framework of the purpose referred to in paragraph (2), point 1) of the aforementioned article.

the National Commission understands that these new legal provisions aim to implement the provisions
of paragraph (3) of the new Article 10a of Directive 2003/59/EC, introduced by the Directive, which provides that:
“Member States shall ensure that personal data are processed solely for the purpose of monitoring

Annual Report

215

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

compliance with this Directive, and in particular the training requirements set out in this Directive,
in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council”.

However, insofar as a law must be sufficiently clear and precise in order to allow the persons concerned
to know the extent of the limitations, as well as the possible consequences for them277, it would be appropriate to
specify the legal framework for checks that may be carried out by members of the Grand Ducal police and agents
customs and excise administration. the National Commission therefore recommends inserting at the end of the
paragraph (6) of the new Article 6 bis, the following wording: "in accordance with their supervisory powers such as
referred to in paragraph (3) of Article 7 of this Law”.

moreover, would the access provided for members of the Grand-Ducal police under the law under opinion not already be
provided for by points 7) and 8) of article 43 of the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police which provides
that: “In the exercise of their judicial police and administrative police missions, the members of the
police having the status of judicial police officer or administrative police officer have direct access, through a
information system, to the processing of the following personal data: […] 7° the file of holders and
driving license applicants operated on behalf of the minister responsible for transport;
(8) the register of road vehicles and their owners and keepers, operated on behalf of the Minister having
transport in its attributions […]”?

vi. On access traceability

According to article 5 paragraph (1), letter f) of the rGpd the personal data must be
“processed in a way that ensures appropriate security of personal data, including the protection
against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage,
using appropriate technical or organizational measures (integrity and confidentiality).

in addition, article 32 of the GDPR provides that: “the controller and the processor shall implement the
appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk”.
such measures must be implemented in order to avoid in particular unauthorized access to data or
data leaks.

Among these security measures, the National Commission considers it important that only people who have them
necessary in the exercise of their functions and professional tasks are entitled to have access to the
necessary data. In this context, it is strongly recommended to define a management policy for
access, in order to be able to identify the person or service from the start, within each entity or administration
concerned, who would have access to the data or, within the framework of the administrations, to the computer interface
made available by the CtIe, and to what specific data this person or this service would have access.

277 See among others CourtDH, Zakharov c. Russia [GC], n°47413/06, § 228-229, December 4, 2015.
278 Article 7, paragraph (3) of the amended law of 5 June 2009 provides that: “members of the Grand-Ducal police as well as agents of the administration of
customs and excise acting within the framework of vehicle checks carried out in the exercise of the functions conferred on them by the legislation on
road transport and road traffic are responsible for monitoring the implementation of the provisions of this law and its implementing regulations and for drawing up
offense report”.

annual report 216 2019 cnpd

in addition, it is necessary to provide an access logging system. Finally, the Cnpd recommends that
logging data are kept for a period of five years from their recording, period
after which they are erased, except when they are the subject of a control procedure.

2. on the exchange of personal data

paragraph (5) of the new article 6 bis of the amended law of 5 June 2009 aims to transpose paragraph (1) of the
new article 10a of directive 2003/56/EC, introduced by the directive.

First of all, concerning the exchange of personal data, the Commission Nationale would like to point out that
personal data can circulate freely from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg within
the european economic area, as long as the general principles of the GDPR are respected.

moreover, the National Commission wonders whether the wording of paragraph (5) of the new article
6 bis of the amendment of June 5, 2009 would not have a wider scope than the provisions of the
directive concerning the data subject to such an exchange. indeed, subsection (2) of the new section
10 bis of Directive 2003/56/EC, introduced by the directive, provides that: “may appear on the network of
information contained in the certificates of professional aptitude (Cap) as well as information
concerning administrative procedures relating to Caps”, whereas paragraph (5) of the new
aforementioned article 6 bis provides that “the Minister may communicate the data contained in the database of
data ".

For the sake of correct transposition of the directive, the CnpD wonders whether such wording is wrong
beyond the legal provisions provided for by the directive if it actually covers a wider field of
categories of data that may be the subject of such an exchange. This would amount, in fact, to providing for an exchange of
data on categories of data not provided for in the directive.

moreover, such wording could lead, where appropriate, to non-compliance with the principle of limitation
purposes, as mentioned above, nor the principle of minimization of data279, whereas there could be
collected categories of data which have not been collected for the purposes referred to in paragraph (2),
point 3, of the aforementioned new article 6 bis or whose collection is not necessary for the purposes of achieving the purpose
aforementioned.

3. on the retention period of personal data

the National Commission regrets that the law under opinion does not mention the retention period of
personal data collected for the purposes set out in paragraph (2) of Article 6a.

279 the principle of data minimization means that the data controller must only process data that is necessary (and not only useful)

to the achievement of the goals.

Annual Report

217

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

however, in accordance with article 5 paragraph (1), letter e) of the GDPR, personal data must not be
be kept longer than necessary to achieve the purposes for which they are collected
and processed.

in the absence of clarification on this point in the bill or in the commentary to the articles, the Cnpd is not
able to assess whether, in this case, the principle of limited data retention period has been respected
regarding the collection of this data.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on november 15, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

annual report 218 2019 cnpd

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection with regard to
government amendments to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the measures
of execution relating to the aid for the financing of rental guarantees provided for by the
articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning aid
to housing.

Deliberation n°54/2019 of November 25, 2019

In accordance with Article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of Regulation No. 2016/679 of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the freedom
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general data protection regulation)
(hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission refers
national data protection system and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and other
institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and
freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.

Following the request sent to him by the Minister of Housing dated October 15, 2019,
the National Commission intends to present below its thoughts and comments on the amendments
government:

- the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the implementing measures relating to assistance in financing guarantees
rentals provided for by articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning
housing assistance, and

- the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum criteria of health, hygiene, safety and
of habitability which must be met by the accommodation and rooms rented out or made available to
residential purposes.

the CnpD limits its observations to questions dealing with aspects relating to data protection, raised
more particularly by articles 2 and 3 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation setting the implementing measures
relating to aid for the financing of rental guarantees provided for by articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 of the law
of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance (hereinafter: "the draft Grand-Ducal regulation"). She
therefore does not intend to comment on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation determining the minimum criteria
health, hygiene, safety and habitability which the accommodation and rooms provided must meet
rented or made available for residential purposes.

Annual Report

219

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

It should be noted that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation originates from draft law no. 7258, transformed into
bill no. 7258a amending the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance. This
bill intends in particular to introduce new articles 14quater-1 and 14quater-2 in the amended law of
25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance, in order to align the provisions relating to assistance in financing
rental guarantees to those concerning the rent subsidy.

on September 14, 2018, the National Commission had issued an opinion on both this bill and the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination (deliberation no. 450/2018, parliamentary document 7258/03).
it therefore limits its comments to the changes introduced by the amendments to the draft regulation
Grand Ducal and refers for the remainder to his comments and suggestions made on the occasion of his previous
notice.

Ad article 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, as amended

In its opinion of 14 September 2018, the CnpD noted that the draft Grand-Ducal regulation implicitly provided
in its article 2 the categories of data that could be processed by the Ministry of Housing for the purposes of
examination or review of a request for assistance in financing a rental guarantee, as well as their origin.
however, it regretted the old wording of paragraph (2) of this Article 2 (“the applicant provides, on
request of the Minister, all information and documents necessary for the examination of his request"), which
hardly seemed to him to conform to the principle of foreseeability to which any legal or regulatory text must comply and
also left the data subject to run the risk of having to transmit more
of personal data according to his particular situation, or even the assessment of the agent of the
ministry that would have to deal with his request (situation that would be likely to contravene the principle of equal
before the law, enshrined in Article 10bis of the Constitution).

Following the amendments proposed by the Government on the basis of the observation made by the Council of State in
its opinion of 9 October 2018 (C.e. opinion no. 52.750), Article 2 paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
now reads as follows: "in the event that the Minister asks the applicant for information and
additional or additional documents and if the applicant does not submit them within three months, the file
application is closed and the applicant will not be able to claim the requested aid”.

the National Commission nevertheless regrets that this new wording does not really meet its
comments made in its opinion of September 14, 2018, insofar as the draft regulation
ducal does not specify what these categories of data are, “additional information and documents or
additional information” which may be requested by the Minister, which raises the question of transparency vis-à-vis
of the citizen wishing to obtain assistance with the financing of a rental guarantee, and runs a possible risk of
arbitrary treatment with regard to the granting of this aid.

annual report 220 2019 cnpd

Ad article 3 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, as amended

article 3 of the draft grand-ducal regulation initially provided, in its first paragraph, second paragraph:
“the credit institution with which the applicant has opened a conditional deposit contract obtains a
copy of the decision of granting or refusal for information”.

paragraph 3 of this same article 3 read as follows: “in the event of granting the aid, the
applicant is required to send the Minister without delay a copy of the conditional deposit contract entered into between
the applicant and the credit institution”.

the amendments aim to remove these two provisions from Article 3 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

According to the commentary to the amendments, it was necessary to delete subparagraph 2 of paragraph 1 "because the practice
has shown that there is no point for the financial institution to obtain a copy of the decision to grant or
refusal of aid “for information”. the National Commission welcomes this amendment, insofar as it allows
to avoid unnecessary or even disproportionate transmission of personal data to third parties, in this case
credit institutions.

As for paragraph 3, it no longer made sense in view of the condition provided for in Article 14quater-1, paragraph
2, point 4° of the amended law of 25 February 1979 concerning housing assistance, according to which "the assistance cannot be
granted only if the applicant has previously opened a conditioned deposit account with an establishment
credit ". the National Commission therefore understands that the transmission of a copy of the deposit agreement to the
Minister was no longer necessary and indeed considers that this information should therefore not be collected
nor processed by the Minister after the granting of housing assistance.

she wonders however, in the event that a copy of the deposit contract is collected from the applicant
before the aid is granted for the purpose of verifying whether he meets the condition provided for in Article 14quater-1(2),
point 4° of the aforementioned law, if it would not be appropriate to include this element in the information to be appended to the
application form, set out in Article 2 paragraph (1) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on november 25, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection,

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

Annual Report

221

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to 1. the draft
law no. 7475 amending the amended law of 26 July 2002 on the police and on
operation of Luxembourg airport as well as the construction of a new
terminal; 2. the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and
the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport.

Deliberation n°59/2019 of December 17, 2019

In accordance with Article 57 paragraph (1) letter (c) of European Regulation 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 relating
to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter referred to as “the GDPR”), as well as in Article
46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for purposes
purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of penalties
criminal cases, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI, each
supervisory authority has the task of advising "in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament,
the government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative and administrative measures relating to
the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing. »

article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the protection of
data and the general data protection regime specifically provides that the National Commission for
data protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”) carries out the missions
with which it is invested by virtue of article 57 of the GDPR, while article 8 point 3° of the said law of August 1, 2018 is
based on article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of the aforementioned directive (eu) n° 2016/680 by providing that the CnpD
“advises the Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies on the measures
legislative and administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data”.

by letter dated September 23, 2019, the Minister of Mobility and Public Works invited
the National Commission to rule on draft law no. 7475 amending the amended law of
26 July 2002 on the police and on the operation of luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a
new terminal, on the one hand, and on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and
conditions of access to luxembourg airport, on the other hand.

by letter dated December 9, 2019, the Minister of Mobility and Public Works invited the
National Commission to rule on the government amendment relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation
relating to civil aviation security and the conditions of access to Luxembourg airport.

annual report 222 2019 cnpd

at european level, civil aviation security is regulated by regulation (ec) 300/2008 of 11 march
2008 on the establishment of common rules in the field of civil aviation security, as well as
by the implementing regulation (eu) 2015/1998 of the European Commission of 5 November 2015 as regards
concerns the clarification, harmonization and simplification as well as the strengthening of certain
specific aviation security. In view of the terrorist threats throughout Europe and the growing number
offenses linked to terrorist activities, the European Commission has recently amended Regulation (eu)
2015/1998 cited above by implementing regulation (eu) 2019/103 of 23 January 2019. According to the presentation of
reasons for Bill No. 7475, the draft legislative and regulatory text under examination specifically aims to
implement the said amendment to Implementing Regulation 2015/1998 "as regards clarification,
the harmonization and simplification as well as the strengthening of certain specific aviation security measures and
in particular provisions regarding background checks to determine the reliability of a
person ".

the National Commission intends to limit its observations to the provisions of the two drafts, including the
provisions of the government amendment relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, submitted to it for an opinion which
have an impact on privacy and the protection of personal data.

1. preliminary remarks

the sole article of bill no. 7475 amending the amended law of 26 July 2002 on the police and
on the operation of luxembourg airport as well as on the construction of a new terminal (hereinafter: "the
bill") aims to replace article 1 of the aforementioned law of July 26, 2002. According to the authors of the bill
of law, this article aims to make two fundamental changes:

- the reliability of a person is no longer verified by a pre-employment check carried out by the employer
and, where applicable, by a background check carried out by the Grand Ducal police280, but according to
the circumstances, through a regular background check, or even a background check
reinforced. According to the implementing regulation 2019/103 of the European Commission, the checks prior to
hiring must cease before July 31, 2019. people who have undergone a pre-hiring check
must undergo a background check by June 30, 2020.

- a change in powers will take place in the sense that even if the Grand Ducal police will continue
to carry out the background check, it is up to the minister having the Grand Ducal police in his
powers (hereinafter: the “Minister” or the “Ministry”) to take the final decision. authors
justify this modification by "the sensitivity and importance of the decisions to be taken, and in order to reinforce the
legality of administrative acts relating to background checks and thus increase legal certainty,
the final competence should no longer come under the Grand Ducal police, but should be raised to the level
ministerial. ".

280 as currently provided for by Article 12.3 paragraph (1), paragraph 4 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 24 February 2016 relating to the conditions of access to the airport of

Luxembourg and the security controls applicable there.

Annual Report

223

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

as a preliminary point, it should be recalled that directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 april 2016281 (hereinafter referred to as
“Directive 2016/680”), establishes rules relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data which are to be respected by the competent authorities for the purposes of
prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of
criminal sanctions, including protection against threats to public security and prevention of such
threats.282 As a European directive binds the Member States only as to the result to be achieved, while
leaving national authorities the competence as to form and means283, said Directive 2016/680
clearly leaves a margin of maneuver for the benefit of the Member States in its article 1st paragraph (3) which
specifies that it “does not prevent Member States from providing more extensive guarantees than those established in
this Directive for the protection of the rights and freedoms of data subjects with regard to the processing
personal data by the competent authorities. ".

Furthermore, Directive 2016/680 provides that to be lawful, the processing must be necessary for
the execution of a mission of the competent authority, correspond to the purposes for which it was set up
place, but also and above all, it must be provided for either by the law of the union or by the law of a Member State284. in
Furthermore, Directive 2016/680 specifies that the national provision regulating said processing must at least
specify: the purposes of the processing, the personal data to be processed and the
purposes of the processing285. It is clear from this provision that these three elements constitute the minimum threshold that a
national provision regulating processing falling within the scope of Directive 2016/680
must respect. the CnpD would like to refer to its observations made in this respect in its notice relating to the file
Central of the Grand Ducal Police with regard to data protection legislation issued on September 13
2019286.

Directive 2016/680 was transposed by the Luxembourg legislator by the law of August 1, 2018
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security (hereinafter: “the law of 1 August 2018 on
criminal justice and national security). In the commentary to the articles of bill n°7168
became the law of August 1, 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the authors had
clarified that the relationship between the GDPR and the future law is precisely that of a “lex generalis” in relation to
a “lex specialis” in the sense that all processing of personal data falls under the GDPR
“unless two conditions are met cumulatively: 1) the data must be processed by a
competent authority within the meaning of directive (eu) n°2016/680 as defined in article 3, point 7), of the draft
law under consideration, and 2) the data must be processed for one of the purposes referred to in Article 1 of the draft
of law. ".

Article 6 of the GDPR defines the different conditions of lawfulness for which processing is possible. in others
terms, the data controller must beforehand and for each processing of personal data,

281 Directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal penalties, and to the free
movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JaI.

282 article 1 paragraph (1) of Directive 2016/680.
283 provided for by Article 288, paragraph 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
284 article 8 paragraph (1) of Directive 2016/680.
285 article 8 paragraph (2) of Directive 2016/680.
286 Deliberation n°45/2019 of September 13, 2019.

annual report 224 2019 cnpd

determine the condition of lawfulness applicable thereto. in particular, it should be remembered that the processing of data
of a personal nature collected and processed in the context of the performance of a mission of public interest or falling
of the exercise of official authority vested in the controller must have a legal basis
in accordance with article 6 paragraph (3) of the GDPR, read together with its paragraph (1) letters c) and e)287 which
provides that: “the basis for the processing referred to in paragraph 1, points c) and e), is defined by:

vs. union law; Or
d. the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

the purposes of the processing are defined in this legal basis or, with regard to the processing referred to in
paragraph 1(e) are necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or relating to the exercise
of the official authority vested in the controller. This legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, inter alia: the conditions
general rules governing the lawfulness of processing by the controller; the types of data that are the subject
processing; the people concerned; the entities to which the personal data can
be communicated and the purposes for which they may be communicated; purpose limitation; the durations of
conservation; and processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure processing
lawful and fair, such as those provided for in other specific processing situations as provided for in
chapter IX. »

It follows from the foregoing that this article provides for a particular constraint linked to the lawfulness of data processing.
data necessary for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a mission of public interest or relating to
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. In these two cases, the
basis and purposes of data processing must be specifically defined either by European Union law
European Union, or by the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

In addition, recital (45) of the GDPR specifies that it should “[…] belong to union law or to the law
of a Member State to determine the purpose of the processing. moreover, this law could specify the conditions
general rules of this Regulation governing the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, establish the
specifications aimed at determining the controller, the type of personal data making
the purpose of the processing, the persons concerned, the entities to which the personal data can be
be disclosed, purpose limitations, retention periods and other measures to ensure
lawful and fair processing. […]”.

under the above provisions, these legal bases should establish specific provisions aimed at
to determine, among other things, the types of data processed, the persons concerned, the entities to which the
data may be communicated and for what purposes, the data retention periods or even
processing operations and procedures.

287 Article 6, paragraph (1), letters c) and e) provides that: “the processing is lawful only if, and insofar as, at least one of the following conditions is met:
fulfilled: (…) c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject; (…) e) the processing is necessary
for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller; (…)”.

Annual Report

225

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Recital (41) GDPR further states that “this legal basis or legislative measure should be clear
and precise and its application should be foreseeable for the litigants, in accordance with the case-law of the Court
of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. ".

thus, the National Commission must emphasize the fundamental importance of the principle of lawfulness of processing
of personal data which must be read in the light of Article 8 paragraph (2) of the Convention
European Court of Human Rights concerning the right to respect for private life, as well as Article 52
paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. in essence, these two
articles, together with the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights, hold that a
data processing carried out by a public authority may constitute an interference with the right to respect for
privacy or limit the exercise of the right to data protection. This interference or limitation may be justified
provided that it:

- is provided for by a law accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its repercussions, i.e.

formulated with sufficient precision;

- is necessary in a democratic society, subject to the principle of proportionality;
- respects the essential content of the right to data protection;
- effectively meets objectives of general interest or the need to protect the rights and freedoms of others.

with regard to the first condition, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights,
an interference with the right to respect for private life is not “in accordance with the law”, within the meaning of Article 8 paragraph
(2) of the European Convention on Human Rights288, only if it is based on an article of national law which
has certain characteristics. the expression “prescribed by law” therefore implies in particular that the legislation
internal must use terms that are clear enough to indicate to everyone sufficiently in what circumstances and
under what conditions it empowers the public authorities to resort to measures affecting their rights
protected by the Convention289. the law must be “accessible to the persons concerned and foreseeable as to its
repercussions”290. a rule is foreseeable "if it is formulated with sufficient precision to allow
any person – possibly benefiting from appropriate assistance – to adapt his behavior”291 as well
that "the degree of precision required of the 'law' in this regard will depend on the subject matter in question. »292.

in order to fulfill these criteria of accessibility and predictability of the law, on the one hand, and thus limit possible
arbitrary and abusive behavior on the part of public authorities, on the other hand, national law can therefore
provide for and regulate more specifically the processing of personal data carried out by such
authorities, such as the Minister or the Grand Ducal police. This legal framework would also guarantee
the principle of legal certainty for the benefit of the persons concerned, as well as the various managers of the

288 Article 8 paragraph (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that: “There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise
of this right only insofar as such interference is prescribed by law and constitutes a measure which, in a democratic society, is necessary for the security
national security, public safety, the economic well-being of the country, the maintenance of order and the prevention of criminal offences, the protection of health or
morality, or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others”.

289 CoueDH, Fernández Martinez c. Spain [GC], n°56030/07, para. 117.
290 CoueDH, amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95, February 16, 2000, para. 50; see also CoueDH, Kopp c. Switzerland, n°23224/94, March 25, 1998, para. 55 and

CoueDH, Iordachi and others v. Moldova, n°25198/02, February 10, 2009, para. 50.

291 CoueDH, amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95, February 16, 2000, para. 56; see also CoueDH, Malone v. United Kingdom, n°8691/79, 26 April 1985, para. 66;

CoueDH, Silver and others v. 5947/72, 6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, 25 March 1983, para. 88.

292 CoueDH, the Sunday times v. United Kingdom, No. 6538/74, April 26, 1979, para. 49; see also CoueHD, Silver and others c. UK, n°5947/72,

6205/73, 7052/75, 7061/75, 7107/75, 7113/75, March 25, 1983, para. 88.

annual report 226 2019 cnpd

treatment. legal certainty is even a general principle of European Union law, requiring
in particular that any regulation resulting in unfavorable consequences for individuals should be clear
and precise and its foreseeable application for litigants. the regulations must allow interested parties to
know exactly the extent of the obligations it imposes on them, must allow them to know without
ambiguity of their rights and obligations and allow them to make arrangements accordingly293.

This is why the European Court of Human Rights in its case law affirms that
“domestic law must offer some protection against arbitrary attacks by public power on
rights guaranteed by Article 8 paragraph 1”294. therefore, the law “must define the extent and manner
exercise of power with sufficient clarity – taking into account the legitimate aim pursued – to provide the individual
adequate protection against arbitrariness”. the court of justice of the european union considers that in the event of
limitation of the protection of personal data or the right to respect for private life a legal text
“must provide clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of the measure in question and imposing
a minimum of requirements so that the persons whose data has been retained have guarantees
sufficient to effectively protect their personal data against the risk of misuse as well as
only against any unlawful access and use of such data.

moreover, the protection of personal data constitutes at the national level a matter reserved for the
law insofar as it relates to the protection of the privacy of citizens (Article 11 paragraph (3) of the Constitution). in
under article 32, paragraph (3), of the Constitution, in the said matters reserved to the law by the Constitution,
“The Grand Duke can only issue regulations and decrees by virtue of a specific legal provision which sets,
in addition to the objectives, the principles and essential points of the implementing measures. »297.

the essential elements298, the objectives and the principles299 must therefore appear in the law in the strict sense of the
term.

There is no doubt that the data processing carried out by the Minister and the Grand Ducal police in the
background checks constitute an interference with the right to respect for private life and the right
to data protection, so that the conditions and methods of this processing must be
be provided for in law.

That being said, the CnpD wishes to draw attention to the fact that the bill submitted to it for opinion should
necessarily specify the purpose pursued by the processing of personal data carried out
in the context of background checks and who has the quality of data controller for the operations
aforementioned as explained below in points 1.1 and 1.2. of the opinion. This precision is all the more important

293 See e.g. Court of Human Rights, aurubis Balgaria of 31 March 2011, C-546/09, points 42-43; judgment, alfamicro c. Commission of 14 November 2017, t-831/14, points 155-157.
294 ECtHR, amann c. Switzerland [GC], n°27798/95 para 56.
295 Ibid. See also Court of Human Rights, Malone c. United Kingdom, series a n°82, of August 2, 1984, pp. 31-32, para.66; Court of Human Rights, Fernández Martínez v. Spain
Ce:eCHr:2014:0612JuD005603007, 12 June 2014 para.117; Court eDH, liberty and others c. United Kingdom, n°58243/00, of July 1, 2008, para. 62 and 63;
ECtHR, rotaru c. romania, app. no. 28341/95, May 4, 2000, para. 57 to 59 and Court eDH, S and Marper c. United Kingdom, applications no. 30562/04 and 30566/04, of
December 4, 2008 para. 99.; Dimitrov-Kazakov v. Bulgaria n°11379/03, of February 10, 2011.

296 judgment of 8 April 2014, Digital rights Ireland and others C-293/12 and C-594/12, eu:C:2014:238, paragraph 54.
297 Opinion No. 52976 of the Council of State of 24 July 2018 relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation 1. amending the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 10 August 2005 relating
to the operation of the pilot high school, and 2. repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 27 August 2012 relating to classes in the upper division of education
secondary in the training cycle of the ermesinde high school.

298 judgment of the Constitutional Court - judgments n°00132 and 00133 of March 2, 2018.
299 Opinion No. 52976 of the Council of State of 24 July 2018 relating to the draft Grand-Ducal regulation 1. amending the amended Grand-Ducal regulation of 10 August 2005 relating
to the operation of the pilot high school, and 2. repealing the Grand-Ducal regulation of 27 August 2012 relating to classes in the upper division of education
secondary in the training cycle of the ermesinde high school.

Annual Report

227

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

in the context of the two texts under opinion, because it potentially entails the application of a different legal framework
in terms of data protection. Indeed, while the GDPR generally applies to the processing
personal data carried out by a controller or a processor established on the
territory of the European Union, Directive 2016/680 establishes specific data protection rules
when the processing is carried out by a controller who acts as a competent authority “for the purposes
prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of
criminal sanctions, including protection against threats to public security and prevention of such
threat. (Article 1 paragraph (1) of Directive 2016/680).

1.1. as to the purpose pursued

with regard first of all to the purpose pursued by the processing of personal data carried out in
as part of the background checks of a person who is obliged by European regulations
and national authority to submit to such verification, the CnpD finds that the said purpose is not specified in
the body of draft texts. however, it is of the opinion that it follows from the general scheme of the implementing regulation
2015/1998 amended by European Commission Regulation 2019/103, regulation that both texts
under review aim to implement, that these checks aim to strengthen security at airports this
which can be considered as a preventive measure against threats to public safety. in
Indeed, due to the recent evolution of security technologies and equipment, necessary in order to face
to the new faces of the terrorist threat, it is all the more important that people working in
the airport area provide a high degree of assurance and reliability, while possessing the capabilities and
physical and mental abilities required to perform effectively the tasks assigned to them.
the European Commission has specifically considered that changes to the common basic standards in
the field of aviation security concern, among other things, "the revision of the rules relating to the verification of
track record to build safety culture and resilience. »300.

thus, on the basis of the aforementioned considerations and without additional explanations by the authors of the project
of law, the CnpD is of the opinion that the purpose pursued by the processing of personal data carried out
in the context of background checks falls a priori within the material scope of the law of the 1st
August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security. As mentioned above, she recommends
authors to specify the purpose pursued by the processing of personal data in the body of the
text of the bill.

however, the second condition of said scope, as mentioned above, must still be fulfilled,
i.e. the processing of data for criminal and national security purposes must be carried out by “any
competent public authority or any other body or entity entrusted, for the same purposes, with the exercise of
public authority and the prerogatives of public power”. It is precisely in this respect that the definition of

300 Recital (4) of Commission Implementing Regulation 2019/103 of 23 January 2019.
301 article 1 paragraph (1) of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.

annual report 228 2019 cnpd

responsible for the processing plays a crucial role and the CnpD allows itself to identify the potential configurations in the
matter with the implications and problems that they can cause at the legislative level. gold, fault
precision in the draft texts, it can only outline different options.

1.2. as to the controller

According to the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the person responsible for the
processing is the competent authority which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means
processing of personal data. under the GDPR, the controller is defined
such as the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which alone determines
or jointly with others the purposes and means of the processing303.

first of all, as the reliability of a future employee of the airport is no longer established by a check prior to
the hiring carried out by the employer, which seems to be in cash the Luxembourg airport company (the company
known as "lux-airport")304, it cannot be considered responsible for the data processing carried out
as part of background checks.

next, it is important to remember that the minister responsible for the Grand Ducal police ensures
the final responsibility of the Grand Ducal Police in terms of decisions concerning the granting or refusal of a
background check. If the Grand-Ducal police are currently competent to take decisions
relating to background checks, the bill now transfers this jurisdiction to the minister.
indeed, the commentary to the sole article paragraph (2) of the bill expressly mentions that “in view of the
sensitivity and importance of these decisions, it was decided by mutual agreement between the entities concerned that
the final responsibility for background checks should no longer lie with the Grand Ducal police,
but will need to be elevated to ministerial level, and the Department of Homeland Security has been identified as a department
the most appropriate to take on this mission. ".

thus, for lack of precision in the text of the bill, it is not easy to identify the person(s) responsible for the
processing within the meaning of article 4 point 7) of the GDPR and article 2 point 8 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
criminal law and national security. It is therefore essential to know in more detail the operations
of the data processing in question. What data and information does the Grand Ducal Police keep in
Minister and on the basis of what elements the latter will make his decision following a request for verification of the
background? do the police content themselves with objectively aggregating all the information found
on the person who submitted a request for verification and to send them to the Minister or does he already carry out
a first evaluation of said information? depending on the answers to these questions, further developed
in more detail under point “ad. art. 13. Background check request”, three different hypotheses
are possible:

302 article 2 paragraph (1) point 8° of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
303 article 4 point 7 GDPR.
304 This is the organization designated under the amended law of 26 July 2002 on the police and on the operation of Luxembourg airport as well as on the

construction of a new terminal for the operation of luxembourg airport.

Annual Report

229

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

1. the Minister could be considered responsible for the data processing carried out within the framework of the
final decision, while the Grand Ducal Police would be responsible for the data processing carried out in
as part of the background check itself. In the event that the minister should be considered as
competent authority within the meaning of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of security
national, the two data processing operations would fall under the scope of the said
law of 1 August 2018, the police being clearly to be qualified as such a competent authority within the meaning of
this law. If the Minister would not be considered as a "competent authority" within the meaning of the law of 1 August
2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the processing carried out by him would fall within
the scope of the GDPR, which would not be wise in view of the purposes pursued which fall
clearly within the scope of the said law. the CnpD therefore recommends that the authors of the draft
law to provide in law that the Minister is to be considered as the competent authority within the meaning of Article 2
paragraph (1) point 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters and in matters of national security.
Article 2 paragraph (1) point 8° of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018 even expressly provides that if “the
purposes and means of data processing are determined by European Union law or the law
Luxembourg, the controller or the specific criteria applicable to his appointment may
be provided for by European Union law or Luxembourg law. »

2. the concept of “joint liability” introduced by article 20 of the law of 1 August 2018 in terms of
criminal justice as well as national security,305 could also be taken into account in this context. there
National Commission is of the opinion that it could, if necessary, emerge from the general scheme of the two texts
submitted to him that the Minister on one side, and the Grand Ducal Police on the other side, participate jointly in the
achievement of the purposes and means of the processing of personal data carried out within the framework of the
background checks.

3. It could also be envisaged that the Grand Ducal police act as a subcontractor of the Minister, in the case
where the Minister can be qualified as competent authority within the meaning of Article 2 paragraph (1) point 7 of
the law of 1 August 2018 on criminal matters and on national security.

the CnpD therefore recommends that the authors of the bill specify in the body of the text of the bill who has the
quality of controller and, where applicable, processor, with regard to background checks.

2. as regards the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on civil aviation security and the conditions of access to

Luxembourg airport, as modified by the government amendment of 09 December 2019

the draft Grand-Ducal regulation relating to civil aviation security and the conditions of access to the airport of
luxembourg, as modified by the government amendment of 09 December 2019 (hereinafter: the “draft
Grand-Ducal Regulation”) aims to repeal the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 24 February 2016 relating to the conditions of access

305 Article 20 of the law of 1 August 2018 on criminal matters and on national security provides that: “(1) when two data controllers or
no longer jointly determine the purposes and means of processing, they are joint controllers. joint controllers
define in a transparent manner their respective obligations for the purposes of ensuring compliance with the law, in particular with regard to the exercise of the rights of the
data subject, and their respective obligations regarding the communication of the information referred to in Articles 11 and 12, by agreement between them. point
single point of contact for data subjects, so that they can exercise their rights, is designated in the agreement. (2) Irrespective of the terms of
agreement referred to in paragraph 1, the person concerned may exercise the rights conferred on him by this law with regard to and against each of the persons responsible for the
treatment. »

annual report 230 2019 cnpd

at luxembourg airport and the security checks applicable there (hereinafter: "the grand-ducal regulation of 24
February 2016”) and to align existing national legislation with the current European framework.

ad art. 6. the day pass

Article 6 paragraph (3) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that a daily pass is
issued by lux-airport in exchange for an official identification document issued by the Luxembourg authorities
or foreign. As lux-airport should not a priori be considered as a "competent authority" within the meaning
of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the processing carried out
by said company should fall within the scope of the GDPR. the CnpD would like to underline in this
context the importance of the principle of data minimization provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1) letter c) of the
GDPR, providing that data must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the
with regard to the purposes for which they are processed. the CnpD understands in this context that the identity card
is kept until the pass is returned. however, she doubts that the fact of asking in exchange for the leave
daily pass the delivery of an identity document is proportional and necessary, especially if we take into account
Article 15 paragraph (1) of the amended law of 19 June 2013 relating to the identification of persons
physical conditions providing that the identity card is "compulsory from the age of fifteen for nationals
Luxembourgers who usually reside in a municipality on the territory of Luxembourg and is payable
at any requisition of the Grand Ducal police. It follows implicitly from this article that all residents
Luxembourgers aged 15 and over must be able to identify themselves at all times using their card
of identity.

in addition to the provisions of Article 6 paragraph (3) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, paragraph (4) of the said
article provides that the identity of the holder of the day pass and his companion, as well as the hours
entry and exit are recorded in a directory kept at the point of entry to airport security areas.
the CnpD considers that in view of the principle of minimization of data, it therefore appears excessive to keep the
document during the time the person in question is present in the airport zone, whereas lux-airport
is not able to verify whether the identity document is, if necessary, falsified, and that it would be sufficient, after
verification of the identity of the person using the identity document, to add the number of the identity document
in the aforementioned directory next to the entry of the holder of the pass.

moreover, it should be noted that the draft text does not provide for this requirement to exchange a document
of identity against a delimited zone pass on the basis of article 8 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation and
valid for three months. indeed, said article only specifies that the identity of the bearer and his
escort, as well as the times of entry and exit are recorded in a directory kept at the posts
entry to demarcated areas, which seems to be in accordance with the aforementioned principle of minimizing
data.

Annual Report

231

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

the same comment applies to article 9 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation concerning the laissez-passer for
vehicles, which provides that it can be issued in exchange for the registration of the car or the driving license of the
driver. Again, in view of the fact that lux-airport is not able to verify whether the driving license or
the gray card are, if necessary, falsified, and taking into account the principle of minimization of data, it
seems excessive to keep the documents in question. It seems sufficient to note in the directory which is kept at the
entry point of the areas delimited under Article 9 paragraph (3) paragraph 2 of the draft Grand-
ducal, next to the registration of the holder of a pass for vehicles and the times of entry and exit, the
driver's license number, respectively the vehicle identification number which appears on the vehicle registration document.

ad art. 7. visitors and the press

According to article 7 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, visitors and members of the press wishing to proceed to
shots can be issued a daily pass, subject to the granting of an authorization
specific preliminary by the grand-ducal police. the commentary to the article in question mentions in this regard
that as "visitors and members of the press have no real operational need in
the meaning of an airport activity, but that their visits nevertheless correspond to a legitimate reason according to
European regulations, they require prior specific authorization from the Grand-Police.
ducale before you can apply for a day pass. ".

Article 20 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 24 February 2016, which will be repealed by this draft, provides
already that visitors and members of the press, wishing to take pictures inside the enclosure
airport, may be granted authorization by the Grand Ducal police to access security areas
airports. nevertheless, neither article 20 of the current regulatory text nor article 7 of the draft grand-
ducal under opinion or its comment specify on the basis of which criteria the grand-ducal police will take the
decision whether or not it will issue this authorization and whether, if necessary, it will consult national files
or European and international information systems such as the Schengen Information System, the
information from the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) or
the international criminal police organization (Interpol) to make the above decision. CnpD
would like to refer in this context to its comments made under point “ad. art. 13. Request for verification
antecedents”.

in addition, it would be important to know whether other personal data than those mentioned in article 7,
paragraph 2 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation will be dealt with in the context of this procedure and what happens to the
processed data of visitors and members of the press once police clearance has been granted or
No. will the Grand Ducal police create a new clean file with the personal data
collected under the authorizations in question? If this is the case, the question arises, in particular, of who
will have access to the data and how long it will be kept.

annual report 232 2019 cnpd

It also emerges implicitly from the text of Article 7 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation that the Minister is not
not involved in the procedure of the specific authorizations to be granted, if necessary, by the Grand Ducal police
to visitors and members of the press who request it. thus, it appears that under Article 2 paragraph
(1) point 8 of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, the police are
consider as responsible for the data processing carried out within the framework of the said authorizations. CnpD
therefore recommends that authors specify this in the body of the text of the draft under review.

Finally, the CnpD noted that, contrary to article 6 of the Grand-ducal regulation under opinion, its article
7 does not specify who is responsible for issuing day passes for visitors and the press.
is it the company lux-airport? Article 8 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides in this context
that restricted area passes can be issued by the security manager of each entity present
in the demarcated areas. do these entities belong as a whole to lux-airport or do
other companies will be present in the airport area and which would then, if necessary, be competent in
the material? If this is the case, the National Commission recommends specifying it more clearly in the draft
regulatory text.

add. art. 13. background check request

1. the initial collection of personal data by the Grand Ducal police

According to Article 13 paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, a request for a background check
is submitted by the applicant to the Grand Ducal police and not to the Minister. Following such
request, the Grand Ducal police will collect various personal data directly from the
applicants (a so-called "direct" collection of data) (1.1.), but it will also carry out so-called
"indirect" data (1.2.).

1.1. the direct collection of personal data by the Grand Ducal police

paragraph 3 of paragraph (2) of Article 13 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation lists in twelve points which
elements a background check application must contain. the Grand-Ducal police therefore receives directly
of the persons in question the personal data contained in such a request, such as for example
the identity of the applicant, a list of places of residence for the last five years or an extract from the bulletin
number 3 of the criminal record.

the CnpD notes that the amended implementing regulation 2015/1998 does not contain a list in this regard and it welcomes
thus the degree of detail with which the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation specify the personal data
personnel that said application must contain. with regard to the requirement to add to the request “a questionnaire

Annual Report

233

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

duly completed biography", the CnpD wonders, however, what personal data, in addition to
those already listed in said Article 13 paragraph (2) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation, applicants must
provide.

1.2. the indirect collection of personal data by the Grand Ducal police

in addition to the information collected directly from the applicants and for lack of details in the text
of the draft grand-ducal regulation, the Cnpd wonders whether the grand-ducal police will also carry out a
indirect collection and what are the sources of this indirect data collection. The analysis should be split
of this question in two, aiming first for the regular background check (1.2.1) and then for the
enhanced background check (1.2.2). the CnpD will then address, in the absence of details in the text of the
draft Grand-Ducal regulation, the question of the validity period of the various background checks
(1.2.3.).

1.2.1. regular background check

According to Article 11.1.2 of Implementing Regulation 2019/103, Member States may decide to submit the
persons recruited to implement or be responsible for the implementation of the inspection/screening,
access control or other security controls "other than in a security restricted area, or
with unescorted access to air cargo and air mail, air carrier mail and
air carrier equipment, in-flight supplies and airport supplies
who have undergone the required security checks" either to a regular or enhanced background check.
the authors of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation opted in this case for an ordinary background check
(article 14 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation).

article 13 paragraph (3) subparagraph 2 of the draft grand-ducal regulation specifies that any ordinary verification
background must establish the identity of the person on the basis of documents, take into consideration the criminal record
court in all states of residence within the last five years, as well as employment, education and
interruptions over the past five years. said verification must also take account of infringements
mentioned in paragraph (4) of the article in question.

It appears a priori from the aforementioned provisions of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation that the list of elements
to be taken into account by the Grand-Ducal police as part of an ordinary background check is to
consider as exhaustive, i.e. the Grand Ducal police should not take into account other
information that is directly or indirectly available or accessible to it.

annual report 234 2019 cnpd

1.2.2. enhanced background check

paragraph (3) paragraph 1 of article 13 of the draft grand-ducal regulation lists which elements the
enhanced background check must contain. just like ordinary verification, enhanced verification
background must first establish the identity of the person on the basis of documents, take into account
consideration criminal record in all states of residence within the last five years, jobs,
studies and interruptions over the past five years and take into account the offenses mentioned
said subsection (4). however, unlike a regular check, an enhanced background check
must take into consideration, in addition to the aforementioned elements, "information from the intelligence services and
any other relevant information which the competent national authorities have and believe they can
be of interest in assessing a person's ability to perform a function that requires verification
strengthened by its antecedents. »

the CnpD notes that all these elements are reproduced verbatim in point 11.1.3 of the appendix to the regulation
2015/1998 as amended by European Commission Implementing Regulation 2019/103. She
wishes in this regard to make observations related to two different issues:

- 1. the possible access of the Grand Ducal police to its national files and information systems

European and international;

- 2. information from the intelligence services and "any other relevant information which the authorities

competent national authorities have”.

the remarks concerning the first point are also relevant for requests for ordinary verification of
background, but they are of greater importance for the enhanced verification which appears even more
intrusive for the rights and freedoms of data subjects than ordinary verification.

1st problem: possible access by the Grand Ducal police

It appears from Article 13 paragraph (3) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation that the list of elements to be taken
considered in an enhanced background check does not appear to be comprehensive, as
it is provided that “any enhanced background check must at least […]” take into account the said
elements. This wording has also been taken word for word from the implementing regulation of the European Commission
aforementioned. It is not clear from the draft regulatory text under opinion whether the Grand-Ducal police intends
in the context of an enhanced background check request access personal data
contained in its own files or national data processing (numbering 62306), such as by
example the so-called “central” file,307 the “narcotics file”308 the “taxed warnings file”309, etc.,

306 As revealed in a news article entitled “62 tYpeS DE FICHIerS” published on November 7, 2019 on the website of the Chamber of Deputies:
 

https://www.chd.lu/wps/portal/public/accueil/actualite/alaune/?current=true&urile=wcm%3apath%3aactualite.public.chd.lu/St -www.chd.lu/sa-
actualites/3532ef0a-6f63-45c6-9894-186e876dd120 (last accessed December 5, 2019).

307 According to the joint response of the Minister having the Grand Ducal Police in his attributions François BauSCH and the Minister of Justice
Félix BraZ to parliamentary question n°752 of June 4, 2019 the "so-called "central" file includes all the minutes and reports written by the officers and agents
judicial police as part of their judicial police mission. »

308 Who, according to the answer of the minister having the Grand-Ducal police in his attributions to question n°1190 of September 10, 2019 concerning the file in terms of
narcotics from the Grand-Ducal police contains “information relevant to the fight against illicit drug trafficking which may or may not be
personal data. »

309 According to the answer of the minister having the Grand-Ducal police in his attributions François BauSCH to the parliamentary question n°1068 of August 16
2019, the “file of taxed warnings (at) was created within the framework of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 21 December 2004 authorizing the creation of a
file of persons who have undergone a tax warning in terms of road traffic and modification of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 7 June 1979 determining the
acts, documents and files authorized to use the identity number of natural and legal persons. »

Annual Report

235

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

as well as data from European and international information systems such as
aforementioned Schengen, Europol or Interpol information. in view of recent concerns from citizens about
respect for public freedoms and the protection of their personal data in the police and
judiciary, it is all the more important that clarifications on access to the aforementioned files and systems
are found at the level of the law in the formal sense, therefore in the draft law n ° 7475 also under opinion,
especially if we consider the press release of July 22, 2019 from the ministry having the Grand Ducal police in its
attributions on the complete overhaul of the national legislation relating to background checks at the airport
de luxembourg which specifies the following: “Given the complexity of the file, many questions arise and
must be decided, in particular in the context of access to the central police file and the preservation
Datas. »310.

in France, articles l. 6342-2 and l. 6342-3 of the Transport Code specify that access to the zones of
security with regulated access to an aerodrome are subject to an authorization which is preceded by an investigation
administrative giving rise, if necessary, to consultation of bulletin n°2 of the criminal record and the processing
automated processing of personal data managed by the national police and gendarmerie services
subject to the provisions of article 31 of law n°78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing,
files and freedoms, with the exception of identification files. According to said article, the processing of data to
personal nature implemented on behalf of the State and which either concern State security, defense or
public security, or have as their object the prevention, research, observation or prosecution of offenses
criminal proceedings or the execution of criminal convictions or security measures, thus including processing
operated by the national police and gendarmerie services, must be authorized by order of the
competent ministers, taken after publication of a reasoned opinion by the National Commission for Computing and
Libertés (the French counterpart of the CnpD). said processing is thus all legally framed, as by
example, the criminal history file311, the serial analysis file312 or the persons file
wanted313.

furthermore, the question arises as to whether the Grand Ducal police will check the accuracy and
the veracity of the indications of the applicants concerning their employment, studies and interruptions during the five
last years. the CnpD thus wonders whether the police will access, if necessary, the file relating to affiliations
employees, the self-employed and employers managed by the Joint Social Security Center on the basis of
Article 413 of the Social Security Code granted to him by Article 43 point 2° of the amended law of 18 July
2018 on the Grand Ducal Police and whether, in addition, it will access in this context other databases than
those mentioned in said article 43, such as the database of the agency for development
of employment (aDeM). It would also be relevant to know how the Grand Ducal police will verify, if necessary,
the accuracy of the data provided by non-resident workers in their applications. a priori, as
Grand Ducal police do not have access to the corresponding files of foreign countries, this control may
seem less effective and less intrusive than that for resident workers.

https://gouvernement.lu/fr/actualites/toutes_actualites/articles/2019/07-juillet/22-bausch-legislation-aeroport.html (last accessed on October 17, 2019).

310 Press release by the ministry having the Grand-Ducal police in its attributions of July 22, 2019 available on the government website:
 
311 provided for by articles 230-6 to 11 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.
312 provided for by articles 230-12 to 18 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.
313 provided for by article 230-19 of the French Code of Criminal Procedure.

annual report 236 2019 cnpd

2nd issue: intelligence services and “competent national authorities”

Article 13 paragraph (3), point 4° of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that any reinforced verification
background must “take into consideration information from intelligence services and any other
relevant information which the competent national authorities have and consider that they can present
an interest in assessing a person's ability to perform a function that requires enhanced verification of
his background. ". This provision is reproduced in full from article 11.1.3 letter d) of the appendix to the regulations.
2019/103 of the European Commission and the commentary to the articles remains completely silent on this point.
regard. however, the National Commission wishes to highlight three points.

first of all, even if the article in question mentions the intelligence services in the plural, the Commission
understands that at the national level only the Regulated State Intelligence Service is covered
by the amended law of 5 July 2016. article 9 of the said law even expressly provides in its paragraph (2) that
the State Intelligence Service "communicates as soon as possible the information collected in
within the framework of its missions to the judicial authorities, the services of the Grand Ducal police and the administrations
insofar as this information appears useful for the accomplishment of their respective missions. " For
To avoid any ambiguity, the CnpD recommends that the authors replace in the text the words "services of
intelligence” by “the State Intelligence Service”.

then, point 4° under review mentions that the Grand-Ducal police must take into account "any other
relevant information available to the competent national authorities”. It seems essential for the
CnpD that the text specifies which entities are referred to by the above-mentioned terms "the national authorities
competent". indeed, there should be no difficulty in identifying the competent authorities in this
context. for comparison, the German Aviation Safety Act (“luftsicherheitsgesetz”)
lists in its section 7 paragraph (3) which national authorities the transport security administration
airline (“luftsicherheitsbehörde”) may contact as part of a background check and provided
that this is necessary for the assessment of the reliability of the person in question314.

Based on section 2 of the amended law of 22 February 2018 on the exchange of personal data
and information in police matters, the transmission of personal data and information of the
Grand Ducal Police to other State administrations is possible, if a law authorizes this transfer and if the other
conditions cumulatively provided for in Article 24 of the said law are complied with. however, it is not clear from
Article 13 paragraph (4) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation if it actually targets the transmission of data
of the Grand-Ducal police to these competent national authorities, or rather the reverse, i.e. the transfer
of data from the said authorities to the Grand Ducal police. In the government amendments of August 1
2017, the authors of bill no. 6976, which became the aforementioned law of February 22, 2018, specified that section 2
only targets “one-way” transmissions, i.e. from the Grand-Ducal police to

314 These are the following authorities: “polizeivollzugs- und den Verfassungsschutzbehörden der länder sowie, soweit im einzelfall erforderlich, dem Bundeskriminalamt,
dem Zollkriminalamt, dem Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz, dem Bundesnachrichtendienst, dem Militärischen abschirmdienst und der Bundesbeauftragten für die
unterlagen des Staatssicherheitsdienstes der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen republik. »

Annual Report

237

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

State administrations – the transmission of data and information in the other direction is already planned
by article 23, paragraph 2, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. ". however, as the competent authorities will not have
whether a specific person has applied for a background check with the
Grand Ducal police, the latter must contact them on its own initiative. thus, it seems necessary to include
in the draft Grand-Ducal regulation a list which determines the authorities that the Grand-Ducal police must
contact systematically in the event of receipt of a request for a background check.

To conclude and summarize the observations relating to this part, the CnpD considers that draft law n°7475
should specify the possible access of the Grand Ducal police to its own files, to other national files and
European and international information systems as part of background checks. the project
of the Grand-Ducal Regulation should also indicate which entities are referred to by the terms “the authorities
competent national authorities”, as well as the terms and conditions for the transfer of data from these authorities to the
Grand Ducal Police.

1.2.3. how long different background checks are valid

moreover, according to paragraph 2 of paragraph (2) of Article 13 of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under opinion,
the holder of a positive decision relating to the background check must submit an application for
renewal at least three months before the expiry of the current background check. point
11.1.7 of the appendix to the European Commission's implementing regulation 2015/1998 of November 5, 2015,
as amended by European Commission Implementing Regulation 2019/103 of January 23, 2019, leaves
Indeed, the Member States have the choice either to set up a mechanism for the continuous control of the elements
screened through regular and enhanced background checks through prompt notification to
"the competent authority, the operator or the issuing entity, as the case may be, of any event likely to have
an impact on the reliability of the person concerned", or to provide for a renewal at regular intervals
not exceeding twelve months for enhanced background checks and three years for checks
ordinary antecedents. It is only by reading the comments of the articles that we understand that the authors have
intention to repeat said validity periods, and that therefore the ordinary background check has a
validity period of 3 years, while the enhanced verification expires already after 12 months.

2. the criteria to be taken into account by the Grand-Ducal police to issue its opinion

the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation does not specify anywhere what criteria or what degree of seriousness of the
antecedents are taken into account by the Grand Ducal police to assess a request for verification of
antecedents, i.e. to express its opinion on the matter. the CnpD questions in particular whether any registration
criminal record, for example, automatically leads to a negative assessment in terms of verification of
history or whether, on the other hand, the inscriptions must have reached a certain level of seriousness. german law

annual report 238 2019 cnpd

aforementioned concerning aviation safety provides for example in its section 7 paragraph (1a) that a person
has not reached the required level of reliability if, among other things, it has been sentenced in the last ten years to a
imprisonment for at least one year.

By way of comparison, it should be noted that article 26 of the amended law of 8 July 2018 on the police
Ducal authority confers a new mission on the Grand Ducal police, which consists of carrying out checks on request
security of external staff of the institutions, bodies and agencies of the European Union which have their headquarters
in Luxembourg, such as the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Court of Auditors
or the European Investment Bank. Article 3 of the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 28 July 2018 on
execution of said article 26 of the law of 18 July 2018 on the Grand-Ducal police provides that these verifications of
security are carried out on the basis of targeted and specific criteria, indicated by the institution, body or organization
applicant in consultation with the police. the provision in question specifies that at the end of the check, the police
issues an opinion based on the criteria referred to in the first paragraph which it sends to the institution, organization or body for the
account of which the verification was made”. In the commentary to the articles, the authors of the said grand-
ducal explained that this provision is precisely intended to ensure that the police only have to answer in relation to
the existence of exclusion criteria previously established.

in order to avoid arbitrariness and respect the principle of transparency vis-à-vis the applicants for verification
ordinary and reinforced antecedents, the text of the draft grand-ducal regulation should, in the eyes of the CnpD
define in detail what are the criteria to be taken into account by the Grand Ducal police to advise such
asked.

In this vein, a reference to the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union of July 26, 2017
concerning the envisaged agreement between Canada and the European Union on the transfer and processing of personal data
passenger name records is relevant. indeed, the Court considered that for the envisaged agreement to be compatible
with Articles 7 and 8, as well as with Article 52 paragraph (1) of the European Charter of Human Rights,
it must, among other things, “provide that the models and criteria used in the context of the automated processing of
pnr data will be specific and reliable as well as non-discriminatory” and “that the databases used
will be limited to those operated by Canada in connection with the fight against terrorism and crime
serious transnational. »315. the European Data Protection Supervisor had noted in this context that a
evaluation on the basis of constantly changing unknown criteria raises important concerns in terms of
transparency and proportionality.

It is also worth mentioning article 12 of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of security.
national, which lists, except for exceptions provided for in its paragraph (3), the information to be made available
of the data subject by the controller, such as the purposes of the processing, the basis
legal basis for the processing, the data retention period or the categories of data recipients

315 Opinion 1/15 of the CJEU of July 26, 2017 concerning the agreement envisaged between Canada and the European Union on the transfer and processing of file data

passengers, paragraph 232.

316 opinion 2011/C 181/02 of 22 June 2011 of the European Data Protection Supervisor on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council
on the use of Passenger Name Record data for the prevention and detection of terrorist offenses and serious forms of crime, as well as
for Investigation and Prosecution, paragraph 16.

Annual Report

239

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

of a personal nature, as well as additional information, if necessary. for the above reasons of
transparency, the CnpD is of the view that applicants for background checks should be informed of the
criteria on which the Grand-Ducal police notifies their request and the Minister makes his decision.

For the sake of transparency and legal certainty, the CnpD recommends integrating the validity periods of the
various background checks in the body of the text of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation.

3. the data processed within the framework of the opinion of the Grand Ducal police and the decision of the Minister

the CnpD notes that there seems to be a contradiction between article 1st paragraph (2) of bill n°7475
which provides that the Minister makes decisions about background checks on the “advice” of the police
Grand-Ducal Council, and Article 13 paragraph (1), second sentence of the draft Grand-Ducal Regulation which imposes no
only to the Grand-Ducal police the transmission of an opinion to the Minister, but also of “all the data
from background research.

the texts under opinion being more than vague, a certain number of questions arise in this respect:

- Is a new file created by the Grand Ducal police insofar as it collects

direct and indirect data as part of applicants' background checks?

- does it do so as a data controller or as a subcontractor on behalf of the Minister? (see point

“1.2. As for the data controller” of this notice)

- the opinion to be issued by the Grand-Ducal police on the basis of the new article 1st paragraph (2) of bill n°7475
is it limited to a positive or negative assessment relating to the request, insofar as the opinion must a priori
be accompanied by all the data emanating from the research of the antecedents?

- Insofar as Article 13 paragraph (1) of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation provides that the Grand-Ducal policy
Ducale must continue all data emanating from the background research to the minister having the police
grand-ducale within its attributions, will it also create a file within the framework of the data processing in
question or will he delete the data after his decision is made?

finally, article 13 paragraph (1) of the draft grand-ducal regulation provides that within the framework of decisions
relating to background checks, the Minister may ask the Grand-Ducal police for "any information
additional as it deems necessary. the commentary to the articles does not give any further explanation in this regard.
As this formulation is very vague, the CnpD wonders to what extent the Minister will ask for information
additional. could he consider that the information provided for in paragraphs (2) to (4) of Article 13

annual report 240 2019 cnpd

of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation are not sufficient to assess the reliability of an applicant for a
background check or could he feel that the applicant's file given to him by the police
ducal is incomplete or that the Grand Ducal police did not verify or take into account all the information
required ?

in order to meet the forecasting and predictability requirements that a legal text must meet, the Cnpd
considers it necessary that the texts under opinion be clarified in relation to the questions raised above.

4. the data retention period

Article 3 paragraph (1) letter e) of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters and in matters of security
national law provides that the controller may only retain personal data
in a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding that
necessary in relation to the purposes for which the data is processed.

neither draft law no. 7475 nor the draft Grand-Ducal regulation under examination specify a retention period
personal data processed in connection with background check requests.

the CnpD recalls in this context that in its opinion of 28 December 2017 relating to draft law no.
transposition of Directive 2016/680317, the CnpD considered that Article 5 of Directive 2016/680 was not
not correctly transposed into national law in the sense that it should not belong to each manager of the
processing to set the data retention periods, but that it should be up to the legislator to set them
specific manner in special laws and this for each data processing. the legislator did not, however,
did not follow the arguments of the CnpD by choosing to entrust the controller with setting the deadlines
retention of data as well as the procedural rules to ensure compliance with these deadlines318.

however, in the context of the current discussions relating to the central file of the Grand Ducal police, the Minister
having the Grand Ducal Police in its attributions informed the Chamber of Deputies that a bill specifying
the legislative framework of the central file of the Grand Ducal police and, where applicable, other police files, and
taking into account the recommendations of the CnpD, would be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies before the holidays
Christmas.319 With this in mind, the CnpD considers it necessary that bill no. 7475 should specify the deadlines
data retention.

Other countries have specified specific retention periods in their national laws, for example
germany. in fact, paragraph (11) 1st point of section 7 of the aforementioned German law concerning the security
airline provides that air transport security authorities are obliged to delete personal data
collected as part of the background check three years after the validity period of the check. in

317 Deliberation n°1049/2017 of December 28, 2017.
318 article 4 of the law of 1 August 2018 in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security.
319 As revealed in a news article published on September 25, 2019 on the website of the Chamber of Deputies:
 

https://cnpd.msp.etat.lu/Docrdp/2018/2019%2009%2026%20CHD%20Chambre%20des%20D%C3%a9put%C3%a9s%20du%20Grand-
Duch%C3%a9%20de%20luxembourg.pdf (last consulted on December 5, 2019).

Annual Report

241

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

in the event of a negative decision, the deletion of the data is required two years after the refusal or revocation and in the event
withdrawal of a request by the person concerned, immediately after said withdrawal in the event that the request has not
not yet been processed. point 2 of paragraph (11) of the aforementioned section 7 provides for retention periods
specific for different public authorities, which are exhaustively listed by the law in question, and
which air transport security authorities may request information, such as
for example to law enforcement authorities. These authorities are obliged to delete the data processed within the framework
of a background check three months after the expiry of a background check, calculated from the time
of the request for information by an air transport security authority, or, immediately after
having been informed by such an administration of a refusal, withdrawal or revocation of a request for verification
antecedents.

thus, the CnpD recalls its recommendation issued in the context of its opinion on the central file of the
grand-ducal police in which it considers that “the retention periods or at least the criteria applicable
to determine the retention period as well as the procedures allowing the regular verification of the
necessary, said deadlines deserve to be specified by the legislator in order to limit as much as possible the margin of
maneuver of the controller and guarantee the transparency, accessibility and proportionality of said
time limit. »320.

in conclusion, the CnpD considers that in the current state, the texts under opinion do not meet the requirements of precision
and predictability that a legal text must meet. it considers it necessary that the texts be clarified on
the following points :

- the determination of the data controller and the possible subcontractor, or even of a responsibility

joint in the processing of background check requests;

- the purposes pursued by the data processing;

- any access by the Grand Ducal police to its own files, to other national files and to the systems

European and international information systems in the context of requests for background checks;

- the procedures for accessing and exchanging data between the Grand Ducal police and the Minister in this context and

the possible creation of new files;

- the data retention period;

- the criteria to be taken into account by the Grand Ducal police to notify a request for verification of

background;

320 Deliberation n°45/2019 of September 13, 2019, p. 30.

annual report 242 2019 cnpd

- the criteria to be taken into account by the Minister to grant or refuse a request for verification of

background;

- the entities referred to in Article 13 paragraph (3) point 4° of the draft Grand-Ducal regulation by the terms “
competent national authorities”, as well as the conditions and procedures for the transfer of data from these authorities
to the Grand-Ducal police;

- the validity periods of the various background checks;

- the criteria to be taken into account by the Grand-Ducal police within the framework of the specific authorizations granted,
where appropriate, to visitors and members of the press, as well as details of the competent authority for
issue day passes for visitors and members of the press.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on December 17, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

Annual Report

243

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Complementary opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection
relating to draft law n°6961 on 1. the creation of the National Security Authority and
2. amendment 1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of coins
and security clearances; 2) of the Penal Code.

Deliberation n°60/2019 of December 17, 2019

In accordance with article 46, paragraph 1, letter (c) of directive (eu) n°2016/680 of 27 April 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by
competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses
or execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the Framework Decision
2008/977/JaI of the Council (hereinafter referred to as “the Directive”), to which article 8 of the law of 1 August refers
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as the “Law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime”), the National Commission
for data protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CnpD”), “advises the
Chamber of Deputies, the Government and other institutions and bodies regarding legislative measures and
administrative procedures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data ".

by letter dated November 18, 2019, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to decide
concerning amendments to bill n°6961 on 1. creation of the national security authority and
2. amendment 1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and the authorizations of
security; 2) of the Penal Code.

dated July 16, 2018, the CnpD issued a first opinion on draft law no. 6961321.

moreover, in a letter dated June 8, 2016, the Prime Minister invited the National Commission to
decide on the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the procedures for processing personal data
personnel by the National Security Authority, regulations to be adopted in execution of the law of 15 June 2004 relating to
parts classification and security clearances. the CnpD had notified the said draft regulation
ducal dated July 13, 2016322.

in 2013, the Cnpd also issued an opinion on a draft grand-ducal regulation taken into
execution of article 23 of the law of June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of documents and the authorizations of
security.323

https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/20171/444-pl6961-anS.html

321 Deliberation n°444/2018 of July 16, 2018
 
322 Deliberation n°639/2016 of July 13, 2016
 
323 Deliberation n°274/2013 of June 28, 2013
 

https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2013/sre.html

https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2016/Sre.html

annual report 244 2019 cnpd

Article 28 paragraph (1) draft of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of coins and
security clearances

Article 28 paragraph (1) subparagraph 1 letter i) draft of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to classification
documents and security clearances provides that, in the context of security investigations or investigations of
subsequent security, the anS has direct access, via a computer system, to the “research” part of the bank
general police personal data. moreover, paragraph 2 of article 28 paragraph (1) provides that the anS
may apply to the Attorney General to obtain information from the “documentary” part of the
data bank.

It should be recalled that the said database was formerly governed by the Grand-Ducal Regulation of 2 October
1992 relating to the creation and operation of a database of general police names. said
regulation has been implicitly repealed since the entry into force of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of
the National Commission for Data Protection and the general data protection regime, which
raises serious questions about the legal basis of the data processing in question324.

the law therefore refers to data processing that is not expressly provided for by any legal text and some of which
key elements now fall within the administrative practice of the Grand Ducal police. such is for example the
case of the division of the database into a "research" part and a "documentary" part to which
reference is made in article 28 paragraph (1).

Article 28 paragraph (5) draft of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of coins and
security clearances

draft article 28 paragraph (5) of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of coins and
to security clearances as amended gives the CnpD the power to monitor the access provided for by the
paragraph (1) of the same article 28.

the CnpD holds this same general supervisory power already under article 8 of the law of 1 august
2018 on the organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime on the
Data protection.

Articles 24 and 28 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security
prescribe data access log files such as those provided for in Article 28
proposed paragraph (1) of the amended law of 15 June 2004. However, in order to guarantee useful and effective control
a posteriori access via the log files, it would be appropriate to set, in the amended law of 15 June

324 see on this subject the opinion of the CnpD on the central file of the Grand Ducal police with regard to data protection legislation, deliberation

n°45/2019 of September 13, 2019
https://cnpd.public.lu/fr/decisions-avis/2019/45-fichier-central-police.html

 

Annual Report

245

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

2004, the retention period of the log files at 5 years, which also corresponds to the duration of
statute of limitations for offences.

Draft article 29 of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and authorizations
security (Amendment 20)

in terms of retention period, the amendment replaces the reference to the law of 1 August 2018 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters
as well as in matters of national security, reference contained in the draft article 29 paragraph (3) of the law
amended of June 15, 2004 relating to the classification of documents and security clearances, by passing
following :

“the data relating to the security investigation are destroyed or erased in accordance with the provisions of the law
of 1 August 2018 dd/mm/yyyy on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data
of a personal nature in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security:

- within six months of the refusal decision unless the reasons for which they were collected are

still relevant ;

- within five years after the candidate has ceased his activity requiring access to classified documents. »

If the current formulation is certainly preferable to the simple reference to the law contained in article 29 projected before
the amendments under opinion, the CnpD wonders however what should be understood precisely by “reasons
for which they were collected are still valid”. indeed, if the reason for collecting the data
was a request for authorization, this no longer exists since the passage in question relates precisely to
the hypothesis of a refusal.

Draft article 31 of the amended law of 15 June 2004 relating to the classification of documents and authorizations
security (Amendment 21)

amendment 20 adds to the assessment criteria (which the anS takes into account with regard to
discretion, loyalty, reliability and integrity) the following criteria:

“n) the existence of one or more security incidents;

o) the fact of having or having had behavior likely to lead to a risk of vulnerability to blackmail or

to pressures;

325 for example offenses provided for by articles 509-1 and following of the Penal Code or those provided for by article 47 paragraph (3) of the law of August 1, 2018
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in criminal matters and in matters of security
national.

annual report 246 2019 cnpd

p) the fact of having demonstrated, in deed or word, a lack of honesty, loyalty or reliability or of having

shown to be untrustworthy. ".

the CnpD considers that the wordings are quite vague even if they find their source in part in texts
European legal systems. This imprecision can be a source of uncertainty and legal insecurity.

thus decided in esch-sur-alzette on December 17, 2019.

the National Commission for Data Protection

tin a. feedback
president

thierry lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner

Marc lemmer
Commissioner

Annual Report

247

2019 cnpd

APPENDICES

5

Notes
 

annual report 248 2019 cnpd

15, Boulevard du Jazz - L-4370 Belvaux

Telephone: +352 26 10 60-1 - Fax: +352 26 10 60-6099

www.cnpd.lu

