1/6

 File No.: PS/00120/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated August 21, 2020, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, a resolution was issued in the sanctioning procedure number
PS/00095/2020, filed against the CITY COUNCIL OF BURGOS (hereinafter, the
claimed party). In said resolution, in addition to imposing a sanction of
warning, in the Third Law Basis it is indicated:

“According to the available evidence, it is considered that the
facts denounced, that is, send the email address and the DNI of the
claimant without using the BCC option to make the shipment, supposes the violation of
the principles of “purpose limitation” and “integrity and confidentiality”
regulated in art. 5.1 b) and f) of the RGPD, as well as the proactive responsibility of the
data controller to demonstrate compliance.”

Likewise, the dispositive part of the resolution requires the following:

“SECOND: REQUIRE the respondent party so that within a period of one month
certify to this body compliance with:

 the adoption of all necessary measures so that the denounced entity
act in accordance with the principles of "purpose limitation" and
"integrity and confidentiality" of art. 5.1 b) and f) of GDPR respectively.”

SECOND: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure was notified
irrefutably on August 28, 2020 to the claimed party, granting
the period of one month for the adoption of the imposed measures, as stated
accredited in the file.

THIRD: After the expiration of the indicated term without this Agency having
received any written on the measures implemented by the claimed party, it is
proceeded to request them again on two occasions so that, within a month,
prove to this Agency that they have adopted the appropriate corrective measures, in
attention to what was agreed in the aforementioned Resolution.

These requirements were collected by the person in charge on October 8,
2020 and September 16, 2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificates that
they work in the file.

FOURTH: The respondent has not sent any response to this Agency that
certifies compliance with the imposed measures.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

FIFTH: Against the aforementioned resolution, in which the adoption of measures is required,
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not stated his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

SIXTH: On March 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.6 of the
GDPR.

SEVENTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the established rules
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the term granted
for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure and the requirements
indicated in the third antecedent were notified in accordance with the
provided in article 43 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: The respondent has not sent any response to this Agency that
certifies compliance with the imposed measures.

THIRD: The notification of the agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning was carried out in accordance with the provisions of article 43 of the LPACAP.

FOURTH: The respondent party has not submitted arguments to the agreement to initiate
this sanctioning procedure within the period indicated for it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD) recognizes each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

unfulfilled mandate

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed has failed to comply with the resolution of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
in relation to the measures imposed on him.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Proven Facts" section are considered
constituting an infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of the
article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, which provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Typification and qualification of the infraction

III

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the RGPD, which stipulates the following:

“Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority pursuant to article
58, paragraph 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following conduct:

“m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

Imputed sanction

Article 83.7 of the RGPD provides the following:
“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:
"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article."

v

Adoption of measures

This Agency agrees to impose on the controller the adoption of appropriate measures
to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to which each authority of
control may “order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
when appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period…”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the BURGOS CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P0906100C, by
an infringement of Article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.6 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF BURGOS, with NIF P0906100C, to
that within a month proves before this body the adoption of all the
measures necessary for this City Council to act in accordance with the
principles of "purpose limitation" and "integrity and confidentiality" of art. 5.1 b)
and f) of RGPD respectively, in relation to the infraction sanctioned in the
procedure PS/00095/2020.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the BURGOS CITY COUNCIL.

FOURTH:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

