ANNUAL REPORT 

OF THE OFFICE OF THE DATA 

PROTECTION OMBUDSMAN 2023

ANNUAL REPORT 

OF THE OFFICE OF THE DATA 

PROTECTION OMBUDSMAN 2023

Contents 

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman safeguards  
the rights and freedoms of individuals with regard to  
the processing of personal data ........................................................................................... 4 

Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus:  
Data protection work in a changing digital environment ..................................................... 6 

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa:  
Consolidated positions, clarifications to the use of personal identity codes,  
and guidelines on children’s data protection  ....................................................................... 9 

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman Annina Hautala:  
Data protection touches all parts of society ...................................................................... 12 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s year 2023 in figures ................................... 14 

Focus areas of data protection activities ........................................................................... 16 

Organisational reform, increasing number of cases  
and development of services .................................................................................. 16 
Number of personal data breach notifications keeps growing ............................. 19 
Processing of cross-border cases  ......................................................................... 21 
Support for controllers and DPOs ........................................................................... 23 
International transfers of data................................................................................. 24 

Supervision and cooperation .............................................................................................. 26 

Sanctions Board: Administrative fines for violations  
of data protection legislation .................................................................................. 26 
Auditing activities ..................................................................................................... 28 

Personnel and finances ....................................................................................................... 29 

Matters instituted and processed in 2021–2023 .............................................................. 30 

3

The Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman 
safeguards the rights 
and freedoms of 
individuals with regard 
to the processing of 
personal data

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
is  an  autonomous  and  independent  authority 
that supervises compliance with data protection 
legislation  and  other  statutes  governing  the 
processing of personal data. 

for violations of the General Data Protection 
Regulation  (GDPR).  The  Data  Protection 
Ombudsman cooperates with the data protection 
authorities of other countries and represents 
Finland on the European Data Protection Board.

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
promotes awareness of the rights, duties and 
opportunities related to the processing of personal 
data. The duties of the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman include conducting investigations and 
inspections, issuing statements on legislative and 
administrative reforms and imposing sanctions 

In 2023, Anu Talus served as Data Protection 
Ombudsman, with Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa and 
Annina  Hautala  as  Deputy  Data  Protection 
Ombudsmen. The Data Protection Ombudsman 
and  her  deputies  are  independent  in  the 
performance of their duties. They are appointed 
for a five-year term by the government.

4

Societal objectives of the Office of 
the Data Protection Ombudsman 
• We promote and safeguard the opportunities  

of people, companies and communities  
in a digitalising society.

• Our European cooperation is a resource  

for Finnish data protection.

• We safeguard the implementation of  

data protection in administrative reform  
and digitalisation projects.

• We ensure that potential data protection impact  

is taken comprehensively into account  
in law drafting.

Vision

The Office of the Data Protection 

Ombudsman is an active proponent for 
responsibility in the digital environment

5

Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus: 
Data protection work 
in a changing digital 
environment

The past year was eventful: the digital operating 
environment 
is  constantly  changing,  the 
organisation of the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman has evolved, and the supervisory 
authorities issued several significant decisions 
that shape the digital market.

The  General  Data  Protection  Regulation 
celebrated its 5th anniversary last year. Over 
the past five years, the importance of the digital 
operating environment has increased further 
and the amount of regulation has multiplied. My 
election as Chair of the European Data Protection 
Board (EDPB) in May 2023 came at a time when 
many of the provisions of the Commission’s 
digital and data regulations were either finalised 
in Brussels or implemented domestically.

New digital regulation will be built on the GDPR. 
Although the starting point may seem simple, 
there is a lot of overlapping regulation. Therefore, 
cooperation between authorities is all the more 
important. In addition to the new digital projects, 
the Commission presented its proposal for a 
provision supplementing the GDPR with the aim of 
streamlining cooperation between authorities in 
cross-border matters between EU Member States.

The year was also marked by new legislative 
projects nationally. The Data Protection Act 
was amended by adding a provision on so-
called inactivity complaints. If the Office of 
the  Data  Protection  Ombudsman  does  not 
notify about the progress of the complaint 
within three months, the person may appeal 
to the Administrative Court. At the same time, 
a  provision  was  introduced  into  the  Data 
Protection Act that enables the referendaries 
of the Office to resolve cases on which there 
already is established policy. The amendments 
entered into force at the beginning of 2024.

The number of new cases, which had remained 
stable for three years, started to rise again 
sharply. Over 2,000 more cases were initiated 
during the year than in the previous year, a total 
of 13,179 cases. Almost as many cases were 
resolved as initiated. This is a testament to 
the tireless work of our specialists. However, 
it is clear that as tasks increase due to new 
legislation and matters become more complex 
and difficult, additional resources will be needed 
to carry out statutory tasks.

6

The organisational structure of the Office of the 
Data Protection Ombudsman was renewed in 
April 2023. Changes were made, for example, 
to units and the responsibilities of ombudsmen. 
New supervisor positions and expert positions 
requiring long experience were also created. In an 
expert organisation, it is important to recognise the 
importance of deepening and broadening expertise.

The Office also quite successfully introduced a 
new case management system. The new system 
improves work efficiency, promotes knowledge-
based management and creates new kinds of 
opportunities to develop operations based on more 
accurate statistical data than before.

In  addition  to  adopting  new  legislation  and 
developing  the  organisation,  day-to-day  data 
protection and supervision work was at the core 
of the operations. For example, we issued 44 
legislative opinions during the past year. In the 
election year, the Government’s legislative work 
began in earnest in the autumn.

A  number  of  important  decisions  were  also 
made  during  the  year.  In  some  decisions,  an 
administrative fine was imposed on the controller, 
while in others, the controller was ordered to rectify 
its actions. During the year, administrative fines 
were imposed on three controllers. In two cases, 
a fine was imposed for non-compliance with a 
previous order of the Data Protection Ombudsman.

The sanctions board of the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman also dealt with other 
important matters, for example, a so-called urgent 
procedure was used in a decision concerning 
taxi service Yango that temporarily banned data 
transfers to Russia. Processing of the case has 
since continued in cooperation with the Dutch and 
Norwegian supervisory authorities.

During the year, the Administrative Court and the 
Supreme Administrative Court issued several 
decisions  concerning  data  protection,  which 
confirmed the Data Protection Ombudsman’s 
policy on the application of the GDPR.

European cooperation has become a part of the 
authority’s statutory tasks since the GDPR became 
applicable. The most significant EU-level decision 
of the year is probably the Commission’s so-called 
adequacy decision on the level of data protection 
in the United States. The EDPB issued a positive 
opinion to the European Commission on the new 
EU-US data protection framework, although it 
expressed some concerns about the whole.

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
has also contributed to the dispute resolution 
decisions of the European Data Protection Board. 
Last year, following the EDPB’s decision, a fine 
of 1.2 billion euros was imposed on Meta for 
data transfers to the United States, and a fine 
of 345 million euros on TikTok for breaches of 
children’s privacy. In addition, the EDPB adopted 
an urgent binding decision against Meta, in which 
it considered that Meta had processed personal 
data for the purpose of targeting advertising to 
individuals without an appropriate legal basis.

March also saw the launch of the EDPB’s second 
coordinated enforcement action, which, on the 
initiative of the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman,  focused  on  the  designation 
and  position  of  Data  Protection  Officers  in 
organisations. In the spring, the EDPB published 
a guide for SMEs, the Finnish translation of which 
will be available during 2024. The position of 
SMEs will also be on the agenda of the EDPB’s 
next strategy, which was adopted in spring 2024. 
The GDPR4CHLDRN – Ensuring data protection in 
hobbies project, which promotes children’s data 

7

protection and is funded by the Commission, 
proceeded in cooperation with TIEKE Finnish 
Information  Society  Development  Centre, 
coordinated by the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman.

The  discussion  about  artificial  intelligence 
continued intensively over the past year and 
will continue to be highly relevant in 2024. The 
EDPB set up a working group on ChatGPT, and 
decisions by national supervisory authorities 
on artificial intelligence can be expected during 
2024. A political agreement has been reached 
on the Artificial Intelligence Act, and national 
supervisory authorities will play an important role 
in its application, regardless of which authority 
supervises the AI Act.

Anu Talus   

Data Protection Ombudsman

8

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman  
Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa:  
Consolidated 
positions, 
clarifications to 
the use of personal 
identity codes, 
and guidelines 
on children’s data 
protection 

The reform of the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman’s organisation entailed changes to 
the Office’s units and the responsibilities of the 
Ombudsmen. At the beginning of April 2023, I 
changed from heading the public-sector customer 
service team to managing the private-sector 
guidance and supervision unit. 

In the private sector, financial sector matters were 
the largest group in terms of matters instituted 
with the Office. We were kept particularly busy 
with personal data breach notifications, matters 
involving the right of access, requests for the 
erasure of data, and cases related to payment 
default entries. 

9

An administrative fine was imposed in the financial 
sector in 2023 for unfounded payment default 
entries made on the basis of judgments in civil 
cases. The company had not erased the data from 
its credit information register despite an order 
issued in 2021. 

One of the key positions adopted by the Data 
Protection  Ombudsman  in  the  private  sector 
involved the lawfulness of purchase data storage 
times in the retail sector. The storage of purchase 
data for the whole duration of loyalty programme 
membership, in practice often for decades, cannot 
be considered to comply with data protection 
legislation. If the processing of personal data is 
an essential part of a company’s business, it must 
strictly observe the principles of processing of 
personal data, such as data minimisation and 
determining storage periods. This will only increase 
in importance in our data-driven economy and will 
be reflected in the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman’s decisions going forward.

As  a  rule,  the  Office  of  the  Data  Protection 
Ombudsman’s  decisions  were  upheld  by  the 
administrative courts. In September, the Supreme 
Administrative Court issued its decision on the 
administrative fine imposed on Posti in the spring 
of 2020. It was the first Sanctions Board decision 
to be taken to the Supreme Administrative Court. 
The Court enforced the administrative fine, which 
had been imposed for shortcomings in informing 
people who had submitted a notification of change 
of address. It is noteworthy that, in its decision, the 
Supreme Administrative Court confirmed that the 
supervisory authority had been within its rights in 
imposing the administrative fine before exercising 
its other corrective powers, such as issuing an 
order or reprimand. 

In December, the Administrative Court of Eastern 
Finland issued a decision in the “log data case”. 
The decision was based on a preliminary ruling 
issued by the European Court of Justice. In the 
main, the Administrative Court decision upheld 
the  Deputy  Data  Protection  Ombudsman’s 
position and thus the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman’s established interpretation of the 
disclosure of user log data. According to the 
Administrative  Court  decision,  a  bank  is  not 
obliged to disclose information on the bank’s 
employees who had accessed the customer’s 
data. However, the bank is required to disclose 
the precise times when the customer data was 
accessed from the user logs. The decision has 
been appealed, so we will wait for the Supreme 
Administrative Court’s decision on the matter. 

The processing of personal identity codes was 
clarified by law. In December, Parliament approved 
amendments to the Data Protection Act and the 
Act on the Processing of Personal Data in Criminal 
Matters  and  in  Connection  with  Maintaining 
National Security. The provisions on the processing 
of personal identity codes were also clarified in 
this connection. The amendment is intended to 
highlight the original purpose of the personal 
identity code as a means of individualisation, that 
is, telling people apart from each other. The law 
was clarified with an amendment that entered 
into force at the beginning of 2024 and states 
that a person may not be identified with their 
personal identity code alone or with a combination 
of their name and personal identity code. The 
use of personal identity codes for identifying 
individuals in addition to their original purpose 
of telling specific individuals apart has become 
a problem. It is to be hoped that the amendment 
will clarify practices on the ground. 

10

In  June,  the  Supreme  Administrative  Court 
issued a decision on processing the personal 
identity  codes  of  children.  The  Supreme 
Administrative Court upheld the Deputy Data 
Protection Ombudsman’s position, according to 
which regularly collecting the personal identity 
codes of the children of all tenants and everyone 
applying for a rental home by property managers 
and lessors is not necessary under the General 
Data Protection Regulation. Even though the 
law permits the processing of personal identity 
codes in renting, such processing must always 
be necessary. 

Children’s data protection was the focus of our 
operations in 2023, which was reflected in the 
continuation of the GDPR4CHLDRN – Ensuring 
data protection in hobbies project, among other 
things.  The  project  is  a  two-year  EU-funded 
project  by  the  Office  of  the  Data  Protection 
Ombudsman and TIEKE Finnish Information 
Society Development Centre intended to improve 
the  practical  data  protection  knowledge  of 
children and young people aged 13–17, their 
parents, and associations that organise hobby 
activities. Among other things, the project will 
produce a ”digital toolkit” to help associations 
resolve issues related to compliance with data 
protection legislation. The project will conclude 
in late 2024.

Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa 

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman

11

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman  
Annina Hautala:  
Data protection 
touches all parts  
of society

The year 2023 was my first full year as Deputy 
Data Protection Ombudsman. It was another 
interesting and busy year on the data protection 
front. As I say in the title of this piece, data 
protection cross-cuts society and is important 
to every one of us. Its significance is perhaps 
even  greater  in  public  administration,  since 
people often do not have a say in whether public 
authorities process their data or not. Special 
categories  of  personal  data,  such  as  health 
information, are also widely processed by the 
public administration. 

The public-sector guidance and supervision unit 
was placed under my responsibility in the Office of 
the Data Protection Ombudsman’s organisational 
reform  in  April  2023.  The  organisational 
reform merged the data protection guidance 
and enforcement of the security and judicial 
administration sector with that of other sectors 
of the public administration. With this change, 
we are able to build a more comprehensive 
picture of the state of data protection in the 

public administration and of where to focus 
enforcement. The aim is to allocate our resources 
to the enforcement and guidance actions that 
have  the  most  impact  and  thus  ensure  the 
realisation of data protection for everyone as 
required by law. 

As in previous years, social welfare and health 
care was the largest sector in terms of matters 
instituted with the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman in 2023. The most common matters 
instituted with the Office, both in social welfare 
and healthcare and in other public sectors, were 
personal data breach notifications and matters 
involving the exercise of the rights of the data 
subject, such as requests concerning the right 
of access and right to erasure. The launch of 
the new wellbeing services counties and the 
amendment to the Act on the Processing of Client 
Data in Healthcare and Social Welfare, which 
entered into force at the start of 2024, were also 
reflected in our work in the social welfare and 
healthcare sector. 

12

In addition to the organisational reform, the Office 
of the Data Protection Ombudsman developed 
its practices and processes in order to improve 
the efficiency of its operations. For example, the 
processing of matters involving social welfare 
and healthcare was improved by introducing a 
screening procedure for cases involving the rights 
of individuals. We also allocated more human 
resources to enforcement work in the sector. 

The year was also full of reform in the education 
and early childhood education sector. The Office 
of  the  Data  Protection  Ombudsman  issued 
several  reminders  about  data  protection  to 
the parties responsible for the preparation and 
implementation of the reforms. The subjects of 
the reforms included the processing of personal 
data in basic education and the organisation 
of student welfare. Several legislative projects 
related to the work of the security authorities 
were also initiated in 2023, and the Office of 
the Data Protection Ombudsman supported the 
preparation of these projects from the perspective 
of data protection.

Our enforcement activities in 2023 also included 
planned audits of controllers. The goal of such 
audits is to identify development needs before 
risks  involving  personal  data  are  realised. 
At the same time, they serve to increase the 
organisations’ knowledge and awareness of data 
protection. Our Office was also the subject of an 
inspection as part of the evaluation of Schengen 
states’ compliance with EU law. Last year, it was 
Finland’s turn for this regular inspection.

The considerable number of “snooping” cases 
found by our enforcement measures and through 
pre-trial investigation authorities’ and prosecutors’ 

requests for statements is noteworthy. Some of 
these cases have been extensive and protracted. 
The pre-trial investigation authority or prosecutor 
is required to request a statement from the Data 
Protection Ombudsman on matters involving a 
data protection offence, secrecy offence, unlawful 
access to an information system or violation of 
the secrecy of communications. The number 
of such requests increased from 37 in 2022 to 
54 in 2023.

Due to the above-mentioned observations, the 
monitoring of processing in the operations of 
controllers was adopted as a special theme for the 
2024 audit plan. I cannot overstate the importance 
of the active self-monitoring of processing by the 
controller in addition to looking after the security 
of data files and information systems, access 
rights management, and instructing users.

Annina Hautala 

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman

13

Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman’s 
year 2023 in figures

14

15

Focus areas of data 
protection activities

Organisational reform, increasing number of 
cases and development of services

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman updated 
its organisation structure and rules of procedure in 
April 2023. The updates were made in response to 
needs identified in the Office’s strategy work in the 
previous year. 

been centralised in the administrative unit. The 
Office’s IT specialists, coordination of international 
matters,  communications staff, senior specialist 
and data protection officer work in the management 
support and core services unit.

Changes were made to the Office’s units and the 
responsibilities  of  the  Ombudsmen.  The  new 
organisation consists of a private-sector guidance and 
supervision unit, public-sector guidance and supervision 
unit, administrative unit, and management support 
and core services unit. The Office’s administrative, 
information management and registry services have 

The  Deputy  Data  Protection  Ombudsmen  are 
responsible for the monitoring of the private and 
public sectors. The Data Protection Ombudsman’s 
responsibilities include the supervisory authority’s 
general policies, European cross-border cooperation, 
and liaising with the European Data Protection Board 
(EDPB).

16

After fairly stable volumes in recent years, the 
number of cases instituted with the Office of 
the Data Protection Ombudsman grew clearly in 
2023, with a total of 13,179 cases instituted with 
the Office. This was approximately 2,000 cases 
more than in the previous year. The number of 
cases resolved also increased, with 13,059 cases 
closed in 2023. 

Personal data breach notifications were the most 
common type of cases instituted with the Office, 
accounting for 52 per cent of all cases instituted. 
The number of cross-border EU cases also grew.

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
has  been  systematically  clearing  its  case 
backlog since 2020. At the end of 2023, there 
were  approximately  880  unresolved  cases 
instituted in 2018–2021 that had been pending 
for more than two years. Cross-border cases 
led by the supervisory authority of another EEA 
state constitute a significant part of these older 
unresolved cases.

17

Flow of operations improved through system updates 

The personal data breach notification screening 
procedure  adopted  in  2022  has  made  the 
processing of the notifications significantly more 
efficient. The screening looks at questions such as 
whether the case needs to be taken further with 
the controller and whether the breach requires 
official action. 

The screening of cases concerning the rights 
of the data subject continued in matters related 
to the social welfare and healthcare sector. The 
Office is considering applying the model to other 
sectors as well.

In December 2023, Parliament passed amendments 
to the Data Protection Act and the Act on the 
Processing of Personal Data in Criminal Matters and 
in Connection with Maintaining National Security 
to bring them into line with EU data protection 
legislation. From the beginning of 2024, the Office 
of the Data Protection Ombudsman is required 
to resolve a complaint or give the complainant 
an estimate of when a decision will be issued 
within three months of the matter’s institution. 
People can appeal to the Administrative Court if 
the Data Protection Ombudsman does not issue a 
decision or provide an estimate of the processing 
time within this time limit.

The improvement of information management 
has been defined as the Office’s key goal for the 
next few years. In the autumn of 2023, the Office 
adopted a joint case management system for 
agencies in the judicial administration, made a 
comprehensive  overhaul  of  the  organisation’s 
information management guidelines, and developed 
the  Office’s  information  management  model. 
The new case management system makes the 
processing of cases more efficient and improves 
knowledge-based management. 

At  the  end  of  the  year,  the  Office  of  the  Data 
Protection Ombudsman adopted a secure form 
service provided the Government ICT Centre Valtori. 
Organisations can use the forms to file personal 
data  breach  notifications,  declare  the  contact 
details of their data protection officers, and request 
prior consultations. Private individuals can use the 
forms to request an order regarding the exercise 
of their data protection rights or report faults 
they have noticed in the processing or personal 
data. Sent forms can be saved as PDF files for 
the customer’s own use. With the adoption of the 
secure form service, the forms can now be used 
to send confidential and sensitive information to 
the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. 

The  Office’s  internal  procedures  were  also 
developed in order to improve the efficiency of 
case processing. Screening procedures in matters 
concerning the rights of the data subject and the 
processing of personal data breach notifications 
were established and refined. 

18

Number of personal data breach notifications 
keeps growing

Personal data breach notifications constitute the 
largest single category of cases instituted with the 
Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. If a 
personal data breach can cause a risk to the people 
affected by it, the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman must be notified. If necessary, the 
Office can order an organisation to notify the person 
concerned of the breach.

A total of 6,894 data breach notifications were 
filed with the Office during the year, representing 
an increase of more than 1,400 from the previous 
year. The numbers of reported data breaches have 
increased annually and constituted as much as 52 
per cent of cases instituted. This number is in line 
with our European reference countries. 

The growth is probably partly due to the general 
increase in digitalisation and advancements in 
information  technology.  Public  awareness  of 
the notification duty concerning personal data 
breaches has also increased steadily. The most 
notifications are received from regulated sectors, 
such as social welfare and health care, the financial 
sector and the telecommunications sector. 

In the autumn, the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman reminded organisations that they 
should assess the seriousness of personal data 
breaches from the points of view of the data 
subjects concerned. Complying with the GDPR’s 
requirements for handling personal data breaches 
requires organisations to assess the seriousness of 
the consequences to the data subjects instead of 
the consequences to the controller. The controller 
should also consider carefully what measures it 
could take to mitigate the negative consequences 
to individuals. 

The Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman 
received 6,894 
personal data breach 
notifications in 2023. 

If a controller submits a preliminary notification 
of a personal data breach to the Office, it should 
remember to supplement the notification later on 
its own initiative. Preliminary notifications which 
organisations have not supplemented on their own 
initiative cause a great amount of investigation work 
to the Office. A personal data breach notification 
must be made without undue delay and no later 
than in 72 hours of detecting the breach. If the 
notification is delayed, a justified explanation of 
the reason must be made to the Office. 

Many personal data breaches could be prevented 
with adequate technical safeguards, appropriate 
organisational procedures and data protection 
expertise. Old systems that have not been updated, 
and especially shortcomings in data security, 
expose organisations to personal data breaches. 
System vulnerabilities are also being exploited 
more quickly than before. Such breaches often 
also concern personal data stored in the system. 

19

Office 365 data leaks remain common. They are 
often caused by human error when someone 
opens a link in an email and enters their password 
or credentials. The most serious personal data 
breaches involving email follow the storage of 
material containing large amounts of personal 
data,  such  as  personal  identity  codes,  job 
applications  or  sick  leave  certificates,  in  an 
email inbox.

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
made some improvements in 2023 to the way 
in which personal data breach notifications are 
submitted. The adoption of Valtori’s secure form 
service in the autumn lets organisations save 
submitted forms directly in the service. Saving 
the notification helps with documenting data 
breaches and demonstrating compliance with 
the organisation’s accountability obligation.

20

Processing of cross-border cases

Cross-border processing’ means the processing 
of personal data
•  performed in offices located in more than 
one Member State or by a controller or 
processor established in more than one 
Member State; or

•  performed in the EU in the controller’s 
or processor’s only office, but the 
processing has a significant impact on 
data subjects in more than one Member 
State. 

When the processing of personal data crosses 
borders, the data protection authorities of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) monitor the 
processing of personal data in cooperation. A ‘lead 
supervisory authority’ is appointed for the case 
and works together with the other supervisory 
authorities participating in the processing of the 
matter. The purpose of the cooperation procedure 
is to achieve a binding common decision by the 
supervisory authorities, as well as to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR across the 
EEA. The European Data Protection Board has a 
register of joint decisions taken by data protection 
authorities on its website.

During the year, the data protection authorities 
considered cases involving major social media 
companies in cross-border cooperation. Many 
large  social  media  companies  have  their
 
European headquarters in Ireland, so the Irish 
data protection authority is the lead supervisory 
authority in these cases. All participating data 
protection authorities from the EEA, including 
the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, 
are involved in the decision-making. 

In 2023, the Office of 
the Data Protection 
Ombudsman was 

designated as the lead 
supervisory authority in 6 
cases and as a supervisory 

authority concerned  

in 147 cases.

In April, the European Data Protection Board 
issued a binding dispute-resolution decision 
concerning the lawfulness of Meta’s transfers 
of data to the United States in the Facebook 
service. The EEA data protection authorities that 
participated in the case, including the Office of 
the Data Protection Ombudsman, concurred 
with Ireland’s views on Meta’s violations and 
found that Meta’s transfers of data had been in 
violation of the GDPR from July 2020. Following 
the EDPB’s decision, the Irish data protection 
authority imposed an administrative fine of EUR 
1.2 billion on Meta and ordered Meta to suspend 
the transfer of European users’ personal data 
to the US. Meta was also ordered to bring the 
transfers of data into compliance with the GDPR 
within six months. 

In August, the EDPB issued a decision on the 
processing of children’s personal data in TikTok, 
following a dispute resolution procedure. Based 

21

on  the  binding  decision,  Ireland  imposed  an 
administrative fine of EUR 345 million on TikTok 
for several violations in the processing of children’s 
personal data and ordered the company to stop 
using misleading formatting solutions that violate 
the GDPR. Among other things, the violations 
concerned the application’s default settings that 
made children’s accounts public by default. 

Based on a decision made by the EDPB in October, 
Ireland ordered Meta to stop the processing of 
personal  data  for  behaviour-based  targeted 
advertising based on the controller’s legitimate 
interest or the performance of an agreement. The 
decision was made with the urgent procedure 
after the Norwegian data protection authority 
had asked the EDPB to decide on EEA-wide action 
concerning Meta. 

In  September  2023,  the  Finnish,  Dutch  and 
Norwegian data protection authorities agreed 
on the next steps in investigating the Yango taxi 
service’s (Yandex LLC and Ridetech International 
B.V.) transfers of data to Russia. The lawfulness of 
Yango’s actions will be assessed and decided in a 
cross-border procedure, in which the Netherlands 
serves as the lead supervisory authority and 
cooperates with the Finnish and Norwegian data 
protection authorities. The Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman does not have the power 
to make a final decision concerning Yango, which 
can only be issued by the Dutch data protection 
authority. 

In  2023,  the  Office  of  the  Data  Protection 
Ombudsman issued one cross-border decision 
within the EU as a lead supervisory authority. 
The accommodation service Forenom Oy was 
reprimanded  for  inadequate  safeguards  and 
ordered to shorten the storage period of customer 
data. An attacker had used an SQL injection to 
obtain access to Forenom’s customer self-service 
portal and ERP system through an API vulnerability, 
giving the attacker access to a database containing 
the data of tens of thousands of customers. 

22

The Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman 

issued a total of two 

objections to draft decisions 

by leading supervisory 

authorities in cross-border 

cases during the year.

In April, the Norwegian data protection authority 
imposed an administrative fine of NOK 10 million 
(approximately EUR 900,000) to the SATS gym 
chain for a variety of data protection violations. In 
particular, the violations concerned the fulfilment of 
the rights of the data subject, informing customers, 
and the lack of a basis for processing personal data. 
The gym chain operates in Norway, Finland, Sweden 
and Denmark, so the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman participated in the investigation. 

During the year, the Office submitted two objections to 
draft decisions made by lead supervisory authorities. 
The Office also influenced the contents of draft 
decisions in several cases. 

In  July,  the  European  Commission  issued  a 
legislative  proposal  for  the  harmonisation  of 
administrative procedures in cross-border cases 
within the EU. The new regulation aims to simplify 
and expedite the processing of cross-border cases 
and to promote cooperation between supervisory 
authorities from the first stages of the process. 
The Commission issued the legislative proposal on 
the basis of an initiative introduced by the EDPB in 
the autumn of 2022. In September, the EDPB and 
the European Data Protection Supervisor issued a 
joint statement calling for the rapid adoption of the 
regulation. On the national level, the Office of the 
Data Protection Ombudsman also gave its opinion 
on the Commission’s proposal to the Ministry of 
Justice and to Parliament.

Support for controllers and DPOs

Study of the position and 
appointment of DPOs

Together  with  25  European  data  protection 
authorities,  the  Office  of  the  Data  Protection 
Ombudsman  participated  in  a  joint  measure 
coordinated by the EDPB for investigating the 
designation and status of data protection officers in 
organisations in a variety of industries and sectors. 
DPOs were chosen as the subject of the measure 
on the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s 
initiative. 

The measure was launched with a joint survey 
for organisations, which the Office of the Data 
Protection  Ombudsman  sent  to  50  Finnish 
organisations in May 2023. Seven government 
agencies, 20 municipalities, six wellbeing services 
counties,  six  financial  service  providers,  three 
telecommunications operators and eight platform 
service providers were selected for the study. The 
survey was taken by more than 17,000 organisations 
across Europe.

The EDPB published a report of the study in January 
2024. Most of the respondents felt that they had 
clearly defined duties and the competence required 
for their work, but many DPOs still face challenges 
in their duties. The report describes identified 
development needs and issues recommendations 
for reinforcing the status of DPOs. The challenges 
reported were related to matters such as a lack 
of resources, the independence of the DPO, and 
reporting to senior management. The survey’s 
national results are available in an annex to the 
report.

The supervisory authorities will decide on follow-
up measures required at the national level based 
on the study’s findings. These follow-up measures 
will be implemented in Finland in 2024. 

GDPR4CHLDRN project improves 
data protection awareness in  
hobby activities for children  
and young people

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s and 
TIEKE Finnish Information Society Development 
Centre’s two-year, EU-funded project GDPR4CHLDRN 
– Ensuring data protection in hobbies continued in 
2023. The project is funded by the Citizens, Equality, 
Rights and Values EU programme. The project’s 
stakeholder partners are the Guides and Scouts 
of Finland, the Football Association of Finland, and 
the Finnish Olympic Committee.

The project is aimed at improving the data protection 
competence of children and young people aged 
13–17, their parents and clubs and associations 
that organise hobby and leisure activities for them. 
The goal is that, in future, clubs and associations 
will be able to use the materials produced in the 
project to resolve issues related to compliance 
with data protection legislation in their activities. 

The  project  will  create  a  digital  toolkit  for 
associations, containing practical materials for 
various audiences, such as guides, checklists, and 
tests for charting one’s knowledge. These materials 
promote awareness of data protection and the 
processing of personal data among children and 
young people and their parents. Development of 
the materials continued with the different target 
groups during the year. The project published 5 
newsletters and 14 expert articles and participated 
in the Media Literacy Week.

In 2024, the project will continue with piloting of 
the materials. Training and webinars about data 
protection were held for association employees in 
the spring, and the toolkit will be rolled out in stages 
over the summer. The project will conclude in the 
autumn of 2024.

23

International transfers of data

When personal data is transferred outside the 
European Economic Area or to an international 
organisation, the level of protection for personal 
data may not correspond to the requirements of 
the EU General Data Protection Regulation. For 
this reason, a number of bases for transferring 
personal data have been specified in the GDPR, 
which can be used to transfer personal data out 
of the EEA. The Act on the Processing of Personal 
Data in Criminal Matters and in Connection with 
Maintaining National Security also has provisions 
on international transfers of data. Before starting 
the transfer of personal data, the controller or 
processor must verify on a case-by-case basis 
whether an adequate level of data protection is 
guaranteed for the personal data being transferred. 

The transfer of personal data to the United States 
was made easier in July 2023, when the European 
Commission adopted an adequacy decision on 
the level of data protection in the United States. 
The new Data Privacy Framework between the 
EU and the United States replaced the earlier 
Privacy Shield arrangement, which was nullified 
by the Court of Justice of the EU’s Schrems II 
judgment (C-311/18) in 2020. 

In  March,  the  EDPB  issued  its  statement  on 
the draft adequacy decision, recognising major 
improvements but also raising certain concerns. 
The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
actively influenced the contents of the statement. 
The  EDPB  statement  plays  a  key  role  in  the 
Commission’s evaluation of the adequacy of 
data protection in a third country.

The transfer of personal 
data to the United 
States was made easier 
in July 2023, when the 
European Commission 
adopted an adequacy 
decision on the level of 
data protection in the 
United States.

An adequacy decision permits the transfer of data 
without additional safeguards from the EU and 
EEA to US companies that are committed to the 
Data Privacy Framework’s requirements. Data can 
only be transferred to certified organisations listed 
in the Data Privacy Framework list maintained by 
the US Department of Commerce. Transfers of 
data between public-sector organisations cannot 
be based on an adequacy decision. 

24

The guidelines on international transfers of data 
were supplemented in 2023. In the spring, the EDPB 
published the final version of the guideline on the 
interplay between the application of Article 3 of the 
GDPR and the provisions on international transfers 
of data. The guideline clarifies the definition of 
international transfers and helps organisations 
recognise them. 

The EDPB also published a final guideline on 
certification as a tool for transfers. In June, the 
EDPB published recommendations on Controller 
Binding Corporate Rules (BCR-C). In the summer of 
2023, the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
also  issued  a  decision  on  an  administrative 
arrangement  between  the  Finnish  Patent  and 
Registration Office and the US Public Companies 
Accounting Oversight Board.

The  EDPB  has  drawn  up  info  materials  for 
controllers  about  the  EU–U.S.  Data  Privacy 
Framework. In late 2023, the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman published an online FAQ 
of the adequacy decision’s practical impact. 

In January 2023, the EDPB published a report 
of the first joint measure by the European data 
protection authorities, which examined the use 
of cloud services in the public sector. The Office 
of the Data Protection Ombudsman contributed 
to the report, which issued recommendations 
concerning the use of cloud-based products and 
services to public-sector organisations. The annex 
to the report also described measures related to 
cloud services taken by data protection authorities 
to date. 

The EDPB’s binding decision of April 2023, referred 
to above, commented on the lawfulness of Meta’s 
transfers of data to the United States. The decision 
found that all transfers of data from July 2020 
had violated the GDPR, since the company had 
continued transferring personal data to the United 
States after the CJEU’s Schrems II judgment 
(C-311/18)  of  July  2020  without  appropriate 
safeguards. 

25

Supervision and 
cooperation

Sanctions Board: Administrative fines for 
violations of data protection legislation

The sanctions board of the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman is tasked with matters 
involving the imposition of administrative fines 
under the General Data Protection Regulation on 
controllers or processors. The Sanctions Board 
is made up of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
and two Deputy Data Protection Ombudsmen. 
The Board is chaired by the Data Protection 
Ombudsman. In 2020–2023, the Sanctions 
Board has imposed a total of 20 administrative 
fines for violations of the GDPR.

Administrative fines are one of the corrective 
powers  available  to  the  Office  of  the  Data 
Protection Ombudsman. An administrative fine 
must be dissuasive, effective and proportionate. 
An  administrative  fine  can  be  imposed  in 
addition or instead of other corrective measures 
and  is  limited  to  a  maximum  of  4%  of  the 

company’s turnover or EUR 20 million. At present, 
administrative fines cannot be imposed on public 
organisations, such as the central government 
and  state-owned  companies,  municipalities 
or  parishes.  Extending  the  application  of 
administrative fines to the public sector has been 
recorded as a goal in the current Government 
Programme. Administrative fines can already be 
imposed on public-sector entities in the other 
Nordic countries. 

Administrative fines were imposed on three 
organisations  in  2023.  Fines  were  imposed 
for non-compliance with the Data Protection 
Ombudsman’s prior order, violations concerning 
recorded  phone  calls,  and  shortcomings  in 
fulfilling the data subject’s right of access. The 
administrative fines ranged from 1,600 to 440,000 
euros.

26

In 2023, the Sanctions Board imposed administrative fines 
on three organisations for violations of data protection 
legislation.

•  Suomen Asiakastieto Oy was ordered to pay an administrative fine of 
440,000 euros, as the company had not erased unfounded payment 
default entries made in its credit information register due to faulty 
practices despite being ordered to by the Data Protection Ombudsman. 
Data based on judgments in civil matters should not have been saved 
as payment default entries. In November 2021, the Data Protection 
Ombudsman had ordered the company to correct its practices regarding 
the registration of payment default entries and to erase all incorrect 
payment default entries made due to those practices.

•  Suomen Yritysrekisteri, a company maintaining a corporate directory, 
was ordered to pay an administrative fine of 23,000 euros because it 
had not delivered phone call recordings to people who had requested 
them according to data protection provisions. The compilations of 
call recordings delivered by the company did not meet the GDPR’s 
requirements on copies that would correspond to the contents of the 
original call. In addition, the company had ignored the Deputy Data 
Protection Ombudsman’s earlier order to bring their operations into 
compliance with the law. The company should have offered another 
method of obtaining the recordings in addition to listening to them. 
•  The Sanctions Board ordered a psychotherapy provider to pay an 

administrative fine of 1,600 euros due to shortcomings in fulfilling the 
data subject’s right of access. A customer of the psychotherapy provider 
had made several requests to access their data between 2017 and 2019. 
The psychotherapy company had not provided the data to the customer 
or given a reason for why it was unable to deliver the data within the 
time limits specified by the GDPR. 

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s 
Sanctions  Board  also  processes  matters 
concerning the prohibition of processing. In the 
autumn of 2023, the Sanctions Board processed 
the interim suspension order issued to Yandex LLC 

and Ridetech International B.V. and evaluated the 
possibility of transferring the case to the EDPB. 
In this case, the Board found that a cross-border 
procedure with the Netherlands and Norway was 
the best option for resolving the matter. 

27

Auditing activities

The audits carried out by the Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman are based on identified 
risks related to the processing of personal data 
and on the supervision and auditing obligations 
arising  from  EU  law  and  national  special 
legislation. 

The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
had drawn up an advance plan for audits to be 
carried out in 2023. Restrictions of the data 
subject’s right of access and the possibilities 
of data subjects to monitor the processing of 
their own personal data were special themes in 
the audits for this year. The audits thus focused 
on security authorities which limit the right of 
access, such as for the purpose of safeguarding 
the integrity of investigations. 

The Office conducted 11 audits according to the 
audit plan in 2023. The audits did not give cause 
to exercise the Ombudsman’s corrective powers, 
but guidance and recommendations were given 
to controllers as a result of observations made 
in the inspections. 

The Office of the Data 
Protection Ombudsman 
conducted 11 audits  

in 2023.

The  European  Commission  conducted  an 
evaluation of the Schengen Information System 
in the summer of 2023. The implementation 
of the Schengen acquis in the Member States 
is  monitored  with  the  Schengen  evaluation 
and  monitoring  mechanism.  The  evaluation 
is  carried  out  every  four  years,  and  as  the 
national supervisory authority, the Office of the 
Data Protection Ombudsman was one of the 
authorities evaluated.

28

P
ersonnel and finances

– updat

es to organisation structure

New team manager’s posts were introduced 
in the private-sector and public-sector units in 
connection with the restructuring. The team 
managers supervise the work of the Office’s 
inspectors and legal experts.

The duties of the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman are expected to increase in the 
coming years, for example due to new tasks 
arising from the EU’s digital and data legislation.

There were no changes in the number of personnel 
employed by the Office of the Data Protection 
Ombudsman from 2022. A total of 51 people 
were employed by the Office at the end of the year. 

The customer service teams that had operated in 
the Office were discontinued, and the new units 
started their work on 24 April 2023. These units 
are the private-sector guidance and supervision 
unit, public-sector guidance and supervision unit, 
administrative unit and management support and 
core services unit. The management support and 
core services unit is led by the Data Protection 
Ombudsman, the private-sector unit and public-
sector units by the Deputy Ombudsmen, and the 
administrative unit by the Head of Administration. 

Human resources* 

Number of personnel at the end of the year

Person years

Absences due to illness, day(s) per person years

Average age

Education index

2021 

55

49.1

10.4

40.3

6.2

2022 

54

51.9

13.2 

39.3

6.4

2023 

54

52.7

5.6

42.1

6.4

* The figures include the personnel of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman and the Function of the Intelligence 
Oversight Ombudsman (3 persons). The Function of Intelligence Oversight Ombudsman shares administrative functions 
with the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman.

Finances of the Office of the Data
Protection Ombudsman 

Realisation 

2021 

Realisation 

2022 

Use of the operating expenses
appropriation, €1,000

Total costs, €1,000

3,912

4,351

4,041

4,450

Target
2023 

5,343

-

Realisation 

2023 

4,324

4,730

29

Matters instituted  
and processed  
in 2021–2023

The table below presents how many cases have been 
instituted and how many cases have been resolved 
by the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman in 
2021–2023. The statistics have been compiled from 

the Office’s case management system at the end of 
the year in question. The Office adopted a new case 
management system in October 2023.

2021 

2022 

2023 

Instituted  Resolved 

Instituted  Resolved  

Instituted  Resolved  

Tasks in accordance with the GDPR and the Data Protection Law Enforcement Directive 

Prior consultation (high risk) 

Statements 

Codes of Conduct 

Transfers of personal data 

EU and international cooperation 

Rights of the data subject 

Supervision 

Personal data breaches 

Guidance and advice 

Data Protection Officers 

Board of Experts 

General, financial and  
human resource issues 

88

392

1

54

811

943

1,139

4,786

1,650

323

3

630

22

398

2

25

760

984

1,145

5,056

2,037

323

4

630

71

408

0

26

1,018

834

1,063

5,446

1,176

255

2

796

249

417

1

18

1,016

950

1,069

5,663

1,441

269

2

774

23

287

0

3

1,362

838

1,268

6,894

1,318

267

2

917

25

301

2

18

1,297

994

1,197

6,487

1,592

260

2

884

Total 

10,820

11,386

11,095

11,869

13,179

13,059

30

P. O. Box 800, FI-00531 Helsinki, Finland  
tel. +358 29 566 6700 (switchboard) 
tietosuoja@om.fi 
www.tietosuoja.fi

