REPUBLIC 

OF CYPRUS 

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER 

FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION 

 

 

 
 
Our ref. 11.17.001.006.014  
 

10 October 2019 

 
Data Protection Officer 
SEA CHEFS CRUISES LTD 
Limassol, Cyprus 
 
Subject: Result of the investigation – complaint of M.C. against SEA CHEFS CRUISES LTD 
about an erasure request under the GDPR 
 
Dear Madam, 
 
Further  to  the  exchange  of  communications  between  the  Commissioner  and  Sea  Chefs  Cruises 
Ltd  concerning  a  complaint  involving  Sea  Chefs  Cruises  Ltd,  we  hereby  inform  you  that  after 
assessment the information gathered in relation to this complaint, the Commissioner is of the view 
that the company did not infringe any provisions of the GDPR. 
 
Case summary 
 
The  data  subject  submitted  an  erasure  request  to  the  company  on  13.11.2018,  where  he  was 
previously employed. On 12.12.2018 the HR Department of the company, replied that some of his 
data were deleted and some other data will be kept in order: 

(a)  To comply with the legal obligation of the company for tax and VAT purposes 
(b)  To safeguard the companies legitimates interests in case of legal claims in accordance 

with the time limits provided for in law 66(I)/2012. 

 

The  data  subject  lodged  a  complaint  to  the  Commissioner  requesting  that  all  data  kept  by  the 
controller be deleted. 
 
The controller has its headquarters in Cyprus, and therefore the Commissioner for Personal Data 
Protection (hereafter “the Commissioner”) is acting as the lead authority in this matter. 
 
The Commissioner requested from the company, to provide information on: 

 
 

the complete list of all the personal data of the complainant which were not deleted 
the legal basis for keeping each of the data pursuant to article 17 paragraph (3), 

The Commissioner received the requested information, within the set timeframe. 
 
Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd response 
 
During the investigation, you provided the following information: 
 
The  Company  keeps  a  copy  of  the  employee’s  contract  of  employment  to  which  a  copy  of  his 
passport is attached. You explained that the copy of the passport is kept for data subject identity 
verification  purposes.  You  further  explained  that  this  information  is  stored  on  the  company’s  HR 
System where you maintain crew data and that it is protected by the various security mechanisms, 
detailed in your reply (Server/Database security, Workstation security and Network/Communication 
security). 
 
You provided a complete list of all the personal data of the complainant, which were not deleted. 
 

1 Iasonos str., P.O. Box 23378, 1682  NICOSIA, CYPRUS Tel.: +357 22818456, Fax:+357 22304565 

E-mail: commissioner@dataprotection.gov.cy ,Website: http://www.dataprotection.gov.cy 

 

 

 
 
The legal basis to keep personal data provided in the list, is the compliance with legal obligations 
according  to  national  law:  (a)  social  insurance  contributions  and  social  insurance  law  (Law 
59(I)/2010) (b) tax audit  and tax records (Law 4/1978) (c) requirement for retention of supporting 
documents  for  verification  of  identity,  employment  and  salary  for  social  insurance,  tax  and  vat 
investigations (up to 7 years according to national Law 95(I)/2000) and for establishing, exercising 
or defending legal claims (up to 6 years according to national law 66(Ι)/2012)  
 
The salary information, employment contract and passport copy will be deleted after expiration of 7 
years, from the date of termination of employment.   
 
The company keeps a copy of the Master’s Hearing record, containing the Master’s Hearing form, 
Report  to  Master,  Performance  Opportunity  Log  and  Shipboard  Crew  45-day  appraisal,  Security 
Incident Statements for establishing, exercising or defending legal claims. This information on the 
data  subject’s  dismissal  records  will  be  deleted  after  the  expiration  of  6  years  from  the  date  of 
termination, which is the expiration of time to initiate legal claims according to national law.   This 
information is necessary in case the data subject initiates legal claims against the employer. 
 
Commissioner’s views 
 
After  assessment  the  information  gathered,  the  Commissioner  is  of  the  view  that  the  company 
complied with its data protection obligations in relation to the issues at stake. 
 
In line with Article 17(1)(b) of the GDPR, the right to erasure does not apply in this case because 
“the  processing  is  necessary  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  which  requires  processing  by 
Union  or  Member  State  law  to  which  the  controller  is  subject  or  for  the  performance  of  a  task 
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller”. 
 
Namely, on the basis of article 30(2) of the law on Assessment and Collection of Taxes (national 
Law 4/1978) “books and records shall be kept for a period of at least six years from the end of the 
tax year to which they refer, unless the Director of the Tax Authority requests a longer period’. 
 
The  national  Value  Added  Tax  law  (national  Law  95(I)/2000),  obliges  every  person  (natural  or 
legal) who is subject to the VAT, to keep records and evidences of all expenses, including salaries, 
for a period of seven years from the date of the expense (article 5(3) of the law). 
 
Therefore,  information such as passport information, employment contract and salary information 
(including overtime, bonus and vacation payment) shall be kept for a period of seven years. 
 
Article 7(1) of Limitation of  Legal Proceedings act (Law 66(Ι)/2012) allows a period of six years 
from  the  date  on  which  the  grounds  of  the  legal  claim  is  based,  to  any  person  who  intends  to 
engage in legal proceeding in relation a contract agreement, such as employment contract. 
 
In light of the above, the Commissioner concluded that the data subject’s dismissal records should 
be kept for a period of six years, as the  data subject may appeal the decision of the company to 
the relevant court, six years after the dismissal. 
 
Based on the above-mentioned explanations, the Commissioner did not identify any infringements 
of the obligations set out in the GDPR by Sea Chefs Cruises Ltd. 
 
Best regards, 
 
Commissioner  
for Personal Data Protection 

