1/12

 File No.: EXP202100124

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated June 4, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against the DEPARTMENT OF UNIVERSAL HEALTH AND HEALTH
PUBLIC, GENERALITAT VALENCIANA with NIF S4611001A (hereinafter, the
CONSELLERY). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

states that the digital version of the newspaper ***PERIÓDICO.1 published the news about
his resignation after verifying non-compliance with the vaccination strategy. On the foot
of the news indicates that "... he is among the people who have been vaccinated against the
SARS-CoV-2, according to documentation to which he has had access ***PERIODICO.1. (...)
Your name appears on the list of those vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2 at the
salud ***CENTRO.1 of the city of Castellón between January 11 and January 12
from which it disappears afterwards".
It considers that unauthorized access and improper use of the same constitutes a
breach of the security of your personal data. He is not aware that the
responsible for the processing of your personal data related to health has been
notified to the Control Authority nor has it been communicated to you as an interested party.

Along with the notification, a screenshot of “XXXXXXXX” is provided, which according to
manifested by the complaining party is the health management system of the CONSELLERIA.
Likewise, a screenshot of the news item published in the digital version of the
newspaper ***PERIÓDICO.1 dated 01/27/2021, in which the resignation was reported
of the complaining party.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
LOPDGDD), the claim was forwarded to the CONSELLERIA, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 07/06/2021 as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

No response has been received to this letter of transfer.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

THIRD: On 09/04/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

BACKGROUND

-

The complaining party as of January 11, 2021 held the position of (...).
On that date, he received the first dose of the vaccine within the
COVID-19 vaccination orchestrated by the CONSELLERIA. This fact is
registered that same day in the CONSELLERIA's management system.

- On January 27, 2021, the digital version of the newspaper ***PERIÓDICO.1
published a piece of news reporting the resignation of (...) and the
statement issued by the (...) in which, according to the news, it was accepted
said resignation after verifying non-compliance with the vaccination strategy
COVID-19. The claimant refers that the publication included the following
text: "the (...), is among the people who have been vaccinated against SARS-
CoV-2, according to documentation to which ***PERIODICO.1” has had access as well
as "your name appears on the list of those vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2
of the health center ***CENTRO.1 of the city of Castellón between the 11th of
January and the January 12 of the one that disappears later.

- Considers that unauthorized access and improper use of the same supposes
a breach of the security of your personal data. has no record of
that the person responsible for the processing of your personal data has notified the
facts to the Control Authority nor have they been communicated to him as
interested.

Relevant documentation provided by the claimant:

- Refers as "screenshot" of the management system of the
CONSELLERIA document number 1 attached to the claim. Contains the
name of the system and the autonomous community in which it is used, and refers to the
date April 20, 2021. The name of the party is also observed
complainant, the name of a primary care nurse, and the list of
health care. Among the latter, the attention
"READING FOR IMPROVING IMMUNE STATUS" assigned per day
January 11.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

-

Screenshot of the news item published in ***PERIÓDICO.1 on the 27th of
January 2021.

The antecedents that appear in the information systems are the following:

Within the framework of procedure E/07627/2021, the AEPD, by virtue of article 65.4 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights, forwarded the claim to the CONSELLERIA.
This, in his response (entry registration number in the AEPD
O00007128e2100034202) stated the following:

-

 "This delegation received on July 6, 2021 transfer of claim and
request for information by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data with ref.: exp202100124, and addressed to the Conselleria de Sanidad Universal
and Public Health. We have not received as of today, the deadline, the
Official response from the Ministry responsible. On the same question and the
The same health center received claims from other DPDs
citizens. About these we were informed from the Ministry that it was sent
an informative note to its governing bodies on the duty of
confidentiality and that information was required from the health department
corresponding, indicating that they would inform us as soon as they had the
information."

RESULT OF INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

In addition to the documentation mentioned in the background section, it includes
information from the following sources:

- Written from the Editorial Unit registered entry in the AEPD with
dated February 1, 2022 and number O00007128e2200004385 (hereinafter
WrittenEditorial Unit).

- Written from the CONSELLERIA registered entry in the AEPD with
dated February 28, 2022 and number O00007128e2200009306 (in
forward Written CONSELLERIA #1).

- Written from the CONSELLERIA registered entry in the AEPD with
dated June 21, 2022 and number REGAGE22e00025680371 (in
forward Written CONSELLERIA #2).

- Written from the CONSELLERIA registered entry in the AEPD with
dated June 29, 2022 and number REGAGE22e00027157120 (in
forward Written CONSELLERIA #3).

Proceedings in front of the CONSELLERIA

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

After not having received a response to the issues raised in the transfer of the
claim, on January 18, 2022 a new requirement of
information to the CONSELLERIA. This information request was answered by the
February 28, 2022 (Written CONSELLERIA #1) stating the following:

“The response period for this requirement ended on February 18. HE
reiterated this circumstance on February 21 to the Ministry, and they answered us
that from the security office they would send all the information they could to the
regard. As soon as we receive it, we will forward it to the Agency.”

From the AEPD, later, on June 7, 2022, the request for
information. The CONSELLERIA has responded with two letters (Written
CONSELLERIA #2 and Written CONSELLERIA #3). The first of them contains, among
others, the following documents:

- Letter from the General Directorate of Planning, Technological Efficiency and
Patient Care (DGPETAP) of the CONSELLERIA that describes the
Actions taken to clarify the leaks to the media
in relation to the vaccination process. States that, on March 12,
2021, an information file was opened to determine the nature of the
facts consisting of access to the lists of the Registration System
Nominal Vaccination (RNV) against COVID-19 of the Health Center 9 de
October of Castellón for its subsequent transfer anonymously to
certain means of communication, at the same time that they are requested to provide
people who have had access to the RNV lists. After this fact
cites a series of communications between different bodies of the CONSELLERIA
in order to collect the list of people who would have had access to the RNV
without any conclusions being drawn in this regard.

- Agreement to open an information file in order to clarify the
leaks that occurred signed by the manager of the health department of
Castellón on March 12, 2021.

- Official letter of March 12, 2021 from the Economic Department of the Hospital in the
requesting the list of people who have had access to the RNV under
of the open information file.

- Email dated April 4, 2022 that refers to the "Transfer
application by the Legal Services to the "Service for the Promotion of
Health and Prevention in the stages of life" in which the list of
people who have had access to the RNV by virtue of the information file
open.

On the other hand, Written CONSELLERIA #3 attaches a report from the Service of
Health Promotion and Prevention Programs signed on June 28, 2022 that
contains, among other things, the following information:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

- Regarding the definition of the Vaccine Information System:

either (…)

either (…)

- Regarding the management of users and control of access to the SIV:

either (…)

either (…)

either (…)

- About the incident:

either (…)

either (…)

- About possible improvements:

either (…)

Actions against UEIG

In the course of these proceedings, Unidad Editorial was requested the following
information:

(…)
(…)
In response, Unidad Editorial provided the following information (EscritoUnidadEditorial):

- Regarding the responsibility for the information published in ***PERIÓDICO.1:

Editorial Unit declares (see EscritoUnidadEditorial) that the owner company
of the newspaper ***PERIÓDICO.1 is UEIG “not being responsible Unit
Editorial of the publications made in said newspaper nor of the
information poured into them”. However, in relation to the letter
received from the AEPD indicates that "in order to collaborate with the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection and in favor of guaranteeing compliance with the principle of
procedural economy, relevant information has been collected from UEIG to
to be able to respond to the request for information in the name and on behalf of
Of the same."

- Regarding the requested documentation and the scope of the right to freedom of

expression and information and the professional secrecy of journalists:

"Within the rights and guarantees recognized by article 20 of the
Spanish Constitution, by regulating the fundamental rights to freedoms
of expression and information, the right to secrecy is expressly recognized
journalists as a fundamental right, including within
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

6/12

of the same the right to the protection of the confidentiality of the sources. This
Thus, the right constitutes a guarantee that operates functionally to preserve
freedom of the press and the right to freely communicate or receive information
truthful by any means of diffusion, indispensable guarantee of a company
democracy, as proclaimed both in article 20.1 d) of the Constitution
such as article 10.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights.

The European Court of Human Rights (hereinafter, "ECtHR") has indicated
repeatedly that freedom of information represents a legal right
Preferably in a democratic society. Within the framework of the protection of
said right, the Court has stated on multiple occasions that it is
essential for their protection the safeguarding of professional secrecy, given that the
absence of protection of sources could lead to a situation in which
that they be discouraged from making contributions to the media that
allow and guarantee access to truthful information.

In this sense, the doctrine of the ECtHR has delimited in different judgments the
Scope of the right to professional secrecy in a broad sense, not limited
exclusively to the non-disclosure of the sources of obtaining the
information. Thus, the Court has considered that the protection of this right
fundamental extends to (i) the way in which the journalist obtained the
information; (ii) the unpublished part or content of the information
provided to the journalist by the source; and (iii) the materials, supports and
journalist's work instruments: notes, recordings, photographs,
documents, computers, external storage devices, etc.
(among others, Roemen v. Luxembourg; Nagla v. Latvia; Tillack v. Belgium; and
Sanoma II v. Holland).

On the other hand, Recommendation No. R (2000) 7 of the Committee of Ministers of the
Council of Europe, of March 8, 2000, has stressed that it is considered
information that could be revealed by the source, and that is therefore protected by the
professional secrecy, the "unpublished content of the information provided by
a source to the journalist”.

For all these reasons, and to the extent that the requested documentation is
expressly protected by professional secrecy, as a fundamental right
recognized by jurisprudence within the freedom of expression and
information, being that it includes the materials and documentation
that have been able to serve as support for the published information, also given that
according to the aforementioned doctrine, the identification could be inferred from said documents.
of the source from which the information was obtained, the secret of which is equally
object of protection within the framework of fundamental rights, we consider that
it is not possible to meet the information request or provide the AEPD with a
copy of the requested document.

- On the purposes and legal basis of the treatment carried out:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

"[...] the only purpose for which the aforementioned treatment has been carried out does not
the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information is another,
also enshrined in article 20 of the Spanish Constitution.

In this case, there is a possible conflict between two rights
fundamental, the doctrine of the National Court has recognized in
repeatedly since his judgment of April 12, 2013 (rec.
410/2010) that the legal basis of the treatment would be in the interest
legitimate prevailing that the constitutional legislator and the doctrine of the Court
Constitutional Court have granted the rights enshrined in article 20 of
the Constitution, with respect to those held by the media,
In addition, a reinforced ownership in accordance with the aforementioned jurisprudential doctrine.

Therefore, the legal basis for processing is found in article 6.1.f) […] and
in particular, the satisfaction of two legitimate interests:

o On the one hand, the one consisting of the author's right of the article, as
journalist and worker in a media outlet and, ultimately,
of the media itself, to communicate truthful information to the
potential recipients of the information.

o On the other, correlatively, the right of such recipients to be
informed about events of public importance in such a way
that they be provided with elements of judgment that contribute to forming their
own opinion about such events, as has happened in this
case.

Additionally, and based on what has just been reasoned, it should be noted
also take into account the context and content of the information to which
refers to the published article, and must also consider, on the same basis
of the reinforced protection that our constitutional jurisprudence grants to the
Article 20 of the Constitution that the legal basis for data processing
of health that could be derived from the news would also be found in the
exception to the prohibition of data processing belonging to categories
provisions included in article 9.2.g) of the aforementioned Regulation, being that
essential public interest the exercise of the fundamental right to freedom of
information and its contribution to the formation of public opinion on
matters that have public relevance and social interest, through the disclosure
of truthful information.

In this sense, the Judgment of the National Court 3343/2018, of 12
June (rec. 551/2016) maintains that "deserves special constitutional protection
the dissemination of ideas that contribute to the formation of public opinion and
make it easier for citizens to freely form their opinions and participate
responsibly in public affairs.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

There is no doubt that the fact that a public official allegedly used
their condition to receive preferential treatment in the vaccination protocol
against SARS-CoV-2, in the context of the global pandemic, is a fact
endowed with a special public relevance that justifies that it should be
known to the citizens.

CONCLUSIONS

The complaining party refers to an exfiltration of data from the systems of the
CONSELLERIA de Salud, as well as a treatment of personal data devoid of
legal basis by the media. Required clarification of the
made to the CONSELLERIA, which has provided documentation showing the opening
of an internal information file on the events in March 2021 that did not
I would have come to conclusions. It also provides a report describing the
user registration procedure in the Vaccination Information System of the
autonomous community and states that all users who accessed the system are
they were authorized to do so.

The media that published the news, relying on article 20 of the
Spanish Constitution and in the existing jurisprudence in this regard, does not facilitate the
documentation to which he had access as a source of the news. It also refers to the
means of communication that the purpose of the treatment is the exercise of the right to
freedom of expression and information enshrined in article 20 of the Constitution
Spanish. On the legal basis of the treatment, he cites the legitimate interest in a double
slope, the author and the recipients of the article. Likewise, it refers to the interest
essential public as the exception that lifts the prohibition on the treatment of
special categories of personal data in the present case.

FIFTH: On July 22, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged violation of Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR and Article 32 of the GDPR,
typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

On 08/04/2022, the CONSELLERIA presents a letter of allegations to the Agreement
Of start.

SIXTH: On October 18, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency proceeds to the
ARCHIVE of the actions initiated against the CONSELLERIA DE SANIDAD
UNIVERSAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH, GENERALITAT VALENCIANA, with NIF
S4611001A, for a violation of Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency proceed to the
ARCHIVE of the actions initiated against the CONSELLERIA DE SANIDAD
UNIVERSAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH, GENERALITAT VALENCIANA, with NIF
S4611001A, for a violation of Article 32 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.4
of the GDPR.

No arguments have been submitted to the motion for a resolution.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is proven that on 01/27/2021 the digital newspaper
***PERIÓDICO.1 published the news of the resignation of the complaining party, after having
covid-19 vaccinated without being a preferred group.

SECOND: It is accredited, extracted from the news published in the digital newspaper
EL MUNDO, that the State Attorney General's Office issued a statement according to which,
"after verifying the non-compliance by (...), of the provisions of the strategy of
covid-19 vaccination in Spain, approved by the plenary session of the interterritorial council of the
national health system, and executed by the Autonomous Communities, the (...), has
accepted the resignation

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

II

FIRST: The CONSELLERIA alleges that the vaccination information system (SIV) has
The objective is that the information related to the vaccination history of the people
residents in the Valencian Community is available in the health system so that
all professionals can have the necessary information.
All SIV users access (...). In each case an agreement profile is assigned
with the functions that must be carried out, being the consultation of the information
registered individually.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

Access to the information can be done directly to the SIV or through the
links available in the history of primary care or specialized care.
In the case of direct access to the SIV, the accreditation of the users is carried out
from the General Directorate of Public Health and Addictions (DGSPA). For this the
Users must submit an application form in which, in addition to their own data
(identification data, scope of work and professional profile) includes the
authorization from the person in charge of the work center. In the form it is indicated
literally: ‘The applicant assumes the responsibilities of the misuse of the
authorization of access to the Register of Nominal Vaccines, especially those
derived from the data protection regulations in force.
The DGSPA assigns the profile corresponding to their professional category and
territorial scope.
For access to the SIV for this route, a username/password is assigned, which the user
must change the first time you access, there is also the possibility of accessing
directly with a digital certificate. Accreditation for access from the
respective health histories is carried out by the General Directorate of Planning,
Technological Efficiency and Patient Care.
The DGSPA has obtained information on access to the SIV in the center
de salud ***CENTRO.1 the days on which the incident is supposed to have occurred.
All people have the proper authorization to access the system for the
exercise of their functions. From the investigations carried out, it has not been possible to conclude
responsibility for the leaking of the information registered in the SIV through
communication by them nor has it been possible to rule out that the information has been
provided by other means not directly related to the IVS.

In this regard, this Agency recognizes that, although it is evident that the
irregular vaccination of the complaining party was leaked, thereby giving rise to
tendered his resignation, it has not been possible to determine at what moment or for what
party from whom said leak occurred.

Likewise, the previous investigative actions carried out by the
AEPD itself have not been able to conclusively conclude how it was leaked
the news, when the newspaper ***PERIÓDICO.1 availed itself of its right to secrecy
professional, thus ignoring what data and documents were in the
statement provided by the Prosecutor's Office, or where they came from.

In conclusion, it has not been possible to determine if the list of vaccinated
refers to the newspaper ***PERIÓDICO.1 is an official list prepared by
the CONSELLERIA, or some other type of document where, informally,
data have been collected from vaccinated persons.

Article 5.1.f) "Principles relating to processing" of the GDPR establishes:

II

"1. Personal data will be:
(…)

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
illicit and against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality»).”

In the present case, it is clear that the personal data of the complaining party, obtained
in the CONSELLERIA database, were improperly exposed, since
according to the statement issued (...) accepts the resignation of the claimant party after
verify that (…).

However, from the investigation carried out, it has not been possible to demonstrate that the
filtration of said data came from the CONSELLERIA itself, not being able to
rule out that it has leaked in some other way, even at the level of citizens
individuals who may have observed the event and denounced it, such as
It appears in various news published by the media.

Article 32 "Security of treatment" of the GDPR establishes:

IV.

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which may include, among others:
a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration will be given to
take into account the risks presented by data processing, in particular as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and
have access to personal data can only process such data by following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of
the Union or of the Member States.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

In the present case it has not been possible to demonstrate that within the CONSELLERIA
produced a breach, so it cannot be said that they did not have the
appropriate technical and organizational measures to prevent an incident from occurring.

In view of all the proceedings, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: ARCHIVE this disciplinary proceeding.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CONSELLERIA DE SANIDAD
UNIVERSAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH, GENERALITAT VALENCIANA, and report on the
result of the performances to A.A.A..

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-181022

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

