1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00298/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (the claimant), on 10/08/2019 filed a claim
before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The letter is also directed against
TELEFÓNICA MOBILES DE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A82018474 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are, in short: that the
O2 telephone operator has an APP to check bills or consumption,
application that, for installation, also requests access to all data
stored on the device.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 11/27/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and he was required so that within a month he sent to the determined Agency
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that the
claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring
Similar.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On 12/13/2019, the respondent stated that the "MiO2" mobile application, intended for
line management, bill consultation and customer consumption, can be used without
accept the different permissions that are requested during your download; the application of
those permissions are done to enrich the customer experience but they are not
necessary for the basic aspects of the application. Regarding the specific permission
of "Storage" is requested since it is necessary to be able to download the
invoices in the terminals whose operating system of the clients is Android. So
You can request the receipt of paper invoices in accordance with the regulations
valid.

THIRD: On December 1, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged violations of articles 5.1.c) of the RGPD, and article 13 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FOURTH: On May 17, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
to TELEFÓNICA DE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A82018474, for two infringements
against:

Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in art. 83.5 a) GDPR with a fine


50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros)

Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 b) of the RGPD with a


fine of 50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros)

FIFTH: On May 31, 2021, arguments are presented to said proposal
of resolution by the claimed party indicating the following:

In relation to the infringement of article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, the respondent indicates that:

“It is not true that the installation of the application requires access to the
personal data stored by users on the device.

The Mi O2 mobile app can work properly without the need to
accept their different permissions, for which their express acceptance is necessary.
In addition, the 7 client is informed at all times prior to his
authentication of what each permission is needed for.

With regard to the specific permit called "Storage", which the AEPD
understood as "excessive", it is necessary to show that it would be treated
of a permission that is textually identified with the literal:

• Permission to access photos, media content and device files, but that
despite such introductory expression, it only refers to the fact that by means of the consent to
With this permission, you authorize O2 to be able to download your invoices to your device.

This permission is only requested on Android devices.

This party considers that the execution of said permission is not excessive at all, and
that is adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary for its purpose: the user is informed
which is only necessary to be able to download your invoices to the device.

In no case for the download of the invoice, the My O2 mobile application would treat the
data of the photos, multimedia content or files that the user has in his
device, being only the necessary permission solely and exclusively for the
Download the invoice in pdf format.

Otherwise, there would be no way for the user to download their invoice given
that this requires access to this section of the device.

As indicated in the allegations to the Initial Agreement and that we return to
reproduce given the omission of these facts in the AEPD Resolution Proposal,
this part cannot modify the literal “ACCESS PERMISSION TO PHOTOS,
MEDIA CONTENT AND FILES ON THE DEVICE”, which is displayed to users

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

users of the application when accepting the permission, and which serves as the basis for the
initiation of the sanctioning file by the AEPD, given that it is a text
default by Android system.

For these purposes, we refer the AEPD to the website for Android developers
https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/requesting, where following the
permissions is indicated:

Note: Your app cannot customize the dialog that appears when you call launch().

If you want to provide more information or context to the user, change your app's UI
in order to make it easier for users to understand why a function needs
a particular permit. For example, you can change the button text that enables
the function.
In addition, the text of the system permissions dialog refers to the group of
permissions associated with the permission you requested.

This way of grouping permissions is designed for ease of use of the system, and
your app should not depend on permissions inside or outside a permission group
specific.

In this sense, and following the guidelines indicated by Android, this part has tried
by explaining the permissions, both on our website and in the
Conditions of use of the application, as in the help page, really indicate
what it is needed for: “by consenting to this permission, you authorize O2 to
be able to download your invoices to your device.

This permission is only requested on Android devices.” 8

For this reason, we consider that the action actually carried out -that we remember in any
moment supposes the access to photos, multimedia contents and device files-
complies with the principle of data minimization established in art. 5.1.c) of the
RGDP, as these are treated appropriately, pertinently and limited to what is necessary.

The only purpose of the request for permission to access the device is the possibility
that the user can download their invoice.

Therefore and in conclusion, TME has not violated article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.”

Secondly, in relation to the violation of article 13 of the RGPD, the
claimed alleges in relation to the permissions requested in the mobile application what
Next:

“In clause 11 of the O2 Mobile Application Terms of Use itself,
referring exclusively to the permissions requested in the mobile application:

11. Permissions To use certain services or functionalities and depending on the
operating system of your terminal, you will need to give your prior consent to Mi
O2 to collect additional information about you or about information found
stored on your device.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

This consent may be canceled or granted again at any time.
through the permissions section of your own device.

6 Specifically, Mi O2 may request the following permissions for the following
functionalities:

• Access permission through Face ID: by consenting to this permission
available only for IOS terminals, you authorize O2 to collect the information
available on your facial recognition IOS device, so you can
access the My O2 app without entering login credentials.

• Access permission by fingerprint: by consenting to this
permission available only for Android terminals, you authorize O2 to collect the
information available on your Android device of your fingerprint, so that
You will be able to access the Mi O2 application without the need to enter your login credentials.
access.

  • Contact access permission: By consenting to this permission,
available for all types of devices, you authorize O2 to access your list of
contacts from your device to offer you a better experience.

In this way, the images and names of your agenda can be seen in your lines and in
the detail of the calls that appear in the application.

• Permission for consumer advertisements: by consenting to this permission,
available for all types of devices, you can view and receive consumption notices
in real time.

• Access permission to photos, media content and device files:
by consenting to this permission, you authorize O2 to be able to download the
invoices of your O2 products and services that you want on your device.

 • Consumption widget activation permission: display of GB consumed
in the current cycle on the line/s that the user chooses to see.

In this sense, the AEPD cannot affirm that the mobile application consults invoices
of the client prior to its download or that affects all the data stored
on the device or data from third parties outside the entity.

The client is informed at all times in a clear, simple and transparent way and
prior to downloading the application, both the data of the person in charge of the
treatment as of the implications of the acceptance of the different permissions of the
application, without in any case its acceptance becoming mandatory for its use.

For all these reasons, TME can affirm that it complies at all times with the requirements
established in art. 13 of the RGPD without being able to be charged with a sanction for this
done."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The telephone operator O2 has a computer application to
consult the invoices or consumption of its users and for the installation of said
application, access to all personal data stored by users is required.
users on the device.

SECOND: On November 27, 2019, the claim was transferred to the defendant,
responding on December 13, 2020 that the "MiO2" mobile application, intended for
line management, bill consultation and customer consumption, can be used without
accept the different permissions that are requested during your download; the application of
those permissions are done to enrich the customer experience but they are not
necessary for the basic aspects of the application.

THIRD: On December 30, 2020, in response to the agreement to initiate this
sanctioning procedure, it is alleged by the defendant that he does not breach articles 13
and 5.1 c) of the RGPD indicated as "all users of the My O2 Mobile Application already
has all the necessary information and that must be provided in accordance with art. 13
of the RGPD, since said information is included in the "Data Protection" clause of
the different General Contracting Conditions of the Products and Services
O2 brand, which both the AEPD, our customers, and any interested person
you can consult
all the time on our website
www.o2online.es/informacion-legal. “

  in

FOURTH: On May 31, 2021, arguments are presented to the proposal of
resolution proving that it is not necessary for the installation of the application the
access to personal data stored by users on the device, as well
such as compliance with article 13.1 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: In the privacy policy and in the Conditions of use of the Application
O2 mobile, information is given on each access permit that is requested, its purpose, the
reason for that access and the possibility of granting and canceling them.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

II

Article 5, Principles relating to processing, states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");
(…)
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").
(…)”

III

Second, article 13 of the RGPD determines the information that must be
be provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, establishing the
Next:
 
“Article 13. Information that must be provided when personal data is
obtain from the interested party.

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

IV

In the present case, after studying the arguments presented, it is considered that
the conduct of the claimed party does not violate article 5 of the RGPD, which regulates the principles
related to the treatment, materialized in that the personal data that are
required to put the application into operation, after proving that it is not
necessary for the installation of the application access to personal data
stored by users on the device.

In relation to article 13 of the RGPD, it has been verified that the respondent informs
duly to the complainant about the accesses, which are well informed about

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

the conditions of use of the application, explaining the need for access and its
purpose.

v

Therefore, after learning of these facts, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

