Guidelines 06/2020 on the interplay of the Second Payment

Services Directive and the GDPR

Version 2.0

Adopted on 15 December 2020

Adopted

1

Version history

Version 2.0
Version 1.0

15.12.2020
17.07.2020

Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation
Adoption of the Guidelines for publication consultation

Adopted

2

3

2

3.3

3.2.1

1.1
1.2

3.1
3.2

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5

Table of contents
1. Introduction......................................................................................................................................... 5
Definitions ............................................................................................................................... 6
Services under the PSD2.......................................................................................................... 7
Lawful grounds and further processing under the PSD2 ................................................................ 9
Lawful grounds for processing ................................................................................................ 9
Article 6(1)(b) of the GDPR (processing is necessary for the performance of a contract)...... 9
Fraud prevention................................................................................................................... 11
Further processing (AISP and PISP) ....................................................................................... 11
Lawful ground for granting access to the Account (ASPSPs)................................................. 12
Explicit Consent ............................................................................................................................. 13
Consent under the GDPR....................................................................................................... 13
Consent under the PSD2 ....................................................................................................... 13
Explicit consent under Article 94 (2) PSD2 .................................................................... 14
Conclusion ............................................................................................................................. 15
The processing of silent party data ............................................................................................... 16
Silent party data .................................................................................................................... 16
The legitimate interest of the controller............................................................................... 16
Further processing of personal data of the silent party........................................................ 16
The processing of special categories of personal data under the PSD2 ....................................... 18
Special categories of personal data....................................................................................... 18
Possible derogations ............................................................................................................. 19
Substantial public interest..................................................................................................... 19
Explicit consent...................................................................................................................... 19
No suitable derogation.......................................................................................................... 20
Data minimisation, security, transparancy, accountability and profiling ..................................... 21
Data minimisation and data protection by design and default ............................................ 21
Data minimisation measures................................................................................................. 21
Security.................................................................................................................................. 22
Transparency and accountability .......................................................................................... 23
Profiling ................................................................................................................................. 25

6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5

5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4
5.5

4.1
4.2
4.3

4

5

6

Adopted

3

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70 (1) (e) of Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

Whereas:

(1) The General Data Protection Regulation provides for a consistent set of rules for the processing of
personal data throughout the EU.

(2) The second Payment Services Directive (Directive 2015/2366/EU of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 23 December 2015, hereinafter “PSD2”) repeals Directive 2007/64/EC and provides
new rules to ensure legal certainty for consumers, merchants and companies within the payment chain
and modernizing the legal framework for the market for payment services2. Member States had to
transpose the PSD2 into their national law before the 13 January 2018.

(3)  An  important  feature  of the PSD2  is  the  introduction  of a  legal  framework  for new  payment
initiation  services and account information  services. The PSD2  allows  these  new  payment  service
providers to obtain access to payment accounts of data subjects for the purposes of providing the said
services.

(4) With regard to data protection, in accordance with Article 94 (1) of the PSD2, any processing of
personal data, including the provision of information about the processing, for the purposes of the
PSD2, shall be carried out in accordance with the GDPR3 and with Regulation (EU) No 2018/1725.

(5) Recital 89 of the PSD2 states that where personal data is processed for the purposes of the PSD2,
the precise purpose of the processing should be specified, the applicable legal basis should be named,
the relevant security requirements laid down in the GDPR must be implemented, and the principles of
necessity,  proportionality, purpose  limitation  and  proportionate  data  retention  periods  respected.
Also,  data  protection  by  design  and  data  protection  by  default  should  be  embedded  in  all  data
processing systems developed and used within the framework of the PSD24.

(6)  Recital  93 of  the  PSD2 states  that  the  payment  initiation  service  providers and  the  account
information service providers on the one hand and the account servicing payment service provider on
the other, should observe the necessary data protection and security requirements established by, or
referred to in, this Directive or included in the regulatory technical standards.

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.
2 Recital 6 PSD2
3 As PSD2 predates the GDPR, it still refers to Directive 95/46. Article 94 GDPR states that references to the
repealed Directive 95/46 shall be construed as references to the GDPR.
4 Recital 89, PSD2

Adopted

4

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES

1. INTRODUCTION

The second Payment Services Directive (hereinafter “PSD2”) has introduced a number of novelties
in the payment services field. While it creates new opportunities for consumers and enhances
transparency in such field, the application of the PSD2 raises certain questions and concerns in
respect of the need that the data subjects remain in full control of their personal data. The General
Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter  “GDPR”) applies  to  the  processing  of  personal  data
including processing activities carried out in the context of payment services as defined by the
PSD25. Thus, controllers acting in the field covered by the PSD2 must always ensure compliance
with the requirements of the GDPR, including the principles of data protection set out in Article 5
of the GDPR, as well as the relevant provisions of the ePrivacy Directive6. While the PSD27 and the
Regulatory Technical Standards for strong customer authentication and common and secure open
standards  of  communication  (hereinafter  “RTS”8) contain certain  provisions  relating  to  data
protection and security, uncertainty has arisen about the interpretation of these provisions as well
as the interplay between the general data protection framework and the PSD2.

On  July  5  2018,  the  EDPB  issued  a  letter  regarding  the  PSD2,  in  which  the  EDPB  provided
clarifications on questions concerning the protection of personal data in relation to the PSD2, in
particular on the processing of personal data of non-contracting parties (so called ‘silent party
data’) by account  information  service  providers  (hereinafter  “AISPs”) and payment  initiation
service  providers  (hereinafter  “PISPs”),  the  procedures  with  regard  to  giving  and  withdrawing
consent,  the  RTS  and  the  cooperation  between account  servicing payment  services  providers
(hereinafter “ASPSPs”) in relation to security measures. Whereas the preparatory work of these
guidelines involved the collection of inputs from stakeholders, both in writing and at a stakeholder
event, in order to identify the most pressing challenges.

These guidelines aim to provide further guidance on data protection aspects in the context of the
PSD2, in particular on the relationship between relevant provisions on the GDPR and the PSD2.
The main focus of these guidelines is on the processing of personal data by AISPs and PISPs. As
such, this document addresses conditions for granting access to payment account information by
ASPSPs and for the processing of personal data by PISPs and AISPs, including the requirements and
safeguards in relation to the processing of personal data by PISPs and AISPs for purposes other
than the initial purposes for which the data have been collected, especially when they have been
collected in the context of the provision of an account information service9. This document also

5 Art. 1 (1) GDPR
6 Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the
processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on
privacy and electronic communications); OJ L 201, 31/07/2002 P. 0037 - 0047
7 Art. 94 PSD etc.
8 Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2018/389 of 27 November 2017 supplementing Directive (EU)
2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for
strong customer authentication and common and secure open standards of communication (Text with EEA
relevance.); C/2017/7782; OJ L 69, 13.3.2018, p. 23–43; available at https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32018R0389&from=EN
9 An account information service is an online service to provide consolidated information on one or more
payment accounts held by the payment service user either with another payment service provider or with
more than one payment service provider.

Adopted

5

addresses different notions of explicit consent under the PSD2 and the GDPR, the processing of
‘silent party data’, the processing of special categories of personal data by PISPs and AISPs, the
application  of  the  main  data  protection  principles  set  forth  by  the  GDPR,  including data
minimisation,  transparency,  accountability and  security  measures. The  PSD2 involves  cross-
functional responsibilities in the fields of, inter alia, consumer protection and competition law.
Considerations regarding these fields of law are beyond the scope of these guidelines.

To facilitate the reading of the guidelines the main definitions used in this document are provided
below.

1.1 Definitions
‘Account Information Service Provider’ (‘AISP’)’ refers to the provider of an online service to provide
consolidated information on one or more payment accounts held by the payment service user with
either another payment service provider or with more than one payment service provider;

‘Account Servicing Payment Service Provider’ (‘ASPSP’) refers to a payment service provider providing
and maintaining a payment account for a payer;

‘Data minimisation’ is  a  principle  of  data  protection,  according  to  which  personal  data  shall  be
adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed;

‘Payer’ refers to a natural or legal person who holds a payment account and allows a payment order
from that payment account, or, where there is no payment account, a natural or legal person who
gives a payment order;

‘Payee’ refers to a natural or legal person who is the intended recipient of funds, which have been the
subject of a payment transaction;

‘Payment account’ means an account held in the name of one or more payment service users, which
is used for the execution of payment transactions;

‘Payment Initiation Service Provider’ (‘PISP’) refers to the provider of a service to initiate a payment
order at the request of the payment service user with respect to a payment account held at another
payment service provider;

‘Payment service provider’ refers to a means a body referred to in Article 1(1) of the PSD210 or a natural
or legal person benefiting from an exemption pursuant to Article 32 or 33 of the PSD2;

10 Art. 1 (1) PSD2 states that the PSD2 establishes the rules in accordance with which Member States shall
distinguish between the following categories of payment service provider:
(a) credit institutions as defined in point (1) of Art. 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European
Parliament and of the Council (1), including branches thereof within the meaning of point (17) Art. 4(1) of that
Regulation where such branches are located in the Union, whether the head offices of those branches are
located within the Union or, in accordance with Art. 47 of Directive 2013/36/EU and with national law, outside
the Union;
(b) electronic money institutions within the meaning of point (1) of Art. 2 of Directive 2009/110/EC, including,
in accordance with Art. 8 of that Directive and with national law, branches thereof, where such branches are
located within the Union and their head offices are located outside the Union, in as far as the payment services
provided by those branches are linked to the issuance of electronic money;
(c) post office giro institutions which are entitled under national law to provide payment services;
(d) payment institutions;

Adopted

6

‘Payment service user’ means a natural or legal person making use of a payment service in the capacity
of payer, payee, or both;

‘Personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data
subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular
by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier
or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or
social identity of that natural person;

‘Data protection by design’ refers to technical and organizational measures embedded into a product
or service, which are designed to implement data-protection principles, in an effective manner and to
integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing in order to meet the requirements of the GDPR
and protect the rights of data subjects;

‘Data protection by default’ refers to appropriate technical and organisational measures implemented
in a product or service which ensure that, by default, only personal data which are necessary for each
specific purpose of the processing are processed;

‘RTS’ refers  to  the Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  2018/389  of  27  November  2017
supplementing Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard
to regulatory technical standards for strong customer authentication and common and secure open
standards of communication;

‘Third Party Providers’ (‘TPP’) refers to both PISPs and AISPs.

1.2 Services under the PSD2

The PSD2 introduces two new kinds of payment service (providers): PISPs and AISPs. Annex 1 of
the PSD2 contains the eight payment services that are covered by the PSD2.

PISPs provide services to initiate payment orders at the request of the payment service user with
respect  to a user’s  payment  account  held  at  another  payment  service  provider11. A  PISP can
request an ASPSP (usually a bank) to initiate a transaction on behalf of the payment service user.
The (payment service) user can be a natural person (data subject) or a legal person.

AISPs provide online services for consolidated information on one or more payment accounts held
by the payment service user either with another payment service provider or with more than one
payment service provider12. According to recital 28 PSD2, the payment service user is able to have
an overall view of its financial situation immediately at any given moment.

When it comes to account information services, there could be several different types of services
offered, with the emphasis on different features and purposes. For example, some providers may
offer users services such as budget planning and monitoring spending. The processing of personal
data in the context of these services is covered by the PSD2. Services that entail creditworthiness
assessments of the payment service user or audit services performed on the basis of the collection
of  information via  an  account  information  service  fall  outside  of  the  scope  of  the  PSD2 and
therefore fall under the GDPR. Furthermore, accounts other than payment accounts (e.g. savings,

(e) the ECB and national central banks when not acting in their capacity as monetary authority or other public
authorities;
(f) Member States or their regional or local authorities when not acting in their capacity as public authorities.
11 Art. 4 (15) PSD2.
12 Art. 4 (16) PSD2

Adopted

7

investments) are not covered by the PSD2 either. In any case, the GDPR is the applicable legal
framework for the processing of personal data.

Example 1:

HappyPayments is a company that offers an online service consisting of the provision of information
on one or more payment accounts through a mobile app in order to provide financial oversight (an
Account Information Service). With this service the payment service user can see at a glance the
balances and recent transactions in two or more payment accounts at different banks. It also offers,
when a payment service user chooses to do so, a categorisation of spending and income according
to different typologies (salary, leisure, energy, mortgage, etc.), thus helping the payment service
user  with  financial  planning.  Within  this  app,  HappyPayments  also  offers  a  service to  initiate
payments directly from the users designated payment account(s) (a Payment Initiation Service).

In order to provide those services, the PSD2 regulates the legal conditions under which PISPs and
AISPs can access payment accounts to provide a service to the payment service user.

Articles 66 (1) and 67 (1) PSD2 determine that the access and the use of payment and account
information services are rights of the payment service user. This means that the payment service
user should remain entirely free with regard to the exercise of such right and cannot be forced to
make use of this right.

Access to payment accounts and the use of payment account information is partly regulated in
Articles 66 and 67 PSD2, which contain safeguards regarding the protection of (personal) data.
Article 66 (3) (f) PSD2 states that the PISP shall not request from the payment service user any data
other than those necessary to provide the payment initiation service, and Article 66 (3) (g) PSD2
provides that PISPs shall not use, access or store any data for purposes other than for performing
the  payment  initiation  service  explicitly  requested  by  the  payment  service  user.  Furthermore,
Article 67 (2) (d) PSD2 limits the access of AISPs to the information from designated payment
accounts and associated payment transactions, whereas Article 67 (2) (f) PSD2 states that AISPs
shall  not  use,  access  or  store  any  data  for  purposes  other  than  for  performing  the  account
information  service explicitly  requested  by  the  payment  service  user,  in  accordance with  data
protection  rules. The  latter emphasises that,  within  the  context  of  the  account  information
services, personal data can only be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes. An
AISP should therefore make explicit in the contract for what specific purposes personal account
information data are going to be processed for, in the context of the account information service
it provides. The contract should be lawful, fair and transparent under Article 5 of the GDPR and
also comply with other consumer protection laws.

Depending on specific circumstances, payment service providers could be a controller or processor
under the GDPR. In these guidelines, ‘controllers’ are those payment service providers who, alone
or jointly with others, determine the purposes and means of the processing of personal data. More
guidance on this can be found in the EDPB Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and
processor in the GDPR.

Adopted

8

2 LAWFUL GROUNDS AND FURTHER PROCESSING UNDER THE PSD2

2.1 Lawful grounds for processing

Under the GDPR, controllers must have a legal basis in order to process personal data. Article 6 (1)
of  the GDPR  constitutes  an  exhaustive  and  restrictive  list of six legal  bases  for  processing  of
personal data under the GDPR13. It is up to the controller to define the appropriate legal basis and
ensure that all conditions for this legal basis are met. Determining which basis is valid and most
appropriate in a specific situation depends on the circumstances under which the processing takes
place, including the purpose of the processing and relationship between the controller and the
data subject.

2.2 Article 6(1)(b) of the GDPR (processing is necessary for the performance of a

contract)

Payment services are provided on a contractual basis between the payment services user and the
payment services provider. As stated in recital 87 of the PSD2, "[t]his Directive should concern only
contractual obligations and responsibilities between the payment service user and the payment
service provider." In terms of the GDPR, the main legal basis for the processing of personal data
for the provision of payment services is Article 6(1)(b) of the GDPR, meaning that the processing is
necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take
steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract.

The payment services under the PSD2 are defined in annex 1 of the PSD2. The provision of these
services as defined by the PSD2 is a requirement for the establishment of a contract in which
parties have access to payment account data of the payment service user. These payment service
providers also have to be licenced operators. In relation to payment initiation services and account
information services under the PSD2, contracts may incorporate terms that also impose conditions
about additional services that are not regulated by the PSD2. The EDPB Guidelines 2/2019 on the
processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the provision of online
services to data subjects make clear that controllers have to assess what processing of personal
data  is  objectively  necessary  to  perform  the  contract.  These  Guidelines  point  out  that  the
justification of the necessity is dependent on the nature of the service, the mutual perspectives

13 According to Article 6 processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following
applies:
(a)

the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more
specific purposes;

(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order

to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;

(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural

person;

(e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the

exercise of official authority vested in the controller;

(f) processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a

third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and
freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular where the data
subject is a child.

Adopted

9

and expectations of the parties to the contract, the rationale of the contract and the essential
elements of the contract.

The EDPB guidelines 2/2019 also make clear that, in light of Article 7(4) of the GDPR, a distinction
is made  between  processing  activities  necessary for  the  performance of  a  contract and  terms
making the service conditional on certain processing activities that are not in fact necessary for
the performance of the contract. ‘Necessary for performance’ clearly requires something more
than a contractual condition14. The controller should be able to demonstrate how the main object
of the specific contract with the data subject cannot, as a matter of fact, be performed if the
specific  processing  of  the  personal  data  in  question  does  not  occur. Merely  referencing  or
mentioning data processing in a contract is not enough to bring the processing in question within
the scope of Article 6(1)(b) of the GDPR.

Article 5 (1) (b) of the GDPR provides for the purpose limitation principle, which requires that
personal data must be collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes and not further
processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes. When assessing whether Article
6(1)(b) is an appropriate legal basis for an online (payment) service, regard should be given to the
particular aim, purpose, or objective of the service15. The purposes of the processing must be
clearly  specified  and  communicated  to  the  data  subject,  in  line  with  the  controller’s  purpose
limitation and transparency obligations. Assessing what is ‘necessary’ involves a combined, fact-
based assessment of the processing “for the objective pursued and of whether it is less intrusive
compared to other options for achieving the same goal”. Article 6(1)(b) does not cover processing
which is useful but not objectively necessary for performing the contractual service or for taking
relevant pre-contractual steps at the request of the data subject, even if it is necessary for the
controller’s other business purposes16.

The EDPB Guidelines 2/2019 make clear that contracts cannot artificially expand the categories of
personal  data  or  types  of  processing  operation  that  the  controller  needs  to  carry  out  for  the
performance of the contract within the meaning of Article 6(1)(b)17. These Guidelines also address
cases in which ‘take it or leave it’ situations may be created for data subjects who may only be
interested in one of the services. This could happen when a controller wishes to bundle several
separate  services  or  elements  of  a  service  with  different  fundamental  purposes,  features  or
rationale into one contract. Where the contract consists of several separate services or elements
of  a  service  that  can  in  fact  reasonably  be  performed  independently  of  one  another,  the
applicability  of  Article  6(1)(b)  should  be  assessed  in  the  context  of  each  of  those  services
separately, looking  at what  is  objectively  necessary  to  perform  each  of  the  individual  services
which the data subject has actively requested or signed up for18.

In  line  with  the  abovementioned  Guidelines,  controllers  have  to  assess  what  is  objectively
necessary for the performance of the contract. Where controllers cannot demonstrate that the
processing of the personal payment account data is objectively necessary for the provision of each
of these services separately, Article 6 (1) (b) of the GDPR is not a valid legal ground for processing.
In these cases, the controller should consider another legal basis for processing.

14 Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the
provision of online services to data subjects, EDPB, page 8.
15 Idem.
16 Idem, page 7.
17 Idem, page 10.
18 Idem, page 11.

Adopted

10

2.3 Fraud prevention

Article 94 (1) PSD2 states that Member States shall permit processing of personal data by payment
systems and payment service providers when necessary to safeguard the prevention, investigation
and  detection  of  payment  fraud. The processing  of  personal  data  strictly  necessary  for  the
purposes of preventing fraud could constitute a legitimate interest of the payment service provider
concerned, provided that such interests are not overridden by the interests or fundamental rights
and  freedoms  of  the  data  subject19. Processing  activities  for  the  purpose  of  fraud  prevention
should be based on a careful case by case evaluation by the controller, in accordance with the
accountability principle. In addition, to prevent fraud, controllers may also be subject to specific
legal obligations that necessitate the processing of personal data.

2.4 Further processing (AISP and PISP)

Article 6  (4) of  the GDPR determines the  conditions  for the  processing of  personal  data for a
purpose other than that for which the personal data have been collected. More specifically, such
further processing may take place, where it is based on a Union or Member State law, which
constitutes  a  necessary  and  proportionate  measure  in  a  democratic  society  to  safeguard  the
objectives referred to in Article 23(1), where the data subject has given their consent or where the
processing for a purpose other than that for which the personal data were collected is compatible
with the initial purpose.

Articles  66  (3)  (g)  and  67  (2)  (f)  of  the  PSD2  have  to  be  taken  into  careful  consideration.  As
mentioned above, Article 66 (3) (g) of the PSD2 states that the PISP shall not use, access or store
any data for purposes other than for the provision of the payment initiation service as explicitly
requested by the payer. Article 67 (2) (f) of the PSD2 states that the AISP shall not use, access or
store any data for purposes other than for performing the account information service explicitly
requested by the payment service user, in accordance with data protection rules.

Consequently,  Article  66(3)(g)  and  Article  67  (2)  (f)  of  the  PSD2 considerably  restrict the
possibilities for processing for other purposes, meaning that the processing for another purpose is
not allowed, unless the data subject has given consent pursuant to Article 6(1)(a) of the GDPR or
the processing is laid down by Union law or Member State law to which the controller is subject,
pursuant to Article 6 (4) of the GDPR. Where the processing for a purpose other than that for which
the personal data have been collected is not based on the data subject’s consent or on a Union or
Member State law, the restrictions laid down in Article 66(3)(g) and Article 67(2)(f) of the PSD2
make clear that any other purpose is not compatible with the purpose for which the personal data
are initially collected. The compatibility test of Article 6(4) GDPR cannot result in a legal basis for
processing.

Article 6 (4) of the GDPR allows for further processing based on Union or Member State law. For
example, all PISPs and AISPs are obliged entities under Article 3 (2) (a) Directive (EU) 2015/849 of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the
financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing of the anti-money
laundering directive. These obliged entities are therefore compelled to apply the customer due
diligence measures as specified in the directive. The personal data processed in connection with a

19 Recital 47 GDPR.

Adopted

11

PSD2 service are, therefore, further processed based on at least one legal obligation resting on the
service provider20.

As mentioned in paragraph 20, Article 6 (4) of the GDPR indicates that the processing for a purpose
other  than that  for which  the  personal  data  have  been  collected  could  be  based  on  the  data
subject's consent, if all the conditions for consent under the GDPR are met. As set out above, the
controller  needs  to  demonstrate  that  it  is  possible  to  refuse  or  withdraw  consent  without
detriment (recital 42 of the GDPR).

2.5 Lawful ground for granting access to the Account (ASPSPs)

As mentioned in paragraph 10, payment service users can exercise their right to make use of
payment initiation and account information services. The obligations imposed on the Member
States in Articles 66(1) and 67(1) of the PSD2 should be implemented in national law in order to
guarantee the effective application of the right of the payment service user to benefit from the
aforementioned payment services. The effective application of such rights would not be possible
without the existence of a corresponding obligation on the ASPSP, typically a bank, to grant the
payment service  provider  access  to  the  account  under  the  condition  that it has  fulfilled  all
requirements to get access to the account of the payment service user. Furthermore, Articles 66(5)
and 67(4) of the PSD2 state clearly that the provision of payment initiation services and of account
information  services  shall  not  be  dependent  on  the  existence  of  a  contractual  relationship
between the PISP/AISP and the ASPSP.

The processing of personal data by the ASPSP consisting of granting access to the personal data
requested by the PISP and AISP in order to perform their payment service to the payment service
user is based on a legal obligation. In order to achieve the objectives of the PSD2, ASPSPs must
provide the personal data for the PISPs´ and AISPs´ services, which is a necessary condition for
PISPs and AISPs to provide their services and thus ensure the rights provided for in Articles 66(1)
and 67(1) of the PSD2. Therefore, the applicable legal ground in this case is Article 6 (1) (c) of the
GDPR.

As the GDPR has specified that processing based on a legal obligation should be clearly laid down
by Union or Member State law (see Article 6 (3) of the GDPR), the obligation for ASPSPs to grant
access should stem from the national law transposing the PSD2.

20 Note that a thorough examination of the question whether the anti-money laundering directive meets the
standard of Art. 6 (4) GDPR falls outside of the scope of this document.

Adopted

12

3 EXPLICIT CONSENT

3.1 Consent under the GDPR

Under the GDPR, consent serves as one of the six legal grounds for the lawfulness of processing of
personal data. Article 4 (11) of the GDPR defines consent as “any freely given, specific, informed
and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by
a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or
her”. These four conditions, freely given, specific, informed, and unambiguous, are essential for
the validity of consent. According to the EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation
2016/679, consent can only be an appropriate lawful basis if a data subject is offered control and
a genuine choice with regard to accepting or declining the terms offered or declining them without
detriment. When asking for consent, a controller has the duty to assess whether it will meet all the
requirements to obtain valid consent. If obtained in full compliance with the GDPR, consent is a
tool that gives data subjects control over whether or not personal data concerning them will be
processed. If not, the data subject’s control becomes illusory and consent will be an invalid legal
basis for processing, rendering the processing activity unlawful21.

The GDPR also contains further safeguards in Article 7, which sets out that the data controller must
be in a position to demonstrate that there had been valid consent at the time of processing. Also,
the request for consent must be presented in a manner which is clearly distinguishable from the
other  matters,  in  an  intelligible  and  easily  accessible  form,  using  clear  and  plain  language.
Furthermore, the data subject must be informed of the right to withdraw consent at any time, in
just as simple a way as it was to grant consent.

According to Article 9 GDPR, consent is one of the exceptions from the general prohibition for
processing special categories of personal data. However, in such case the data subject’s consent
must be ‘explicit’22.

According to the EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, explicit consent
under the GDPR refers to the way consent is expressed by the data subject. It means that the data
subject should give an express statement of consent for specific processing purpose(s). An obvious
way to make sure consent is explicit would be to expressly confirm consent in a written statement.
Where appropriate, the controller could make sure the written statement is signed by the data
subject, in order to remove all possible doubt and potential lack of evidence in the future.

Under  no circumstances  can  consent  be  inferred  from  potentially  ambiguous  statements  or
actions. A controller must also beware that consent cannot be obtained through the same motion
as agreeing to a contract or accepting general terms and conditions of a service.

3.2 Consent under the PSD2

The EDPB notes that the legal framework regarding explicit consent is complex, since both the
PSD2 and the GDPR include the concept of ‘explicit consent’. This leads to the question whether
“explicit consent” as mentioned in Article 94 (2) PSD2 should be interpreted in the same way as
explicit consent under the GDPR.

21 Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, EDPB, para. 3.
22 See also Opinion 15/2011 on the definition of consent (WP 187), pp. 6-8, and/or Opinion 06/2014 on the
notion of legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC (WP 217), pp. 9, 10,
13 and 14.

Adopted

13

3.2.1 Explicit consent under Article 94 (2) PSD2

The PSD2  includes  a  number  of  specific  rules  concerning  the  processing  of  personal  data,  in
particular in Article 94 (1) of the PSD2, which determines that the processing of personal data for
the purposes of the PSD2 must comply with EU data protection law. Furthermore, Article 94 (2) of
the PSD2 sets out that payment service providers shall only access, process and retain personal
data  necessary  for  the  provision  of  their  payment  services,  with  the  explicit  consent  of  the
payment  service  user. Pursuant  to  Article  33  (2) of  the PSD2,  this  requirement  of  the  explicit
consent of the payment service user does not apply to AISPs. However, Article 67 (2)(a) of the PSD2
still provides for explicit consent for AISPs for the provision of the service.

As  mentioned above,  the list  of  lawful  bases  for  processing  under  the  GDPR is  exhaustive. As
mentioned in paragraph 14, the legal basis for the processing of personal data for the provision of
payment  services  is,  in  principle,  Article  6(1)(b)  of  the  GDPR,  meaning  that  the  processing  is
necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take
steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract. From that, it follows that
Article 94 (2) of the PSD2 cannot be regarded as an additional legal basis for processing of personal
data. The EDPB considers that, in view of the foregoing, this paragraph should be interpreted, on
the one hand, in coherence with the applicable data protection legal framework and, on the other
hand, in a way that preserves its useful effect. Explicit consent under Article 94(2) PSD2 should
therefore be regarded as an additional requirement of a contractual nature23 in relation to the
access to and subsequently processing and storage of personal data for the purpose of providing
payment services and is therefore not the same as (explicit) consent under the GDPR.

“Explicit consent” referred to in Article 94 (2) PSD2 is a contractual consent. This implies that Article
94 (2) PSD2 should be interpreted in the sense that when entering a contract with a payment
service provider under the PSD2, data subjects must be made fully aware of the specific categories
of  personal  data that  will be  processed.  Further,  they  have  to  be made  aware  of the  specific
(payment service) purpose for which their personal data will be processed and have to explicitly
agree to these clauses. Such clauses should be clearly distinguishable from the other matters dealt
with in the contract and would need to be explicitly accepted by the data subject.

Central to the notion of “explicit consent” under Article 94 (2) of the PSD2 is the gaining of access
to  personal  data  to  subsequently  process  and  store  these  data  for  the  purpose  of  providing
payment  services.  This  implies  that  the  payment  service24 provider  is  not  yet  processing  the
personal  data,  but  needs  access  to  personal  data  that  have  been processed  under  the
responsibility of any other controller. If a payment service user enters into a contract with, for
example, a payment initiation service provider, this provider needs to obtain access to personal
data of the payment service user that is being processed under the responsibility of the account
servicing payment service provider. The object of the explicit consent under Article 94 (2) PSD2 is
the permission to obtain access to those personal data, to be able to process and store these
personal  data that  are  necessary  for the  purpose of  providing  the  payment  service.  If  explicit
consent is given by the data subject, the account servicing payment service provider is obliged to
give access to the indicated personal data.

Although the consent of Article 94 (2) of the PSD2 is not a legal ground for the processing of
personal data, this consent is specifically related to personal data and data protection, and ensures

23 Letter of the EDPB regarding the PSD2 directive, 5 July 2018, page 4.
24 This applies to services 1 to 7 of Annex 1 of the PSD2.

Adopted

14

transparency and a degree of control for the payment service user25. While the PSD2 does not
specify the substantive conditions for consent under Article 94 (2) PSD2, it should, as stated above,
be understood in coherence with the applicable data protection legal framework and in a way that
preserves its useful effect.

With regard to the information to be provided by controllers and the requirement of transparency,
Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Transparency specifies that a “A central consideration of
the principle of transparency outlined in these provisions is that the data subject should be able to
determine in advance what the scope and consequences of the processing entails and that they
should not be taken by surprise at a later point about the ways in which their personal data has
been used”26.

Furthermore, as required by the principle of purpose limitation, personal data must be collected
for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes (Article 5 (1) (b) of the GDPR). Where personal data
are collected for more than one purpose, “controllers  should  avoid  identifying  only  one  broad
purpose  in  order  to  justify various  further  processing  activities  which  are  in  fact  only  remotely
related to the actual initial purpose”27. The EDPB has highlighted, most recently in the context of
contracts for online services, the risk of inclusion of general processing terms in contracts and has
stated that the purpose of the collection should be clearly and specifically identified: it should be
detailed enough to determine what kind of processing is and is not included within the specified
purpose,  and  to  allow  that  compliance  with  the  law  can  be  assessed  and  data  protection
safeguards applied28.

When considered in the context of the additional requirement of explicit consent pursuant to
Article 94(2) of the PSD2, this entails that controllers must provide data subjects with specific and
explicit  information  about  the  specific  purposes identified  by  the  controller for  which  their
personal data are accessed, processed and retained. In line with Article 94(2) of the PSD2, the data
subjects must explicitly accept these specific purposes.

Furthermore, as set out above in paragraph 10, the EDPB highlights that the payment service user
must be able to choose whether or not to use the service and cannot be forced to do so. Therefore,
the consent under Article 94 (2) of the PSD2 also has to be a freely given consent.

3.3 Conclusion

Explicit  consent  under  the  PSD2  is  different  from  (explicit)  consent  under  the  GDPR.  Explicit
consent under Article 94 (2) of the PSD2 is an additional requirement of a contractual nature.
When a payment service provider needs access to personal data for the provision of a payment
service, explicit consent in  line  with  Article  94  (2) of  the PSD2 of  the  payment  service  user  is
needed.

25 Art. 94 (2) PSD2 falls under Chapter 4 ‘Data protection’.
26 Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, paragraph 10 (adopted on
11 April 2018) - endorsed by the EDPB.
27 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation (WP203), page 16.
28 Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the
provision of online services to data subjects, paragraph 16 (public consultation version) and Article 29 Working
Party Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation (WP203), page 15–16.

Adopted

15

4 THE PROCESSING OF SILENT PARTY DATA

4.1 Silent party data

A data protection issue that needs careful consideration, is the processing of so called ‘silent party
data’. In the context of this document, silent party data are personal data concerning a data subject
who is not the user of a specific payment service provider, but whose personal data are processed
by that specific payment service provider for the performance of a contract between the provider
and the payment service user. This is for example the case where a payment service user, data
subject A, makes use of the services of an AISP, and data subject B has made a series of payment
transactions to the payment account of data subject A. In this case, data subject B is regarded as
the ‘silent party’ and the personal data (such as the account number of data subject B and the
amount of money that was involved in these transactions) relating to data subject B, is regarded
as ‘silent party data’.

4.2 The legitimate interest of the controller

Article 5 (1) (b) GDPR requires that personal data are only collected for specified, explicit and
legitimate purposes and may not be further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those
purposes. In addition, the GDPR requires that that any processing of personal data must be both
necessary as well as proportionate and in line with the data protection principles, such as those of
purpose limitation and data minimisation.

The GDPR may allow for the processing of silent party data when this processing is necessary for
purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by a controller or by a third party (Article 6 (1)(f)
GDPR). However, such processing can only take place when the legitimate interest of the controller
is not “overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which
require protection of personal data”.

A lawful basis for the processing of silent party data by PISPs and AISPs - in the context of the
provision of payment services under the PSD2 - could thus be the legitimate interest of a controller
or a third party to perform the contract with the payment service user. The necessity to process
personal data of the silent party is limited and determined by the reasonable expectations of these
data subjects. In the context of providing payment services that are covered by the PSD2, effective
and appropriate measures have to be established to safeguard that the interests or fundamental
rights and freedoms of the silent parties are not overridden, and to ensure that the reasonable
expectations of these data subjects regarding the processing of their personal data are respected.
In  this  respect, the  controller (AISP  or  PISP) has  to establish  the  necessary  safeguards for the
processing  in order  to  protect  the  rights of  data subjects. This  includes  technical measures  to
ensure that silent party data are not processed for a purpose other than the purpose for which the
personal data were originally collected by PISPs and AISPs. If feasible, also encryption or other
techniques should be applied to achieve an appropriate level of security and data minimisation.

4.3 Further processing of personal data of the silent party

As stated under paragraph 29, personal data processed in connection with a payment service
regulated by the PSD2, could be further processed based on legal obligations resting on the service
provider. These legal obligations could concern personal data of the silent party.

With regard to further processing of silent party data on the basis of legitimate interest, the EDPB
is of the opinion that these data cannot be used for a purpose other than that for which the
personal data have been collected, other on the basis of EU or Member State law. Consent of the

Adopted

16

silent party is legally not feasible, because in order to obtain consent, personal data of the silent
party would have to be collected or processed, for which no legal ground can be found under
Article 6 GDPR. The compatibility test of Article 6.4 of the GDPR cannot offer a ground for the
processing for other purposes (e.g. direct marketing activities) either. The rights and freedoms of
these silent party data subjects will not be respected if the new data controller uses the personal
data for other purposes, taking into account the context in which the personal data have been
collected, especially the absence of any relationship with the data subjects that are silent parties29;
the absence of any connection between any other purpose and the purpose for which the personal
data were initially collected (i.e. the fact that PSPs only need the silent party data in order to
perform a contract with the other contracting party); the nature of the personal data involved30,
the  circumstance  that  data  subjects  are  not  in  a position  to  reasonably expect  any  further
processing or to even be aware which controller may be processing their personal data and given
the legal restrictions on processing set out in Article 66 (3) (g) and Article 67 (2) (f) of PSD2.

29 Recital 87 of PSD2 states that PSD2 only concerns ‘contractual obligations and responsibilities between the
payment service user and the payment service provider’. Silent Party Data therefore do not fall under the
scope of PSD2.
30 Particular care should be taken when processing financial personal data, as the processing can be considered
as increasing the possible risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, according to the Guidelines on Data
Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA).

Adopted

17

5 THE PROCESSING OF SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF PERSONAL DATA

UNDER THE PSD2

5.1 Special categories of personal data

Article  9  (1)  GDPR  prohibits  the  processing of  “personal  data  revealing  racial or  ethnic origin,
political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing
of  genetic  data,  biometric  data  for  the  purpose  of uniquely  identifying  a  natural  person,  data
concerning health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation”.

It should be emphasised that in some Member States, electronic payments are already ubiquitous,
and are favoured by many people over cash in their day to day transactions. At the same time,
financial transactions can reveal sensitive information about an individual data subject, including
those related to special categories of personal data. For example, depending on the transaction
details, political opinions and religious beliefs may be revealed by donations made to political
parties or organisations, churches or parishes. Trade union membership may be revealed by the
deduction of an annual membership fee from a person’s bank account. Personal data concerning
health  may  be  gathered  from  analysing  medical  bills  paid  by  a  data  subject to  a  medical
professional  (for  instance  a  psychiatrist).  Finally,  information  on  certain  purchases  may  reveal
information concerning a person’s sex life or sexual orientation. As shown by these examples, even
single transactions can contain special categories of personal data. Moreover, account information
services might rely on profiling as defined by article 4 (4) of the GDPR. As previously stated in the
Working  Party  29  Guidelines  on  Automated  individual  decision-making  and  Profiling  for  the
purposes of Regulation 2016/679, as endorsed by the EDPB , “profiling can create special category
of data by inference from data which is not special category of data in its own right, but becomes
so when combined with other data.”31 This means that, through the sum of financial transactions,
different kinds of behavioural patterns can be revealed, which may include special categories of
personal  data. Therefore,  the  chances  are  considerable  that  a  service  provider  processing
information on financial transactions of data subjects also processes special categories of personal
data.

With regard to the term ‘sensitive payment data’, the EDPB notes the following. The definition of
sensitive payment data in the PSD2 differs considerably from the way the term ‘sensitive personal
data’ is commonly used within the context of the GDPR and data protection (law). Where the PSD2
defines ‘sensitive payment data’ as ‘data, including personalized security credentials which can be
used to carry out fraud’, the GDPR emphasises the need for specific protection of special categories
of personal data which under Article 9 of the GDPR are, by their nature, particularly sensitive in
relation to fundamental rights and freedoms, such as special categories of personal data32. In this
regard it is recommended to at least map out and categorize precisely what kind of personal data
will be processed. Most probably a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) will be required in
accordance with article 35 GDPR, which will help in this mapping exercise. More guidance on DPIAs
can be found in the Working Party 29 Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and
determining whether processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation

31 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Guidelines on Automated individual decision-making and Profiling
for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, WP251rev.01, page 15.
32 For example, in recital 10 of the GDPR, special categories of personal data are being referred to as ‘sensitive
data’.

Adopted

18

2016/679, as endorsed by the EDPB.

5.2 Possible derogations

The prohibition of Article 9 GDPR is not absolute. In particular, whereas derogations of paragraphs
(b)-(f) and (h)-(j) of Article 9 (2) GDPR are manifestly not applicable to the processing of personal
data in the PSD2 context, the following two derogations in Article 9 (2) GDPR could be considered:

The prohibition does not apply if the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of
those personal data for one or more specified purposes (Article 9 (2) (a) GDPR).

The  prohibition  does  not apply if  the  processing  is necessary  for  reasons  of  substantial  public
interest, on the basis of Union or Member State law which shall be proportionate to the aim
pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific
measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject (Article 9 (2)
(g) GDPR).

It  should  be  pointed  out  that  the  list  of  derogations  in  Article  9  (2)  GDPR  is  exhaustive.  The
possibility that special categories of personal data are included in the personal data processed for
the provision of any of the services falling under the PSD2 must be recognised by the service
provider. As the prohibition of Article 9 (1) GDPR is applicable to these service providers, they must
ensure  that  one  of  the  exceptions  in  Article  9  (2)  GDPR  is  applicable  to  them.  It  should  be
emphasised that where the service provider cannot show that one of the derogations is met, the
prohibition of article 9 (1) is applicable.

5.3 Substantial public interest

Payments services may process special categories personal data for reasons of substantial public
interest, but only when all the conditions of Article 9 (2) (g) of the GDPR are met. This means that
the  processing  of  the  special  categories  of  personal  data has  to  be  addressed  in  a  specific
derogation to article 9 (1) GDPR in Union or Member State law. This provision will have to address
the  proportionality  in  relation  to  the  pursued  aim  of  the  processing  and  contain  suitable  and
specific  measures  to  safeguard  the  fundamental  rights  and  the  interests  of  the  data  subject.
Furthermore, this provision under Union or Member State law will have to respect the essence of
the right to data protection. Finally, the processing of the special categories of data must also be
demonstrated to be necessary for the reason of the substantial public interest, including interests
of systemic importance. Only when all of these conditions are fully met, this derogation could be
made applicable to designated types of payment services.

5.4 Explicit consent

In cases where the derogation of article 9 (2) (g) GDPR does not apply, obtaining explicit consent
in accordance with the conditions for valid consent in the GDPR, seems to remain the only possible
lawful derogation to process special categories of personal data by TPPs. The EDPB Guidelines
05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679 states33 that: “Article 9(2) does not recognize
“necessary for the performance of a contract” as an exception to the general prohibition to process
special categories of data. Therefore, controllers and Member States that deal with this situation
should  explore  the  specific  exceptions  in  Article  9(2)  subparagraphs  (b)  to  (j).  When  service
providers rely on Article 9 (2) (a) GDPR, they must ensure that they have been granted explicit

33 Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, EDPB, para. 99

Adopted

19

consent before commencing the processing.” Explicit consent as set out in Article 9 (2) (a) GDPR
must meet all the requirements of the GDPR.

5.5 No suitable derogation

As noted above, where the service provider cannot show that one of the derogations is met, the
prohibition of Article 9 (1) is applicable. In this case technical measures could be put in place to
prevent the processing  of  special  categories  of  personal  data,  for  instance  by  preventing  the
processing  of  certain  data points. In  this  respect, payment  service  providers may explore  the
technical possibilities to exclude special categories of personal data and allow a selected access
which would prevent the processing of special categories of personal data related to silent parties
by TPPs.

Adopted

20

6 DATA MINIMISATION, SECURITY, TRANSPARANCY,

ACCOUNTABILITY AND PROFILING

6.1 Data minimisation and data protection by design and default

The principle of data minimisation is enshrined in Article 5 (1) (c) GDPR: “Personal data shall be […]
adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed”. Essentially, under the principle of data minimisation, controllers should process no
more personal data than what is necessary in order to achieve the specific purpose in question. As
pointed out in Chapter 2, the amount and the kind of personal data necessary to provide the
payment service is determined by the objective and mutually understood contractual purpose34.
Data  minimisation is  applicable to  every  processing  (e.g.  every  collection  of  or  access  to  and
request of personal data). The EDPB Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25 Data Protection by Design
and by Default (DPbDD), state that ‘processors and technology providers are also recognised as
key enablers for DPbDD, they should also be aware that  controllers  are  required  to  only  process
personal  data  with  systems  and technologies that have built-in data protection35.’

Article 25 of the GDPR contains the obligations to apply data protection by design and by default.
These obligations are of particular importance to the principle of data minimisation. This Article
determines  that controllers shall,  both  at  the  time  of  the  determination  of  the  means  for
processing  and  at  the  time  of the  processing  itself,  implement  appropriate  technical  and
organisational  measures,  which are  designed  to  implement  data  protection  principles in  an
effective manner and to integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing in order to meet
the  requirements  of  the  GDPR  and  protect  the  rights  of  data  subjects.  The  controller  shall
implement appropriate technical and organisational measures for ensuring that, by default, only
personal data which are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing are processed. That
obligation applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of their processing, the
period  of  their  storage  and  their  accessibility.  These  measures  may  include  encryption,
pseudonymisation and other technical measures.

When the  obligation  of  article  25  of  the  GDPR  is  applied, the  state  of  the  art,  the  cost  of
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of
varying likelihood and severity for rights and freedoms of natural persons posed by the processing
are the elements that have to be taken into account. Further clarifications about this obligation
are given in the abovementioned EDPB Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25 Data Protection by Design
and by Default.

6.2 Data minimisation measures

The TPP accessing payment account data in order to provide the requested services must also take
the principle of data minimisation into account and must only collect personal data necessary to
provide the specific payment services requested by the payment service user. As a principle, the
access to the personal data should be limited to what is necessary for the provision of payment
services. As has been shown in Chapter 2, the PSD2 requires ASPSPs to share payment service user
information on request of the payment service user, when the payment service user wishes to use
a payment initiation service or an account information service.

34 Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the
provision of online services to data subjects, EDPB, para 32
35 Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25 Data Protection by Design and by Default, page 29.

Adopted

21

When not all payment account data are necessary for the provision of the contract, a selection of
the  relevant  data  categories should be  made  by  the  AISP  before  the  data  are  collected. For
instance, data categories that may not be necessary may include the identity of the silent party
and the transaction characteristics. Also, unless required by Member State or EU law, the IBAN of
the silent party’s bank account may not need to be displayed.

In this respect, the possible application of technical measures that enable or support TPPs in their
obligation to access and retrieve only the personal data necessary for the provision of their services
could be considered, as part of the implementation of appropriate data protection policies, in line
with article 24 (2) GDPR. In this respect, the EDPB recommends the usage of digital tools in order
to  support  AISPs  in  their  obligation  to  only collect personal  data  that  are  necessary  for  the
purposes for which they are processed. For instance, when a service provider does not need the
transaction characteristics (in the description field of the transaction records) for the provision of
their service, a digital selection tool could function as a means for TPPs to exclude this field from
the overall processing operations by the TPP.

Example 2:
HappyPayments, our Account Information Service provider from example 1, wants to ensure that it
only processes the personal payment account data which its users are interested in. To seek access
to more payment account data would not be necessary for the provision of the service. Therefore,
it allows the users to select the specific types of information they are interested in.
User A wants an overview of its spending for the last two months. Thus, it asks for its two banking
accounts, held with two different ASPSPs, the information on all transactions of the last two months,
the transaction amount, the date of execution and the recipient’s name, and ticks the corresponding
boxes in HappyPayments’ user interface.
HappyPayments  then  commences  to  request  from  the  respective  ASPSPs only  the  information
corresponding to the fields set by User A and only for the period of the last two months. Information
such as the “communication” of the transfer or even the IBAN are not requested, as User A did not
ask for this information.
To  allow  HappyPayments  to  comply  with  its  data  minimisation  obligations,  the  ASPSPs  allow
HappyPayments to request specific fields for a range of dates.

It should also be noted in this regard that under the PSD2, ASPSPs are only allowed to provide
access to payment account information. There is no legal basis under the PSD2 to provide access
with  regard  to personal  data contained  in other accounts,  such  as  savings,  mortgages  or
investment accounts. Accordingly, under the PSD2, technical measures have to be implemented
to ensure that access is limited to the necessary payment account information.

Besides collecting as little data as possible, the service provider also has to implement limited
retention periods. Personal data should not be stored by the service provider for a period longer
than is necessary in relation to the purposes requested by the payment service user.

If the contract between the data subject and the AISP requires the transmission of personal data
to third parties, then only those personal data that are necessary for the execution of the contract
can be transmitted. Data subjects should also be specifically informed about the transmission and
the personal data that are going to be transmitted to this third party.

6.3 Security

Adopted

22

The EDPB already highlighted that the violation of financial personal data “clearly involves serious
impacts in the data subject’s daily life” and quotes the risks of payment fraud as an example36.

Where a data breach involves financial data, the data subject may be exposed to considerable
risks. Depending on the information that is leaked, data subjects may be exposed to a risk of
identity theft, of theft of the funds in their accounts and other assets. Furthermore, there is the
possibility that the  exposure  of  transaction  data  is  related  to  considerable  privacy  risks,  as
transaction data may contain references to all aspects of a data subject’s private life. At the same
time, financial data are obviously valuable to criminals and therefore an attractive target.

As controllers, payment service providers are obligated to take adequate measures to protect the
personal  data  of  data  subjects  (Article 24  (1)  GDPR).  The  higher  the  risks  associated  with  the
processing activity carried out by the controller, the higher the security standards that need to be
applied. As the processing of financial data is connected to a variety of severe risks, the security
measures should be accordingly high.

Service  providers  should  be  held  to  high  standards,  including  strong  customer  authentication
mechanisms and high security standards for the technical equipment37. Other procedures, such as
vetting  processors  for  security  standards  and  implementing  procedures  against  unauthorised
access, are also important.

6.4 Transparency and accountability

Transparency and accountability are two fundamental principles of the GDPR.

With regard to transparency (Article 5 (1)(a) of the GDPR), Article 12 of the GDPR specifies that
controllers shall take appropriate measures to provide any information referred to in Articles 13
and  14 GDPR.  Furthermore,
it requires  that  the  information  or  communication about  the
processing of personal data must be concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible. The
information must be in clear and plain language and in writing “or by other means, including where
appropriate, by electronic means”. The Article 29 Working Party ‘Guidelines on transparency under
Regulation 2016/679’, as endorsed by the EDPB, offers specific guidance for compliance with the
principle of transparency in digital environments.

According to the abovementioned Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, Article
11 GDPR should be interpreted as a way of enforcing genuine data minimisation without hindering
the exercise of data subject rights, and that the exercise of data subject rights should be made
possible  with  the  help  of  additional  information  provided  by  the  data  subject. There  may  be
situations  where  a  data  controller  is  processing  personal  data  which  does  not  require  the
identification of a data subject (for example with pseudonymised data). In such cases, Article 11.1
may also be relevant as it states that a data controller shall not be obliged to maintain, acquire or
process  additional  information  in  order  to  identify  the  data  subject  for  the  sole  purposes  of
complying with the GDPR.

For the services under the PSD2, Article 13 GDPR is applicable for the personal data collected from
the data subject and Article 14 is applicable where personal data have not been obtained from the
data subject.

36 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether
processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, WP248 rev.01 - endorsed
by the EDPB.
37 See the RTS.

Adopted

23

In particular, the data subject has to be informed about the period for which the personal data will
be  stored,  or  if  that  is  not  possible,  the  criteria  used  to  determine  that  period,  and  where
applicable, the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a possible third party. Where
processing is based on consent as referred to in Article 6(1) (a) GDPR or explicit consent as referred
to in Article 9(2) (a) GDPR, the data subject has to be informed of the existence of the right to
withdraw consent at any time.

The controller  shall  provide  the  information to  the data  subject,  having  regard  to  the  specific
circumstances in which the personal data are processed. If the personal data are to be used for
communication  with  the  data  subject38,  which  will  probably  will  be  the  case  for AISPs,  the
information has to be provided at the latest at the time of the first communication to that data
subject. If personal  data  are  to  be disclosed to  another  recipient, the  information  has  to  be
provided at the latest when the personal data are first disclosed.

With regard to online payment services, the abovementioned Guidelines clarify that a layered
approach may be followed by data controllers where they opt to use a combination of methods to
ensure transparency. It is in particularly recommended that layered privacy statements/ notices
should be used to link to the various categories of information which must be provided to the data
subject, rather than displaying all such information in a single notice on a screen, in order to avoid
information fatigue, and at the same time ensuring the effectiveness of the information.

The abovementioned Guidelines also clarify that controllers may choose to use additional tools to
provide  information  to  the  individual  data  subject,  such  as  privacy  dashboards. A  privacy
dashboard is a single point from which data subjects can view ‘privacy information’ and manage
their privacy preferences by allowing or preventing their data from being used in certain ways by
the controller in question39. A privacy dashboard could provide an overview of the TPPs that have
obtained the data subjects explicit consent, and could also offer relevant information on the nature
and amount of personal data that has been accessed by TPPs. In principle, an ASPSP may offer the
user the possibility to withdraw a specific explicit PSD2 consent40 through the overview, which
would result in a denial of access to their payment accounts to one or more TPPs. The user could
also request an ASPSP to deny access to their payment account(s) to one or more particular TPPs41,
as  it  is  the  right  of  the user to  (not)  make  use  of  an  account  information  service. If  privacy
dashboards are used in order to give or withdraw an explicit consent, they should be designed and
applied lawfully and in particular prevent creating obstacles to the TPPs right to provide services
in accordance with the PSD2. In this respect and in accordance with the applicable provisions under
the PSD2, a TPP has the possibility to obtain explicit consent from the user again after this consent
has been withdrawn.

The  accountability  principles requires  the  controller  to lay  down appropriate  technical  and
organisational measures to ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in

38 Art. 14 (3) (b) of the GDPR.
39 According to the Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679 - endorsed
by the EDPB, privacy dashboards are particularly useful when the same service is used by data subjects on a
variety of different devices as they give them access to and control over their personal data no matter how they
use the service. Allowing data subjects to manually adjust their privacy settings via a privacy dashboard can also
make  it  easier  for  a  privacy  statement/  notice  to  be  personalised  by  reflecting  only  the  types  of  processing
occurring for that particular data subject.
40 See for example the ‘explicit consent’ mentioned in Article 67 (2) (a) of the PSD2.
41 See also EBA/OP/2020/10, paragraph 45

Adopted

24

accordance with the GDPR, in particular with the main data protection principles provided for by
Article 5 (1). Those measures should take into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of
the processing and the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, and must be reviewed
and updated when necessary42.

6.5 Profiling

The processing of personal data by payment service providers may entail ‘profiling’ as referred to
in Article 4 (4) of the GDPR. For example, AISPs could rely on automated processing of personal
data in order to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person. A data subject’s
personal financial situation could be evaluated, depending on the specifics of the service. Account
information services, to be provided as requested by users, may involve an extensive evaluation
of personal payment account data.

The  controller  also  has  to  be  transparent  to  the  data  subject  on  the  existence  of  automated
decision-making,  including  profiling. In  those  cases,  the  controller  has  to  provide  meaningful
information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences
of such processing for the data subject (Article 13(2) (f) and Article 14 (2) (g) and recital 60)43.
Likewise,  under  Article  15  of  the  GDPR  the  data  subject  has the right  to request  and obtain
information  from the  controller  about the  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  including
profiling,  the  logic  involved  and  the  consequences  for  the  data  subject, and,  in  certain
circumstances, a right to object to profiling, regardless of whether solely automated individual
decision-making based on profiling takes place44.

Furthermore, what is also relevant in this context is the right of the data subject not to be subject
to  a  decision  based  solely  on  automated  processing,  including  profiling,  which  produces  legal
effects concerning him or her or similarly significantly affecting him or her, provided for by Article
22 of GDPR. This norm also includes, in certain circumstances, the need for data controllers to
implement suitable measures to safeguard the data subject’s rights such as specific information to
the data subject, the right to obtain human intervention in the decision making and to express his
or her point of view and contest the decision. As also stated in recital 71 of GDPR this means, inter
alia, that data subjects have the right not to be subject to a decision, such as automatic refusal of
an online credit application without any human intervention45.

Automated decision-making, including profiling that involves special categories of personal data is
only allowed under the cumulative conditions of Article 22(4) GDPR:

-

-

there is an applicable Article 22(2) exemption;

and paragraph (a) or (g) of Article 9(2) GDPR applies. In both cases, the controller shall put in
place suitable measures to safeguard the data subject’s rights and freedoms and legitimate
interests46.

The requirements for further processing, as stated in these guidelines, should also be observed.
The clarifications and instructions on automated individual decision-making and profiling given by

42 Art. 5(2) and Art. 24 GDPR.
43 Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, WP 260 rev.01 - endorsed by the EDPB
44 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Automated individual decision-making and Profiling for the purposes
of Regulation 2016/679, WP251rev.01
45 Recital 71 GDPR.
46 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Automated individual decision-making and Profiling for the purposes
of Regulation 2016/679, WP251rev.01, page 24.

Adopted

25

the Working Party 29 Guidelines on Automated individual decision-making and Profiling for the
purposes of Regulation 2016/679, as endorsed by the EDPB, are fully relevant in the context of
payment services and should therefore be duly considered.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

26

