Opinion 38/2021 on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Latvia regarding the approval of the
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR)

Adopted on 20 November 2021

Adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2

3
4

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................4
2.1
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ...............................4
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines)
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ...........5
PREFIX .............................................................................................................................6
2.2.1
GENERAL REMARKS.........................................................................................................6
2.2.2
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ...........................................................7
2.2.3
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................9
2.2.4
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS.............................................................................................10
2.2.5
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.....................................................................13
2.2.6
FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS .......................................................................13
2.2.7
Conclusions / Recommendations.................................................................................................13
Final Remarks ...............................................................................................................................15

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body.
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies).

(2)  With  reference  to  Article  43 GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements.

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise
of accredited certification bodies.

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism.

(5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

3

Adopted

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which
will contribute to consistency.2

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the
complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

The Latvian SA (hereinafter “LV SA”) has submitted its draft accreditation requirements under Article
43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 5 October 2021. The LV national accreditation
body  (NAB)  will  perform  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  to  certify  using  GDPR  certification
criteria. This means that the NAB will use ISO 17065 and the additional requirements set up by the LV
SA,  once  they  are  approved  by  the LV  SA,  following  an  opinion  from  the  Board  on  the  draft
requirements, to accredit certification bodies.

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the LV SA has decided to resort
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when
issuing accreditation.

3.

This  assessment  of  the  LV  SA’s  additional  accreditation  requirements  is  aimed  at  examining  on
variations (additions or deletions) from the Guidelines and notably their Annex 1. Furthermore, the

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en

Available 

par. 

39. 

at:

Adopted

4

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

EDPB’s Opinion is also focused on all aspects that may impact on a consistent approach regarding the
accreditation of certification bodies.

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as
required by the SA’s context.

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements.
However,  the Board considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and
review as required.

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights,
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard,
without, however, reproducing the text.

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the LV
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and
not asking the LV SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the LV SA, which are outside the scope of article
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be
assessed consistently:

a. addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering

any deviation from the Annex.

b.

c.

independence of the certification body

conflicts of interests of the certification body

d. expertise of the certification body

e. appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied

by the certification body

f.

g.

procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and

transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification.

9.

Taking into account that:

Adopted

5

a. Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the
accreditation of certification bodies itself;

d. Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant
to Article 43(3);

e.

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority
must also be applied;

f. Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body;

the Board is of the opinion that:

2.2.1 PREFIX

10.

11.

12.

13.

The Board acknowledges the fact that terms of cooperation regulating the relationship between a
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and
transparency,  the  Board considers  that  such  terms of  cooperation,  where existing,  shall  be made
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.

2.2.2 GENERAL REMARKS

The Board notes that section “terms and definitions” states that definitions of the GDPR as interpreted
in the relevant EDPB Guidelines take precedence over those of ISO/IEC 17065. The EDPB welcomes
this clarification. However, some of the definitions in section “abbreviations” and in the draft itself do
not correspond to the definitions used for the same concepts in the GDPR and the Guidelines. Thus, it
is unclear what is the relationship between some of those terms and the definitions in the GDPR and
Guidelines  (e.g.  definition  of  “accreditation”,  reference  to  certification program instead  of
certification criteria in section 4.6.1.1). Therefore, the EDPB recommends the LV SA to ensure that the
terms  defined  in  the  GDPR  and/or  the  Guidelines  are  reflected  consistently  in  the  accreditation
requirements.

The  Board  notes  that  the  requirements  should  be  drafted  in  a  prescriptive  manner.  Thus,  the
requirements should avoid the word “should” and rather use “shall” or “must”. The EDPB encourages
the LV SA to make the necessary changes in this regard (e.g. in sections 4.3.1 and 7.5.2).

The Board also notes that some of the terms used in the requirements should be clarified and clear
and  consistent  wording should  be used  thorough  the  document  (e.g.  replace 
in  section
6

Adopted

“abbreviations”,  the  reference  to  “accreditation plan” with  “accreditation procedure”; replace
“accreditation criteria” in section 7.1.2 with “certification criteria”; amend the reference to “full or
partial compliance with the GDPR” in the definition of “subject of certification”, since it may lead to
misunderstandings -for example, the definition provided in paragraph 58 of the Guidelines could be
used;  replace  “certification  object”  in  section  7.8.2.1  with  “subject  of  certification”;  ensure  a
consistent use of terms in section 7.13 regarding the handling of complaints, instead of using different
concepts  with  the  same  meaning,  such  as  “examination  of  complaints”,  “review  of  complaints”,
“complaint handling”;). The EDPB encourages the LV SA to amend the referred concepts and ensure
that clear and consistent wording is used thorough the document.

In addition, the LV SA’s draft requirements use the term “client” to identify both the applicant seeking
certification  and  the  certified  entity.  The  Board  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  either  use  the  terms
“applicant” and “client” as they are used in Annex 1 of the guidelines on accreditation or to add a note
that “client” is being used as identifying both applicant and certified entity.

Finally, the EDPB encourages the LV SA to add the specific reference to the EDPB Guidelines mentioned
in the section “terms and definitions”. This could be done, for example, by adding a footnote with the
complete title and reference number of the guidelines.

2.2.3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION

Concerning section 4.1.1 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Legal responsibility”), the
Board  considers  that  the  obligation  of  certification  bodies  to  have  up  to  date  procedures  that
demonstrate compliance with the legal responsibilities set out in the terms of accreditation should be
explicitly included in the accreditation requirements. Moreover, the certification body shall be able to
demonstrate evidence of GDPR compliant procedures and measures specifically for controlling and
handling client organisation’s personal data as part of the certification process. Therefore, the Board
recommends the LV SA to amend the draft requirements accordingly.

14.

15.

16.

17. With regard to section 4.1.1 (“Legal responsibility”), the Board is of the opinion that the certification
body should confirm to the accreditation body not only that fact that they are not subject of any
investigation  or 
inspection  by  the  LV  SA,  but  also  that  they  were  not  subject  of  such
investigation/regulatory action in the past. Therefore, the Board encourages the LV SA to clarify this
matter.

18.

The EDPB notes that section 4.1.2.7 of the LV SA’s draft requirements states: “that the Certification
Body is allowed to disclose to the DSI all necessary information related to the reasons for granting the
certification3”. The Board underlines that such requirement should be read in line with the Annex,
which requires to provide “all information necessary for granting certification” (see point 7 section
4.1.2 Annex).

19. With regard to the certification agreement (section 4.1.2), the Board notes that the first point does
not include the obligation of the client to also comply with the general certification requirements
within the meaning of 4.1.2.2 lit. a ISO 17065, as stated in the Annex. The Board encourages the LV SA
to include such reference.

3In conformity with Articles 43(5) and 42(8) of the GDPR.

Adopted

7

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

The Board observes that the explicit reference to the tasks and powers of the competent SA (3rd
indent  in  section  4.1.2  of  the  Annex)  is  not  included  in  subsection  4.1.2.3  of  the  LV  SAs’  draft
accreditation requirements. The Board is of the opinion that this reference should be added in the
draft requirements and, therefore, it recommends the LV SAs to amend the draft accordingly.

Regarding section 4.1.2.6, the Board considers that it should specify that the certification agreement
should contain the rules for validity, renewal and withdrawal, and the rules setting the intervals for
re-evaluation or review, and recommends the LV SA to amend the draft accordingly.

In addition, section 4.1.2.9 states that the certification agreement will include the client’s obligation
to provide measures to review the complaints. However, according to the Annex, the certification
agreement itself should include the structure and the procedure for complaint management as well as
the necessary precautions for the investigation of complaints. Therefore, the EDPB recommends to
amend the draft in order to include the above-mentioned references.

The Board notes that section 4.1.2.10 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“certification
agreement”)  include  the  obligation  to  specify  in  the  certification  agreement  “What  are  the
consequences  in  case  of  revocation  or  suspension  of  the  accreditation  of  the  Certification  Body,
including the impact on the client and its certification”. In this regard, section 4.1.2 par. 9 of the Annex
establishes that the consequences for the customer in those cases shall be addressed. The Board
understands that the intention of the LV SA is to ensure that the client is aware of the consequences
in those situations and of the potential options or actions that can be taken. However, the Board
considers  that,  in  order  to  ensure  that  certification  agreements  accurately  reflect  not  only  the
consequences  and  impact  on  the  clients,  but  also  the potential  further  actions,  the  LV  SA’s
accreditation  requirements  should  make  clear  that  simply  listing  the  consequences  without
addressing the potential next steps won’t be sufficient. Thus, the EDPB encourages the LV SA to make
clear that the customer should be aware of the consequences, the impact they have on them and the
potential next steps that may be taken.

In addition, the Board notes that, according to the Annex, the applicant has to inform the certification
body of significant changes in its actual or legal situation and in its products, processes and services
concerned by the certification (10th indent in section 4.1.2 of the Annex). Section 4.1.2.11 of the LV
SA’s draft requirements refer to changes in the client’s products, processes and services covered by
the certification, without any mention to significant changes in its actual or legal situation”. The Board
encourages  the  LV  SA  to  include  a  reference  to  significant  changes  in  the  client’s  actual  or  legal
situation.

Additionally,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  section  4.1.2.11 of  the  LV  SA’s  draft  accreditation
requirements, regarding  the  obligation  of  the  applicant  to  inform  the  certification  body  of
infringements of the GDPR and of other data protection legislation, should be clarified. The Board
considers  that  this  obligation  should  not  lead  to  self-incrimination  and,  therefore,  the  obligation
should refer to infringements established by the LV SA and/or judicial authorities. Thus, the Board
recommends the LV SA make such clarification. Moreover, in order to avoid confusion, the Board
encourages the LV SA to clarify that “infringements” refer to infringements of the GDPR or other data
protection certification that may affect certification.

26. With  regard  to  section  4.2  of  the  LV  SA’s  draft accreditation  requirements  (management  of
impartiality), the Board notes the obligation to lay down rules preventing conflicts of interest. The
Board  acknowledges  the  importance  to  have  requirements  that  ensure,  firstly,  that  there  are  no
conflicts of interests and, secondly, in case conflicts of interest are identified, that the certification
8

Adopted

27.

28.

29.

body manages them. Therefore, the Board encourages the LV SA to clarify that, in addition to having
rules preventing conflicts, there should be clear rules to manage identified conflicts of interests.

In addition, the Board encourages the LV SA to provide examples of situations where a certification
body has no relevant connection with the customer it assesses. For example, the certification body
should not belong to the same company group nor should be controlled in any way by the customer
it assesses.

Regarding section 4.6.1 (“Publicly available information”), the Board notes the obligation to make the
information publicly available. In order to ensure transparency and easy access to such information,
the Board recommends to clarify that the information should be made easily publicly available.

The Board also considers that, in section 4.6.1.3, the reference to publishing the period of validity of
the certifications only “if possible” should be amended. Indeed, the Board is of the opinion that an
indication of the general period of validity should be always possible. Thus, the Board encourages the
LV SA to replace “if possible” by “generally”.

2.2.4 RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS

30. With regard to the expertise of the certification body (section 6 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation
requirements), the Board considers that several of the general requirements of section 6.1 of the
Annex are not covered. In particular, points 1, 2 with regard to ongoing expertise, 4, 5 and 6 are
missing. Thus, the Board recommends the LV SA to amend the draft accordingly, so as to include the
missing elements.

31.

Regarding the specific requirements of personnel with technical and legal expertise, the Board notes
that the distinction between the two types of personnel is unclear in the draft LV SA’s accreditation
requirements. Moreover, there isn’t a clear difference between personnel in charge of certification
decisions and personnel responsible for evaluations. The Board considers that, given the different
tasks and responsibilities of the technical and legal personnel, as well as the personnel in charge of
decision-making and personnel in charge of evaluations, a clearer distinction should be drawn with
regard to the different type of education and experience required to the different types of personnel.
Therefore,  the  EDPB  recommends  the  LV  SA  to  redraft  the  section  clearly  distinguishing  the
requirements applicable to legal personnel and to technical personnel, and to decision-makers and
evaluators. If some of the requirements are applicable to both, it should be clearly stated as well. In
this regard, the Board is of the opinion that evaluators should have a more specialist expertise and
professional  experience  in  technical  procedures  (e.g.  audits  and  certifications),  whereas  decision-
makers should have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data
protection.  Considering  this,  the  Board  encourages  the  LV  SA  to  take  into  account  the  different
substantive knowledge and/or experience requirements for evaluators and decision-makers.

32.

Finally, the Board notes that the LV SA’s draft requirements refer to the “Client’s staff” (e.g. sections
6.1.1  and  6.1.2).  The  Board  underlines  that the  accreditation  requirements  should  focus  on  the
requirements for the certification body’s personnel and, therefore, recommends the LV SA to amend
the draft, tailoring the requirements to the certification body’s personnel and erasing any references
to the client’s personnel.

Adopted

9

2.2.5 PROCESS REQUIREMENTS

33.

Concerning section 7.1 of the LV SAs’ draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that there is
no  explicit  reference  to  the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  comply  with  the  additional
requirements. Even though such obligation could be inferred from the text of the draft requirements,
the Board considers that an explicit reference to the above-mentioned obligation should be included.
Therefore, the Board recommends the LV SAs to amend the draft accordingly.

34. With  regard  to  sections  7.1.2.2  and  7.1.2.3,  the  Board  understands,  based  on  the  explanations
provided by the LV SA, that they refer to the approval of certification criteria in accordance with Art
42(5) GPDR. In order to avoid confusion as to the role of the LV SA in this regard, the EDPB encourages
the LV SA to redraft the sections. For example, section 7.1.2.2 could state that the certification body
“has received an approval decision regarding the certification criteria during the certification process,
in accordance with Art. 42(5) GDPR” and section 7.1.2.3 could state “requests a new approval from
the LV SA of the certification criteria when they are substantially changed”.

35.

36.

Section 7.1.3 states that “If the Certification Body intends to operate in other Member States, it shall
obtain the necessary approval from the relevant supervisory authorities or apply for a European Data
Protection  Seal  in  accordance  with  Article  42(5)  of  the  GDPR.”  The  EDPB  notes that,  even  when
operating  an  EU  Data  Protection  Seal,  the  certification  body  has  to  notify  the  concerned  SAs
beforehand. The EDPB recommends that such clarification be added in the requirements.

Concerning section 7.1.4 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes note of the
additional requirement whereby a certification body shall investigate the client “for violations of the
legal  regime  of  personal  data  protection  when  the  client  declares  that  he/she  is  subject  to  an
investigation by the LV SA or the LV SA informs the Certification Body about the investigation”. It should
be clear that such investigation should be linked with the scope of certification and the target of
evaluation. Additionally, it should be clear that the investigation refers to the certification holder and
not  to  the  applicant.  Therefore,  the  Board recommends that  the  LV  SA  amend  its  requirement
accordingly, by specifying that the investigation should be linked with the scope of certification and
the target of evaluation and by clarifying that the investigation refers to the certification holder.

37.

The  Board  notes  that  section  7.2  of  the  LV  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“application”)
contains a reference to the controller/processor contract(s) and their specific arrangements. While
acknowledging that the LV SA has used the wording of the Annex, the Board encourages the LV SA to
include a reference to joint controllers and their specific arrangements.

38. With regard to section 7.4.1.2, the Board notes that the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements
include a reference to the assessment of the risks, but do not mention a method for evaluating the
coverage and composition thereof. Hence, the Board encourages the LV SA to include the above-
mentioned references, in line with the Annex.

39.

Concerning section 7.4.1.4, the Board notes that the LV SA’s draft requirements establish that the
certification  body  shall  demonstrate  “how  it  is  ensured  that  comparable  methods  are  used  in
evaluation  and  monitoring  mechanisms,  in comparable  situations”.  The  Board  considers  that,  for
reasons of accuracy and clarity, the requirements should explicitly mention the obligation that the
evaluations methods are standardized and generally applicable, and encourages the LV SA to make
such addition.

Adopted

10

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47.

In addition, the Board notes section 7.4.1.3 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements does not
mention the guarantees and safeguards as one of the elements to be included in the method for
assessing the remedies, as stated in the Annex. In addition, the Board notes that paragraph 1, indent
4th  of  section  7.4  of  the  Annex  refers  to  having  a  documentation  of  methods  and  findings.  This
reference is missing in the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements. Hence, the Board encourages the
LV SA to include the above-mentioned references, in line with the Annex.

In addition, the EDPB recommends the LV SA to include the obligation of the CB to justify any deviation
from the procedure referred in the previous paragraph, in line with the Annex.

Furthermore, the Board notes that the use of external experts contracted by the certification body is
foreseen  in  the  LV  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements.  The  Board  considers  that  the  draft
accreditation  requirements  should  explicitly  state  that  the  certification  body  will  retain  the
responsibility  for  the  decision-making,  even  when  it  uses  external  experts.  Therefore,  the  Board
recommends the LV SA to amend the draft accordingly.

In addition, the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements mistakenly refer to certification body as “the
Client” or  “the  Tenderer” in  sections  7.4.3,  7.4.4  and  7.4.5 regarding  subcontractors. The  Board
understands that such references are due to a translation mishap. However, given the significance of
the implications of referring to the client in those specific sections, the Board recommends that the
references to “the client” be replaced by “the certification body” in section 7.4.3, 7.4.4 and 7.4.5 and
that section 7.4.5 be amended in order to clarify the references to the client (for example, it could
state “The Certification Body shall submit to the DSI a procedure specifying the significance of the
compliance of the client with other certification [...]”).

Regarding section 7.4.5.1.3 on the validity of the certification, the Board recommends the LV SA to
clarify that the duration of validity of the GDPR certification must not be conditional upon the validity
of other types of certifications.

Regarding section 7.4.8 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board considers that the
LV SA’s draft requirements should include the obligation of the certification body to set out in detail
in its certification mechanism how the information required in item 7.4.6 ISO/IEC 17065/2012 shall be
provided to the applicant about non conformities from a certification mechanism. Thus, the Board
recommends the LV SA to include such obligation.

Regarding section 7.6.2 (“Certification decision”), the draft accreditation requirements include the
obligation of the certification body to inform the LV SA prior to granting the certification. Based on
the  explanations  provided  by  the  LV  SA,  the  Board  understands  that  the  intention  is  to  increase
transparency and it does not entail a supervision of the draft approval. The Board encourages the LV
SA to include a clarification in that sense.

Section 7.6.3 establishes the obligation of the certification body to make sure, before taking a decision,
that the LV SA has not initiated an investigation against the client. The Board is of the opinion that the
obligation  should  be  tailored  to  investigations  or  regulatory  actions  related  to  the  scope  of  the
certification and the target of evaluation. Therefore, the Board encourages the LV SA to clarify that
the investigation or regulatory action should be related to the scope of certification and the target of
evaluation.

48.

Section 7.7.2.1 (“Certification documents”) states that the certificate should include “the period of
In  order  to  avoid  confusion,  the  EDPB
implementation  of  the  planned  monitoring  measures”.

11

Adopted

49.

50.

encourages the LV SA to clarify that this includes the period of the intended monitoring, in accordance
with the Annex.

The Board notes that section 7.8.2.1 (“Directory of certified products”) states that the summary of the
assessment  report  will  include a  “description”  of  the  certified  object.  Such  description  should  be
meaningful, as specified in the Annex and, therefore, the EDPB recommends the LV SA to amend the
requirements accordingly.

Furthermore, the obligation to inform about the reasons for granting or revoking certification is not
only towards the LV SA but towards all concerned SAs. The EDPB recommends that section 7.8.3 be
amended in order to include all the concerned SAs.

51. With regard to section 7.9.3 (“Surveillance”) of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board
welcomes  the  obligation  to  carry  out  the  surveillance  activities  annually.  In  addition,  the  Board
considers  that  the  risks  associated  with  the  processing  should  be  taken  into  account  in  order  to
determine whether a more frequent monitoring is necessary. Thus, the Board encourages the LV SA
to  include  a  risk-based  approach  in  order  to  identify  whether,  in  specific  cases,  the  surveillance
activities have to be carried out more than once per year

52. With  regard  to  section 7.10.1 of  the LV  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements (“changes  affecting
certification”), the Board considers that changes in the state of art are also relevant and might affect
certification. Therefore, the Board encourages the LV SA to include this possibility among the list of
changes that might affect certification.

53.

54.

In addition, the Board notes that point 7.10.11 includes “any notification of personal data breaches,
non-compliance with the requirements of the GDPR or these criteria”. The Board considers that, in
order to avoid self-incrimination, the reference should be to infringements established by the LV SA
or  the  competent  judicial  authority.  Additionally,  the  reference  to  “any  data  breach  notification”
seems quite broad. The Board is of the view that such reference should be tailored to data breach
notifications  that  may  be  related  to  the  scope  of  the  certification  and  the  target  of  evaluation.
Therefore, the Board encourages the LV SA to add the abovementioned reference.

Regarding the fourth bullet point (“relevant decisions of the EDPB”) the Board acknowledges that the
LV SA has used the wording foreseen in Annex 1. However, in order to ensure a clear understanding
of what is meant by “decisions of the EDPB”, the Board encourages the LV SA to clarify the reference.
An example could be to refer to “documents adopted by the EDPB”.

55. With regard to section 7.11 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Termination, reduction,
suspension or withdrawal of certification”), the Board notes that there is no reference to informing
about  continuation  of  the  certification.  In  addition,  the  NAB  should  also  be  informed  about  the
continuation, termination, reduction, suspension or withdrawal of certification. Therefore, the EDPB
recommends that such references be included. Moreover, the Board encourages the LV SA to clarify
that the information should be provided in writing.

56.

57.

Concerning section 7.11.2, the Board underlines that the reference to investigations should be tailored
to investigations related to the scope of the certification and the ToE. The Board encourages the LV
SA to amend the draft accordingly.

The Board observes that section 7.11.3 refers to the LV SA not issuing certification or revoking it, if it
considers that the certification criteria are not met or no longer followed. Based on the explanations
provided by the LV SA, the Board understands that the intention is to it refer to  the powers of the LV
12

Adopted

SA to order the certification body not to issue or revoke certification if the certification criteria are not
met or no longer met. The EDPB is of the view that, rather than restating the powers of the LV SA, the
draft requirements should explicitly include the obligation of the certification body to accept decisions
and orders from the LV SA to withdraw or not to issue certification to an applicant if the requirements
for certification are not or no longer met. Therefore, the Board recommends the LV SA to include such
obligation explicitly.

58. With regard to section 7.13.1.1 (“Complaints and appeals”), the Board underlines that the reference
should not only be to complaints regarding the certification process but also to objections, in line with
the Annex. The Board encourages the LV SA to add the reference.

59.

60.

61.

62.

In  addition,  the  Board  notes  that  section  7.13.1.3  establishes  that  the  certification  body  shall
determine “who reviews the received complaints from the Certification Body, separating the persons
who have made decisions on the issues for which the complaints have been received from the review
of the complaints”. More in general and in accordance with the Annex, the certification body also
needs  to  define how separation  between  certification  activities  and  the  handling  of  appeals  and
complaints is ensured. Thus, the Board recommends the LV SA to amend the draft accordingly.

Finally, the certification body should also define how and to whom the confirmation envisaged in item
7.13.2 of ISO/IEC 17065/2012 must be given. The Board recommends the LV SA to add such reference
(e.g. in section 7.13.1.7).

2.2.6 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

The Board notes that section 8 of the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements does not include the
obligation to disclose to the LV SA the management principles and their documented implementation
during the accreditation procedure and, afterwards, at the request of the LV SA at any time during an
investigation, as stated in the Annex. The EDPB recommends that such obligation be included in the
LV SA’s accreditation requirements.

In addition, the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not include the obligation to make public
permanently  and  continuously  “how  long  the  certifications  are  valid  under  which  framework  and
conditions”. The Board acknowledges that section 4.6.1.5 of the LV SA’s draft requirements refers to
having a register of certified clients, including products, processes and services certified. The Board
recommends to complete such section with the reference to the validity, framework and conditions
of the certificate.

2.2.7 FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

63.

The Board notes that the LV SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not include any of the elements
of section 9 of the Annex and recommends that such elements be included in the LV SA’s accreditation
requirements.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

64.

The draft accreditation requirements of the Latvian Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made:

65.

Regarding ‘general remarks’, the Board recommends that the LV SA:

13

Adopted

1) ensure  that  the  terms  defined  in  the  GDPR  and/or  the  Guidelines  are  reflected

consistently in the accreditation requirements.

66.

Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the LV SA:

1) amend section 4.1.1 in line with the remarks made in paragraph 16 of the present Opinion.

2) add in subsection 4.1.2.3 and explicit reference to the tasks and powers of the competent

SA.

3)

specify in section 4.1.2.6 that the certification agreement should contain the rules for
validity, renewal and withdrawal, and the rules setting the intervals for re-evaluation or
review.

4) add in section 4.1.2.9 that the certification agreement itself should include the structure
and the procedure for complaint management as well as the necessary precautions for
the investigation of complaints.

5) clarify in section 4.1.2.11 that the infringements are those established by the LV SA and/or

judicial authorities.

6) clarify in section 4.6.1 that the information should be made easily publicly available.

67.

Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the LV SA:

1) add the missing elements of section 6.1 of the Annex, as explained in paragraph 30 above.

2)

redraft section 6 clearly distinguishing the requirements applicable to legal personnel and
to technical personnel, and to decision-makers and evaluators.

3) amend section 6, by tailoring the requirements to the certification body’s personnel and

erasing any references to the client’s personnel.

68.

Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the LV SA:

1) add in section 7.1 and explicit reference to the obligation of the certification body to

comply with the additional requirements.

2) add in section 7.1.3 the clarification regarding the notification to the concerned SAs, as

per paragraph 35 above.

3) amend section 7.1.4 by specifying that the investigation should be linked with the scope
of certification and the target of evaluation and by clarifying that the investigation refers
to the certification holder.

4)

include the obligation of the CB to justify any deviation from the procedure referred to in
paragraph 41 above.

5) explicitly state that the certification body will retain the responsibility for the decision-

making, even when it uses external experts.

6)

replace the references to “the client” by “the certification body” in section 7.4.3, 7.4.4
and 7.4.5 and amend section 7.4.5 in order to clarify the references to the client.

14

Adopted

7) clarify that the duration of validity of the GDPR certification must not be conditional upon

the validity of other types of certifications.

8)

include the  obligation  of  the  certification  body  to  set  out  in  detail  in  its  certification
mechanism  how  the  information  required  in  item  7.4.6  ISO/IEC  17065/2012 shall  be
provided to the applicant about non conformities from a certification mechanism.

9) amend the requirements in accordance with paragraphs 49 and 50 above.

10) amend section 7.11 in accordance with paragraph 55 above.

11) explicitly include the obligation of the certification body to accept decisions and orders
from the LV SA to withdraw or not to issue certification to an applicant if the requirements
for certification are not or no longer met

12) amend the requirements in accordance with paragraphs 59 and 60 above.

69.

Regarding ‘management system requirements’, the Board recommends that the LV SA:

1)

include  the  obligation  to  disclose  to  the  LV  SA  the  management  principles  and  their
documented implementation during the accreditation procedure and, afterwards, at the
request of the LV SA at any time during an investigation, as stated in the Annex.

2) complete section 4.6.1.5 with the reference to the validity, framework and conditions of

the certificate

70.

Regarding ‘further additional requirements’, the Board recommends that the LV SA:

1)

include the elements of section 9 of the Annex.

4 FINAL REMARKS

71.

72.

This opinion is addressed to the Latvian Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the LV SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this
opinion, in whole or in part.

73.

The LV SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

15

