1/9

 File No.: PS/00285/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 11, 2020, it entered the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection (AEPD), written claim presented by D. AAA, in
the one who expresses his disagreement with the reception of an electronic message
sent by the entity EXIPAGO, S.L., in which the payment of a debt of
which the entity ***ENTITY.1 is a creditor. As stated, the message was
sent to 88 recipients without hiding their addresses, which in this way
they would have had access to the email address of the other recipients,
as well as their presumed delinquent status. Along with the claim was not provided
copy of received message.

SECOND: On January 21, 2021, after analyzing the documentation that
was in the file, a resolution is issued by the Director of the AEPD, by which
agrees to reject the claim, as there are no reasonable indications of the existence
of an infringement within the competence of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data.

THIRD: Against the aforementioned resolution, on February 21, 2021, the
The claimant filed an appeal for reversal, providing a copy of the message referred to in
the claim.

FOURTH: On March 22, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection decided to uphold the appeal filed.

FIFTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

"First. -
the claim.

Detail of the causes that have motivated the incident that has originated

(...).

Second. - Detailed description of the procedure followed for the referral of this
type of communications with debtors.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

(...).

Third. -

Possible succession of other similar incidents.

(...).

Quarter. - Actions taken in order to minimize the adverse effects of this
incident and on the measures adopted for its final resolution.

(...).

Fifth. -
affected.

(...).

Information about the notification of the security breach to the

Sixth. -

Technical and organizational measures adopted.

(...).

Seventh. - Contract for the provision of services signed with the person in charge of the
treatment.

(...).

Eighth. -

Communication of the breach to the data controller.

(...).

SIXTH: On September 1, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD, respectively.

SEVENTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that the cause that led to the incidence
was a human error in sending an electronic communication, that the methodology
for sending electronic communications to debtors is based on the
need to blind copy (BCC) all recipients, which
employees at the time of joining the company and prior to
performance of their duties receive training in this regard, which proceeded from
immediately notify the data controller of the security breach, that said
employee was reprimanded, that preventive measures have been taken to avoid this
type of incidents in the future and requests that a warning sanction be proposed.

EIGHTH: On December 3, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

<<That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection directs a
warning to EXIPAGO, S.L., with CIF B65984262, for a violation of article

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

5.1. f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5 of the RGPD, qualified
as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1 i) of the LOPDGDD and
an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4 of the
cited RGPD, qualified as serious for prescription purposes in article 73
section f) of the LOPDGDD >>

NINTH: On December 10, 2021, the respondent files a written document in
which, in short, states that it agrees with the aforementioned Proposal for
Resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On December 11, 2020, the claimant filed a written
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD), in which
expressed his disagreement with the receipt of an email sent by
the claimed entity, in which the payment of a debt was demanded. The message was
sent to 88 recipients without hiding their addresses, having access to the address
e-mail of the other recipients, as well as their presumed condition of
delinquent

SECOND: Checking the documentation provided and that it is incorporated
to the file, it is recorded that on December 11, 2020, at 2:56 p.m., the
claimant received email from the address: ***EMAIL.1, on behalf of
EXIPAGO, S.L., without a blind copy, along with 88 other email addresses,
among which was the address of the claimant and through which it was claimed
a debt that had to be paid or legal action would be taken.

THIRD: The claimed party acknowledges that the incident that is the subject of the claim was
due to human error and states that it has proceeded to implement the measures
adequate corrective actions to avoid the repetition of similar events in the future.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants
each control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

SECOND: The facts proven in the procedure evidence the disclosure of the
email addresses when an email is sent to the claimant
without hidden copy with violation of the technical and organizational measures and
violating the confidentiality of the data.
In the present case, the defendant is charged with the infraction of article 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the
RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

THIRD: Article 5 of the RGPD, Principles related to treatment, which establishes
that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing, as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in
relation to article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, when disclosing to
third parties, personal data, when sending without a blind copy a claim of
debt.

This duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, must be understood
whose purpose is to prevent leaks of data without consent
by their owners.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not only on the
responsible and in charge of the treatment but to anyone who intervenes in any
phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

FOURTH: Article 32 of the RGPD, security of treatment, establishes the following:

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

 a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

 b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

  c) the ability to restore availability and access to data

quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

 
 d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

 
2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data (The underlining is from the AEPD).

Recital 75 of the RGPD lists a series of factors or assumptions associated with
risks for the guarantees of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties:

“The risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to the processing of data that could cause
physical, material or non-material damages, particularly in cases where
that the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, usurpation of
identity or fraud, financial loss, reputational damage, loss of
confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of the
pseudonymization or any other significant economic or social damage; in the
cases in which the interested parties are deprived of their rights and freedoms or are
prevent exercising control over your personal data; In cases where the data
treated personalities reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religion
or philosophical beliefs, militancy in trade unions and the processing of genetic data,
data relating to health or data on sex life, or convictions and offenses
criminal or related security measures; In cases where they are evaluated
personal aspects, in particular the analysis or prediction of aspects related to the
performance at work, economic situation, health, preferences or interests
personal, reliability or behavior, situation or movements, in order to create or
use personal profiles; in the cases in which personal data of
vulnerable people, in particular children; or in cases where the treatment
involves a large amount of personal data and affects a large number of
interested."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

FIFTH: Article 4.12 of the RGPD establishes that it is considered “violation of the
security of personal data: any breach of security that causes the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to
said data.”

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications that the
claimed has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when there was a breach of
security, by sending an email without a blind copy to 88 recipients, among
them the claimant, in which a debt was claimed, revealing information and data
of a personal nature to third parties.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that are subject
of treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, pointing out that the determination of technical measures and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the provisions of
this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the risks
inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption. These
measures must ensure an adequate level of security, including the
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

SIXTH: The infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the
Next:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

basic principles for treatment, including conditions for con-
sentiment under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements" determines what
following: "The acts and behaviors referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 72 of the LOPDGDD,
under the rubric of infractions considered very serious, it establishes the following: “1. In
Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)
Yo)

The violation of the duty of confidentiality established in article 5 of
this organic law.

The violation of article 32 RGPD is typified in article 83.4.a) of the
cited RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11,
25 to 39, 42 and 43.”

 (…)

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, article 73 of the LOPDGDD,
under the heading "Infringements considered serious", it establishes the following:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
83.5 and 83.4 of the GDPR.

SEVENTH: Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public, in Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to sanction", in the
Article 28 under the heading "Responsibility", the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt.”

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
with the consequence of breaching the principle of confidentiality constitutes the
element of guilt.

EIGHTH: Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5 sections a) and b) of the
RGPD, in its art. 58.2 b) provides for the possibility of directing a warning, in relation to
with what is stated in Considering 148:

"In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance."

In the present case, based on the diligence carried out by the entity
claimed in relation to informing this Agency of the circumstances in which
the incident that gave rise to the claim occurred, as well as the measures to be adopted
in order to prevent events such as the one claimed from occurring again in the future,
considering that the answer has been reasonable, acknowledging the facts and, not
having evidence of other claims by the affected persons,
allows to consider a reduction of guilt in the facts, for which it is considered
in accordance with the law, not to impose a sanction consisting of an administrative fine and
replace it with a warning, in accordance with article 76.3 of the LOPDGDD,
in relation to article 58.2 b) of the RGPD that states the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

2. Each control authority will have all of the following corrective powers in-
listed below:
 (…)
“b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when
treatment operations have infringed the provisions of these Regulations.
unto.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS EXIPAGO, S.L., with CIF B65984262, for an infraction of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 and 83.4 of the
GDPR, respectively, a warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to EXIPAGO, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-270122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

