1/12

 File No.: EXP202209529

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On February 23, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against B.B.B. (onwards,
the claimed party), through the Transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202209529

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated August 8,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against D. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system located in CALLE
*** ADDRESS.1 ALMERÍA, there being indications of a possible breach of the
provided in article 5.1.c) of the General Data Protection Regulations (in
forward, GDPR).

The reasons for the claim are the following:

The claiming party states that the claimed party is responsible for a camera
installed on the façade of his home, which is oriented towards the public thoroughfare in a
manifest, without having administrative authorization to do so, capturing
images also of the entrance to the home of the claimant.
Provide images of the camera location.

The documents provided are:
- Photo report

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer of the claim, which was carried out in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was not collected by the person in charge.

The first transfer attempt was made on September 14, 2022, with
"Absent" result. It was "Returned to Origin for Surplus (Not withdrawn in office)"
on 09/21/2022, according to the certification of impossibility of delivery that appears in the
proceedings.

The second attempt was made on October 10, 2022, with the result of
"Absent". It was "Returned to Origin for Surplus (Not withdrawn in office)" on date
10/18/2022, according to the certification of impossibility of delivery that appears in the
proceedings.

THIRD: On November 8, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo
Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II
The image is a personal data

The physical image of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is data
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

The images generated by a system of cameras or camcorders are data of
personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the protection regulations
of data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the denounced video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

II
alleged infringement

Article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow the use of
processing of personal data.

Regarding treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

The processing of personal data is subject to the rest of the principles of the
treatment contained in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight the principle of
minimization of data contained in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR which provides that
personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to
for the purposes for which they are processed”.

This means that in a specific treatment only the data can be processed
timely personal, that come to the case and that are strictly necessary
to fulfill the purpose for which they are processed. Treatment must be adjusted and
proportional to the purpose to which it is directed. The relevance in the treatment of
data must occur both at the time of data collection and at the time of
subsequent treatment carried out on them.

In accordance with the above, the processing of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their deletion.

The application of the principle of data minimization in the field of video surveillance
means that images of the public thoroughfare cannot be captured, since the
treatment of images in public places, unless authorized
government, can only be carried out by the Security Forces and Corps.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
cameras installed on facades or inside, may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public thoroughfare.

That is, cameras and camcorders installed for security purposes may not be
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for said purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in such a case

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and, in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surroundings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those that access the space
guarded.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

Nor can images be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties
without the consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who
find.

Likewise, it is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
such as changing rooms, lockers or rest areas for workers.
 
IV.
Video surveillance obligations

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
video surveillance, to comply with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other means, recital 39 of the GDPR.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a subsequent purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles
12 and 13 of the GDPR, and 22 of the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, article 22 of the LOPDGDD provides in relation to video surveillance
a “layered information” system.

The first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the treatment
(video surveillance), the identity of the person responsible, the possibility of exercising the rights
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more information about the
processing of personal data.

This information will be contained in a device placed in a sufficiently
visible and must be provided in advance.

Second layer information should be easily available in one place
accessible to the affected person, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc…,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
other elements of article 13 of the GDPR.

4.- The treatment of images through the installation of camera systems or
video cameras must be lawful and comply with the principle of proportionality and the principle of
minimization of data, in the terms already indicated.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, property or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent authority within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.
6.- The controller must keep a record of processing activities
carried out under his responsibility in which the information to which he makes
reference article 30.1 of the GDPR.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt security measures.
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood to be the destruction, loss or accidental alteration or
unlawful transfer of personal data, stored or otherwise processed, or the
communication or unauthorized access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a qualified private security company
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:





the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"),
the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12



the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available at the
section "Guides and tools").

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

V
Possible administrative offense

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the facts exposed violate what is established in the article
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, so they could imply the commission of an infringement
typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

SAW
Sanction proposal

Article 58.2 of the GDPR establishes:

"Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:
(...)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

d) order the person in charge or person in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;
(...)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this paragraph, according to the circumstances of each
particular case".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

Regarding the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, based on the facts
exposed and without prejudice to what results from the instruction of the procedure, it is
considers that the sanction that should be imposed is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, which indicates:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement”.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:
"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have included the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity
f) Affectation of the rights of minors
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party”.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infractions
committed by violating the provisions of article 5.1 c) of the GDPR, allows to set as
initial assessment a fine of €300 (three hundred euros).

It must be remembered that the voluntary payment of the proposed amounts does not exempt
accredit the regularization of the video surveillance system, in accordance with the
regulations in force.

VII
possible measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period to be determined:
Evidence of having removed the system of cameras or video cameras from the
current place or to its reorientation, in such a way that the viewing of the images
that are observed shows that the adjoining house or public thoroughfare is not captured.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

VIII
Conclusion

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection,

AGREES:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against D.B.B.B., with NIF
***NIF.1, for the alleged violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5.a) of the aforementioned GDPR.
 
SECOND: APPOINT as instructor C.C.C. and, as secretary, to D.D.D.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data on actions carried out prior to the start of this
sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
(LPACAP, hereinafter), the corresponding sanction would be €300 (three hundred
cough euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, granting him
a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and
Submit any evidence you deem appropriate. In his statement of pleadings
You must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading
of this document

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement, which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the penalty would be set at €240 (two hundred and forty euros),
resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €240 (two hundred and forty euros) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of the
corresponding measures.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
set at €180 (one hundred and eighty euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, €240 or €180, you must make it effective by depositing
in account IBAN no.: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
XXXXXXXXXXXX) opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it receives.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The disciplinary procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
from the date of the start agreement or, where appropriate, the start agreement project.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

948-050822

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On March 9, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the penalty in the amount of 180 euros making use of the two reductions provided
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

in the Commencement Agreement transcribed above, which implies recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FOURTH: In the previously transcribed initiation agreement, it was indicated that, if
Once the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the controller the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

Having recognized the responsibility for the infringement, the imposition of
the measures included in the Initiation Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202209529, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: ORDER B.B.B. so that within one month notify the
Agency adopting the measures described in the fundamentals of law
of the Initiation Agreement transcribed in this resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

1259-121222

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

