Litigation Chamber

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 of September 8

2020

 

 

 

 

File number: DOS-2019-04058

 

 

Subject: Complaint for unlawful processing of personal data after

consultation in the National Registry by a public interest body

 

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs Jelle Stassijns and Christophe Boeraeve, members;

 

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the

data protection, hereinafter the "GDPR");

 

Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the

ACL;

 

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on

December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

 

Considering the documents in the file;

 

 

 

 

.
 

.

.



made the following decision regarding:

1. Ms. X1, hereinafter "the first complainant", Mr. X2, hereinafter "the second complainant" and

Mr. X3, hereinafter "the third complainant", or hereinafter jointly "the complainants", and

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 2

2. Y

 

 

 

1. Facts and procedure

 

Facts

 

1. On July 23, 2019, the Data Protection Authority receives a complaint from the three complainants.

 

2. The complaint can be summarized as follows. Following an infringement, noted by the defendant

– as a public authority responsible for enforcing the rules –, to the regulation

regional1 concerning a clandestine deposit by the first plaintiff, the defendant consulted

the personal data of the National Register relating to the first complainant and the

then used. In the decision of the Director General of the defendant following

breaches of the Orders […] (hereinafter: "the Decision"), it is mentioned that the first

plaintiff cohabits with the second plaintiff, and that the third plaintiff is the father of the

second plaintiff. According to the complainants, personal data is not

necessary for the performance of the legal missions of the defendant, and therefore their use is

contrary to the legislation relating to the protection of personal data.

More specifically, questions are raised about the consultation (or

consultations) of the complainants' personal data in the National Register.

 

Procedure

 

3. On August 8, 2019, the Front Line Service declared the complaint admissible on the basis of

Article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

 

4. On August 23, 2019, the Litigation Division decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and

article 98 of the LCA, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

                                                

1 This is the Ordinance of 14 June 2012 (Brussels-Capital Region) relating to waste, M.B. 27 June 2012, hereinafter
‘the first Ordinance’ and the Ordinance of 25 March 1999 (Brussels-Capital Region) containing the Code of
the inspection, prevention, observation and repression of environmental offenses and liability
Environmental, M.B. 24 June 1999, hereinafter ‘the second Order’; the first Ordinance and the second
Order are collectively hereinafter referred to as “the Orders”.

 

 



 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 3

5. By registered letter of August 23, 2019, the plaintiffs and the defendant are informed of

this decision of the Litigation Chamber. In this letter, the parties are also

informed of the deadlines for transmitting their conclusions, in accordance with Articles 98 and 99

of the ACL. In this regard, the Litigation Chamber requests in particular the point

views of the parties on the following two points:

 
- whether or not the personal data have been requested from the National Register and on the

basis of which authorization this possible access, and the complaint of personal data

ensuing personnel, took place;

- the principle of data minimization (article 5, paragraph 1, point c) of the GDPR) confronted

to the processing of personal data that has been carried out in the context of the

Defendant's decision.

 

The defendant's submissions

6. On September 27, 2019, the defendant submitted its conclusions to the Litigation Chamber.

A copy is provided by the defendant to the plaintiffs by registered letter.

 

7. The defendant indicates that on September 14, 2018, several breaches of the first

Ordinances were noted, after which a report was drawn up. In accordance with

the second Order, a letter was sent to the first plaintiff (who, according to the

findings of the defendant, committed the breaches of the first Order) with

a copy of the report noting the aforementioned offenses and "an invitation to pay the

waste removal costs, in accordance with applicable regulations."

passages quoted in this decision have been freely translated by the General Secretariat

of the Data Protection Authority, in the absence of an official translation].

 

8. This letter was sent to the first complainant by registered mail after a search

in the National Register by the defendant, in order to be able to identify it completely and

correctly and in order to be able to address correspondence to the correct address.

 

9. On November 12, 2018, according to the defendant, the minutes were again sent to the

first complainant, given the lack of response to the registered letter from the

defendant.

 

10. The first complainant did not reply to either the registered letter or the ordinary letter from the

November 12, 2018. At the same time, the defendant decided to impose a fine

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 4

administrative procedure to the first complainant, in accordance with the provisions of the second

Order.

11. On March 5, 2019, the defendant carried out a second search in the National Registry,

which revealed that the name of the first complainant had been changed and that he no longer resided in

the address to which the defendant had sent the first letters to the first complainant.

 

12. The defendant then sent a registered letter to the first complainant, inviting him to

transmit to the defendant conclusions in the proceedings. The defendant received a

reply to this letter signed by the third complainant. According to the defendant, this response

was transmitted to him "without justifying a mandate of representation, and specified that [the third

plaintiff] undertook, by virtue of his title of retired [police] commissioner, to formulate

a substantive challenge on the basis of the use of languages in administrative matters of a

part, and the refutation of the facts on the other hand."

 

13. The Respondent then contacted the third Complainant, who responded on behalf of the

first complainant, without having submitted a representation mandate. It is after

this correspondence that the Decision was taken by the defendant, in which one

referred to the second and third plaintiffs, with a potential family connection between these two

last.

 

14. The defendant stresses that it is important – within the framework of its sanctioning powers

– that its employees have access to certain personal data contained in

the National Register. The defendant also points out that this access is in this case limited

information "such as surname, first name, date of birth, nationality, address

of legal residence and the composition of the household […]".

 

15. The defendant also asserts that it is "not in a position to carry out a search less

intrusive [in the National Register]". In the event of a search within the framework of

mentioned above in the fight against clandestine deposits, the composition of the household is

always mentioned in research. The defendant confirms that the personal data

staff of the first complainant were consulted in the National Register at two times

distinct, namely September 17, 2018 and March 5, 2019.

 

16. The mention of the surnames and first names of the second and third plaintiffs by the defendant

results from the intervention of the third plaintiff, according to the defendant. The defendant

asserts that the personal data of the third complainant "were provided to the

defendant by the person concerned himself". As a result, the mention of the name and

 

 

 

 



Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 5

first name of the third plaintiff in the Decision was "necessary". Furthermore, the mention of

surname and first name of the second complainant in the Decision resulted from the consultation of the

personal data of the first complainant in the National Register. The collection of

these data is described by the defendant in its submissions as "consequence

unfortunate but necessary investigation of [the first complainant]. It does not constitute

therefore not a breach of the principle of data minimization as imposed in Article 5 [of the

GDPR]".

 

17. The defendant affirms that the evocation of a probable family link between the second and the

third plaintiff, because they have the same name, does not arise "from a collection of

specific data". The mention of this potential family link in the Decision is, according to the

defendant, "that an assumption in a motivation which is certainly diligent, but does not

does not constitute a de facto violation of [complainants'] privacy."

 

18. The defendant asserts that it follows from its defense "that the processing of personal data

personnel by the defendant is legally legitimate, proportional and compatible with the

principle of data minimization as established in article 5, first paragraph 1, c) of the

[GDPR]. The complaint is therefore unfounded."

 

The plaintiffs' submissions in reply

19. The Complainants' Reply submissions first mention that both the

communication from the Data Protection Authority that that (of the representatives) of the

defendant do not bear the mention ‘PERSONNEL – CONFIDENTIEL’, which, according to the

complainants, is "inherent in the confidential content of personal data

staff." In addition, the envelopes that the defendant used to send his

initial conclusions would be "of inferior quality". In their submissions, the plaintiffs

do not attach any visual or other evidence of this. The plaintiffs also issue

reservations as to the request by counsel for the defendant to send by e-mail a

confirmation of receipt of his documents, "without however indicating whether he has a connection

secure enough."

 

20. Next, the Complainants question the appropriate security of their data at

personal character and compliance with the basic principles of data processing

of a personal nature by counsel for the defendant.

 

21. The complainants also point to the potential further dissemination of personal data

personnel in the Decision, in particular in appeal procedures, as well as the absence

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 6

reasoned purpose for which the processing of said personal data takes place.

The inaccuracy of the personal data processed also constitutes for the

complainants a violation of the provisions of the GDPR. This is particularly the case with regard to

the inaccurate address of the first complainant "at the time of the facts and findings by the

defendant", as well as the family link put forward between the second and third plaintiffs.

According to the plaintiffs, the research on the first plaintiff carried out by the defendant in

the National Register has not been able to establish this link with certainty.

 

22. Finally, the complainants mention that the documents attached to the pleadings in response of the

defendant contain personal data, namely those of the first

plaintiff, which are not strictly necessary for the defense conducted.

 

23. The Litigation Chamber considers that a whole series of other elements put forward by the

complainants in their rebuttal submissions are not relevant to the treatment of the

this file by the Data Protection Authority, to which the facts mentioned in the

complaint relate. This concerns, for example, respect for the principle of meticulousness by the

defendant and the missions and identification of its agents and other members of the

personnel in the exercise of the Defendant's jurisdiction under the Orders.

 

 

24. In particular, the Litigation Chamber does not take into account all the new elements

in the plaintiffs' reply submissions:

 

o given that in this case, the complainants' complaint was formulated in a manner

sufficiently clear and formal;

o given that the Litigation Chamber was seized in accordance with article 92, 1° of the LCA

and decided, under article 94, 3° of the LCA, to deal with the complaint without seizing the

Inspection Service;

o given that the intention of the legislator, in accordance with Article 98 of the LCA, is that the

parties can properly defend themselves as to the elements of the file – the scope

intrinsic to it is by definition limited to the content of the complaint;

o given that on the basis of the foregoing considerations, on the one hand it is not

desirable, from a practical point of view, to deal with new elements in the

rebuttal submissions – due to the significant number of new elements,

the burden of proof which is prima facie limited due to the absence of documents

additional data and the involvement of other data controllers – and that other

hand, in the current circumstances, it is not desirable at the level of the

procedure to expand the scope of the file to this extent;

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 7

o given that complainants are free to introduce a new complaint or new

complaints to the Data Protection Authority if they believe they are being harmed

prejudice to the rights that the Data Protection Authority has the task of

control.

 

 

25. In this regard, the Litigation Division recalls its previous decision no. 17/20202, in

which it explains that it is in principle not bound by the content of the complaint, given

that certain conditions have been met. These conditions are not met in the present case.

 

 

The defendant's reply submissions

 

 

26. The defendant's submissions in reply largely repeat the elements of the

findings in response. As a principal order, the defendant admittedly asserts that the GDPR does not

does not apply to the facts complained of:

 

"As your Authority will have noted on the basis of the aforementioned presentation of the framework

legal, the defendant acted in this litigation with a view to enforcing a

penal regulations.

 

In accordance with Article 2, § 2, d) of the GDPR, the Regulation does not apply to

processing of personal data carried out by the competent authorities

for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigation and

prosecution in this regard or the execution of criminal penalties, including the protection

against threats to public security and the prevention of such threats."

 

27. Furthermore, the defendant reacts to what the appellants assert in the pleadings in

replies on intrinsic and procedural aspects that do not concern the elements

mentioned in the complaint. With regard to these elements, the defendant disputes a

any violation of data protection legislation

staff.

 

 

 

                                                

2 Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, substantive decision 17/2020 of 28 April 2020, paragraphs
20-35 decision.

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 8

 

 

2. Motivation

 

2.1

Procedural elements in this case and jurisdiction of the

Litigation Chamber (article 100 of the LCA)

 

28. Although the Litigation Chamber has already indicated that several elements of the conclusions in

complainants' reply were not relevant to the handling of this complaint, the

Chambre Litigation wishes to explain several aspects in order to guarantee the correct

course of the procedure. The Litigation Chamber also gives some

explanations below about the alleged incompetence of the Litigation Chamber,

put forward by the defendant.

 

2.1.1. Language of the proceedings and course of the proceedings

 

29. The language of the proceedings used in this case by the Data Protection Authority

data – including the Litigation Chamber – is the Dutch language, in accordance with

section 57 of the LCA. This does not prevent evidence from being filed with

the Litigation Chamber by one or more parties in another national language or in

English.

 

30. Without finding hic et nunc whether or not the defendant committed violations of the GDPR or

other relevant legislation relating to the protection of personal data

on the basis of this file resulting from a complaint, the Litigation Chamber underlines that

the defendant has the right to a fair conduct of the proceedings (including for acts committed

by its representatives, in this case a lawyer); under section 98 of the LCA, the

defendant has the right to submit conclusions to the Litigation Chamber.3

 

31. In this sense, reference can be made to the documents which were transmitted by the defendant to the

Litigation Chamber and which have been attached to the file. These parts were used as

as evidence to make the Decision that is the subject of this complaint. Rooms

do contain several personal data, such as name,

first name, address and financial data. The transmission of said documents constitutes

also a processing of personal data within the meaning of Article 4, point 2) of the

GDPR.

 

                                                

3 Article 98, 2° of the LCA.

 

 



 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 9

32. In this context, the Litigation Chamber cannot however find any abuse,

much less a flagrant abuse, of the rights of complainants when dealing with the merits

in this procedure, in the sense that unlawful processing of personal data

staff of complainants or third parties would have taken place. Personal data processing

personnel that take place during – and as part of – substantive processing of a case

with the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority do not

definition not part of the complaint that originated this record or the contents of the record.

Within the framework of the integrity of the procedure, the Litigation Chamber will not rule as soon as

nor, therefore, with regard to the complainants' allegations on this subject in their conclusions in

replica, as explained above.

 

33. For the sake of completeness, the Litigation Chamber wishes to specify that the contribution of

conclusions by the defendant involves a certain discretionary assessment for this

party, in the sense that the defending party can determine itself which parts it

wishes to add to the file, as long as it is considered necessary in the context of a

fair process4. This is equally true for other parties involved in the

procedure.

 

 

2.1.2. The scope of the GDPR and the jurisdiction of the Litigation Chamber

34. In main order, the defendant argues that the GDPR would not apply to the present

file, given that the defendant would have acted in this dispute "with a view to enforcing

criminal regulations." The defendant refers to Article 2(2)(d) of the

GDPR.

 

35. For the sake of completeness, it may be noted that according to Article 55, paragraph

3 GDPR and Article 4, § 2, first paragraph of the LCA, the Data Protection Authority

is not competent to control the processing carried out by the courts in the exercise

of their judicial duties. This does not mean that the GDPR does not apply to activities

courts and judicial authorities.5

 

36. Next, one can react to what the defendant puts forward in concreto, namely the applicability of

Article 2, paragraph 2, point d) of the GDPR, which is stated as follows:

 

                                                

4 Article 98, 3° of the LCA – the parties are informed of the possibility "of adding to the file all the documents which they consider
helpful."

5 Recital 20 GDPR.

 

 



Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 10

"2. This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data

staff performed:

(…)

d) by the competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection of infringements

criminal proceedings, investigations and prosecutions in this area or the execution of criminal sanctions,

including protecting against threats to public safety and preventing

such threats."

37. Recital 19 of the GDPR specifies that in this context, specific regulations are

applicable in the form of a European directive6. This directive was implemented in

Belgian national law by the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of natural persons

with regard to the processing of personal data.7

 

38. Article 26, 7° of the law on data protection sets out the authorities

competent in this context. The defendant, including its collaborators, are not part

of those authorities which are competent in this respect within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph 2, point

d) GDPR. The fact that certain agents of the defendant are appointed under Article

5, § 2 of the second Ordinance to be granted the status of judicial police officer

does not in fact mean that the aforementioned officers are part of the police services.8

 

39. Finally, it can be seen that the defendant was authorized to consult the National Register

in specific circumstances9. This authorization is included in a royal decree which

also details the conditions for access to the National Register10. It is therefore granted to the

defendant as a public authority11. The provisions of the GDPR as well as those of the

law on the National Register that the Litigation Chamber deems relevant in the assessment

of this file therefore apply in full to the defendant.

 

40. Under Article 4 of the LCA, the Data Protection Authority is competent to

monitor compliance with "laws containing provisions relating to the protection of the processing

personal data." Given that in the present case, no other authority of

                                                

6 Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection
criminal offences, investigation and prosecution thereof or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement
of such data and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.

7 M.B. September 5, 2018, hereinafter: Data Protection Act.

8 Police services within the meaning of article 2 of the law of 7 December 1998 organizing an integrated police service, structured on a
two levels (M.B. 5 January 1999).

9 "National Register" means in this Decision: the information processing system within the meaning of Article 1
of the law of 8 August 1983 organizing a national register of natural persons, M.B. 21 April 1984 (hereinafter: the law on the
national registry).

10 Royal decree authorizing Y to access information from the National Register of natural persons, hereinafter: the royal decree
Y).

11 The defendant is a public interest body in accordance with Article 3 of the Ordinance establishing Y.

 

 



 

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 11

control is competent under the legislation in force, and that no competence has

been withdrawn from the Data Protection Authority in this specific context, it is

the competent supervisory authority.12

2.2

The lawfulness of the processing of personal data obtained

after consultation of the National Register (Article 6, paragraph 1 of the

GDPR)

 

2.2.1. Access to personal data from the National Register and their use

41. The Litigation Chamber has already expressed its views in a case relating to a

consultation of the National Register13. However, the complaint concerned the legality of the consultation

of the National Register itself. In this case, the complaint relates to a

processing of personal data while the initial consultation of the data of the

first complainant in the National Register was authorized under the regulations and

authorizations in force.

 

42. The Litigation Division wishes to comment on this situation in order to remove any possible

confusion about this.

 

43. Article 5, § 1 of the law on the National Register provides that the Minister of the Interior is

competent to authorize, among other things, public bodies governed by Belgian law such as the

defendant to access the "information" of the National Register, which is relevant for the

information which such bodies are entitled to know by virtue of a document

legislation such as an ordinance. At the time the authorization was granted to the

defendant, the law on the National Register provided that it was the King who granted this

authorization.15

 

44. Article 1 of Royal Decree Y provides that it is the Director General of the defendant who

access to the National Register, as well as all the defendant's personnel who,

                                                

12 Article 4, § 2, second paragraph of the LCA.

13 Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, Decision on the merits 19/2020 of 19 April 2020.

14 Article 5, § 1, 2° of the law on the National Register – for the legal basis, reference can be made both to the first
Ordinance only to the second Ordinance.

15 Royal Decree Y.

 

 



Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 12

taking into account their functions and within the limits of their respective attributions, have been

designated by name and in writing for this purpose by the Director General.

 

45. According to Article 3 of Royal Decree Y, the defendant must provide annually to "the Commission

of the protection of privacy" a list of the persons designated for the consultation of the

National Registry. The defendant appended to its submissions a document containing a list which

was forwarded to the Commission for the Protection of Privacy (hereinafter: CPVP) and which dates

from February 1, 2018.

 

46. The Data Protection Authority no longer has powers concerning the

authorizations or deliberations granting access to the National Register. We can emphasize

in this regard that Royal Decree Y has not been brought into line with either the GDPR - which gives the

controller a central role - nor with the National Register Act. For concern

completeness, we can also mention that the Information Security Committee is not

not competent where other regulatory standards govern access to data at

personal data in public databases and applications16. This is the case in

the case, given that Article 5 of the Law on the National Register specifically assigns

to the Minister of the Interior the power to grant access to the National Register. 17

 

2.2.2. The two extractions of the first complainant's personal data in the

National register by the defendant

 

47. The question of whether the consultation of personal data is lawful and whether the

further processing of these personal data after this consultation are all

lawful processing must be examined in particular in the light of Article 6 of the GDPR.

 

48. The Litigation Chamber repeats and clarifies that what the plaintiffs have advanced about the

progress of the procedure on the part of the defendant (in particular respect for the

legislation in force on the use of languages by the defendant) is not within the power

discretion of the Data Protection Authority. This does not prevent the House

Litigation to decide on the aspects concerning the protection of data to be

personal character of the complainants.

 

                                                

16 Article 35/1, second paragraph of the Federal Services Integrator Act concerns the Act of 15 August 2012 on the creation
and Federal Service Integrator Organization, M.B. August 29, 2012.
17 And therefore not in the Chamber Federal authority of the Information Security Committee, in accordance with article 86 of the law of 5
September 2018 establishing the Information Security Committee and amending various laws concerning the implementation of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016 April 2016 on the protection of persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing the
Directive 95/46/EC, M.B. September 10, 2019.

 

 



Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 13

49. The defendant consulted the personal data of the National Register concerning

of the first complainant at two separate times, namely September 17, 2018 and

March 5, 2019.

 

50. The first consultation of the National Register on 17 September 2018 followed the findings

made by the defendant in accordance with the first Order and the second

Order18. The defendant, according to its own statements in the summary of its conclusions,

"sent a report noting the infringements of the legislation relating to waste […]".

 

51. By "waste legislation", the defendant refers more specifically to the

skills available to one or more of its staff members within the framework of

findings of breaches of the first Ordinance – these are breaches of

Article 18, § 1 and Article 19, § 4 – on the basis of Article 5, § 2 of the second Ordinance.

 

52. As explained at the beginning of point 2.2., the defendant has the possibility of consulting the

National Registry, more specifically for the following reasons:

 

 

“"(…) for the accomplishment of the tasks that are devolved [to the defendant] in

prevention and management of waste, namely research, observation,

prosecution and repression of environmental offences."19

53. The second consultation resulted from the first complainant's failure to respond to letters

of

the defendant of September 25, 2018 (by registered mail) and of

November 12, 2018 (by regular mail). The second consultation on March 5, 2019 revealed

that the first complainant's name and mailing address had changed. This has

necessitated the sending of a new letter by the defendant to the first plaintiff on March 15

2019 (by registered mail).

 

54. Consultation of the National Register by the Director General or a staff member

appointed in writing by the Chief Executive Officer, following observations made by the members of the

defendant's staff regarding clandestine deposits, falls within the framework of

the exercise of official authority vested in the defendant. Legality must therefore be

analyzed in particular in the light of Article 6, paragraph 1, point e) of the GDPR.

 

55. The Litigation Division finds that the powers and related public authority of which

is vested in the defendant are concretely entrusted to the defendant by virtue of the

                                                

18 An excerpt from the first consultation was provided in the defendant's pleadings in response, exhibit 2.

19 Article 1, first paragraph of Royal Decree Y.

 

 



Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 14

first Ordinance and the second Ordinance. The determination of authority tasks

public in these two legal texts is necessary in accordance with Article 6, paragraph

2 GDPR in order to fall under the basis of lawfulness within the meaning of Article 6(1),

point e) of the GDPR.20

 

56. The question also arises as to whether the consultation of personal data

in the National Registry was ‘necessary’ in the exercise of authority

public. In this sense, only the processing of personal data containing

information necessary for the purpose of exercising official authority is relevant.21

 

57. The Litigation Chamber considers that the two consultations of data of a

personal of the first complainant in the National Register, and the subsequent processing of its

personal data, in particular his surname, first name and contact details are

indeed necessary for the exercise of tasks of public authority. Consulting is

necessary for a correct and complete identification of the first complainant, including his

contact details. This can only be done lawfully and sufficiently by means of a

consultation of his personal data in the National Register.

 

58. The second consultation was more specifically necessary due to the lack of

response of the first plaintiff to the first letters of the defendant, and of the fact that there was

therefore in good faith a suspicion on the part of the defendant that the contact details of the

first complainant had changed. This has indeed been confirmed, and is illustrated by the fact

that after the sending of letters by the defendant following the second consultation of the Register

national (to another postal address), a response has been received from the first complainant,

although this communication was transmitted on behalf of the latter by the third

plaintiff, without a representation mandate. Also, it turned out that the name of the first

complainant had changed between the first and the second consultation of the National Registry, which

that the defendant could only have formally noted by consulting the Register

national.

 

59. For the sake of completeness, it can be mentioned that the personal data of the

second complainant were visible when consulting the personal data

of the first complainant in the National Registry, since it is not possible for the

defendant to correctly consult the personal data of the first

                                                

20 In this sense: W. KOTSCHY, “Lawfulness of processing” in C. KUNER, L.A. BYGRAVE and C. DOCKSEY, The EU General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR): A Commentary, Oxford, 2020, (321)335.

21 Cf. analogous reasoning in the CJEU judgment, Heinz Huber c. Bundesrepublik Deutschland, C-524/06, ECLI:EU:C:2008:724,
through. 59: "However, it should be noted that such a register may not contain any information other than that which is necessary
to this end."

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 15

complainant without displaying certain personal data of the second

plaintiff, since the second plaintiff cohabits legally with the first plaintiff.

 

60. However, the mention of the link between the first and the second complainant requires an analysis

distinct from the basis of the processing, which also concerns the rights of the first complainant, being

given that the mere link with another natural person constitutes in itself data to be

personal character. This question will be examined further in section 2.2.3.

 

61. Based on all the aforementioned elements, the Litigation Chamber concludes that the two

extractions of the personal data of the first complainant in the National Registry

as well as the further processing of this personal data is lawful,

pursuant to Art. 6(1)(e) GDPR, as there is a

need to know the personal data in an accurate, complete and

of this first complainant and that this is part of the proportionate enforcement

powers entrusted to the defendant by the Orders.

 

2.2.3. The extraction of personal data relating to the second complainant during the

consultation of the personal data of the first complainant in the Register

national and the family link assumed by the defendant between the second plaintiff and the

third plaintiff

 

62. The question of whether the mention of the personal data of the second and the

third plaintiff in Respondent’s Decision was ‘necessary’ in connection with

the exercise of official authority pursuant to Article 6(1)(e) GDPR

must be analyzed separately by the Litigation Chamber.

 

63. It may be noted that the Complainants and the Respondent indicate that the third

complainant submitted submissions in his own name but on behalf of the first

plaintiff in the procedure which the defendant conducted by virtue of its powers arising

Ordinances. There is therefore a real interest for the defendant to mention the name of the

third plaintiff in the Decision, in order to clearly explain the defense of the first

complainant (actually conducted by the third complainant without a representation mandate).

 

64. On the other hand, the Litigation Chamber finds that the second plaintiff, as a

legal cohabiting spouse of the first plaintiff, was not involved at any time during the

defendant's proceedings, and that the mention of his personal data in

the Decision is therefore in no way relevant to the purpose of the Decision – namely the sanction

of the first complainant. The first plaintiff suffers a violation of his rights here too, being

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 16

given that the mention of his family or legal ties does not constitute any treatment

necessary personal data within the meaning of Article 6, paragraph 1, point e) of the

GDPR.

 

65. Furthermore, it can be noted that the observation of a potential family link between the second

complainant and the third complainant, on the one hand is not relevant for the purpose of the Decision,

and on the other hand has not been formally established by the defendant. For this last aspect, the

Litigation Chamber finds that the family relationship as personal data

is assumed by the defendant, which means that this personal data is

likely to be wrong. This is not in the spirit of the legislation relating to the protection

personal data. This provides in particular in Article 5(1)

point d) GDPR that the personal data processed must be accurate.

 

66. The Litigation Division considers firstly that there is no lawful processing within the meaning

of Article 6, paragraph 1, point e) of the GDPR when the defendant mentions in the

Decision the personal data of the second complainant – which she obtained in

consulting the personal data of the first complainant in the National Registry

–, when it is not necessary for the purpose of exercising his official authority. That

also prejudices the rights of the first plaintiff, since the mention of the link

legal and familial relationship between him and the second plaintiff does not constitute lawful treatment at the

meaning of Article 6, paragraph 1, point e) of the GDPR. Nor does the defendant cite

any other possible basis and the Litigation Chamber cannot establish any other basis

of lawfulness of Article 6, paragraph 1 of the GDPR on the basis of what has been submitted to it.

 

67. The Litigation Division considers secondly that the indication of a probable family link

between the second complainant and the third complainant does not constitute lawful treatment

pursuant to Art. 6(1)(e) GDPR, as this does not constitute

not information necessary for the purpose of the exercise of official authority by the

defendant through the Decision. Furthermore, the family connection is an assumption, which

does not correspond to the spirit of Article 5, paragraph 1, point d) of the GDPR, which specifies that the

personal data that is processed must be accurate. Finally, the mention of a

potential family connection is not limited to what is necessary for the purposes of the Decision, which

is contrary to the principle of data minimization within the meaning of Article 5(1),

point c) of the GDPR.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 17

3. GDPR Violations and Complainant's Claims

 

68. The Litigation Chamber considers that the violations of the following provisions by the

defendant are proven:

at.

Article 6(1)(e) GDPR, since the statement in the

Decision of the personal data of the second complainant, as well as the link

between the first and the second complainant and between the second and the third

complainant, was not necessary for the exercise of the public authority tasks of the

defendant, which were entrusted to it by the provisions of the Orders;

b.

Article 5, paragraph 1, point d) and point c) of the GDPR, since the

defendant did not take sufficient steps to ensure that the assertion

of the existence of a family relationship between the second and the third plaintiffs is correct,

and given that the establishment of such a family link is not necessary for the

purposes for which the personal data is processed.

69. Given the importance of transparency with regard to the decision-making process

of the Litigation Chamber, this decision is published on the Authority's website

of data protection by deleting the direct identification data of the

parties and natural persons named.

 

 

 

 

FOR THESE REASONS,

 

the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:

 to reprimand the defendant, in accordance with article 100, § 1, 5° of the LCA and

Article 58 (2) (b) of the GDPR, due to the takeover and thus the processing

wrongful use of the second complainant's personal data from the Registry

national, and the subsequent use of this personal data to establish certain

unnecessary links respectively between the first and the second complainant, and between the

second and third complainant, which constitutes a violation of article 6, paragraph 1

GDPR; moreover, the defendant did not take all appropriate measures to

ensure that these links, as personal data, are accurate,

in accordance

at

the article

5,

paragraph

1,

point

d)

from

GDPR

;

 

 to notify the defendant, in accordance with article 100, § 1, 5° of the LCA and

article 58, paragraph 2, point a) of the GDPR, because the consultation and use

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 61/2020 - 18

subsequent release of personal data from the National Register must always be lawful,

fair and necessary, and this in the spirit of the GDPR – and more particularly of the principles

relating to the processing of personal data of Article 5 of the GDPR – and

in accordance with the legislation in force concerning the National Register, more particularly

the National Register Act.

 

 

 

Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of

thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of

given as defendant.

 

 

 

 

(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans

President of the Litigation Chamber

 

 

 

