 

Data Protection Guidelines for the promotion of good practice 

Processing of personal data by credit referencing institutions 

 
Preamble 

 

 
01.  In terms of article 40(g) of the Data Protection Act (Cap 440) hereinafter referred 
to as the “Act”, and in accordance with his function to encourage the drawing up of 
suitable codes of conduct by the various sectors affected by the provisions of this Act, 
the  Commissioner  is  issuing  the  following  guidelines  aimed  at  promoting  good 
practice in the use of personal data for credit referencing purposes. 

 
02.  In  the  absence  of  a  specific  legal  framework  regulating  the  area  of  credit 
referencing,  the  Commissioner  felt  the  need  to  develop  guidelines  on  a  common 
interpretation of data protection rules applicable to this sector.  

 
03.  Given that these guidelines are based on current practices, the Commissioner will 
take  into  account  future  development  and  if  necessary  introduce  specific 
amendments, or issue further guidance after consultation with the sector.  

 
 
 
Terminology 
 
04.  Unless otherwise specified in these guidelines, the definitions contained in article 2 

of the Act shall be applicable.  

 
05.  In addition; 
 

"credit  application/relationship"  shall  mean  any  application  or  relationship 
concerning the granting of credit, guarantees or similar instruments in the exercise 
of commercial and/or professional activities, in the form of a payment extension, a 
loan, guarantee or any other similar financial support or relationship; 
 
"credit 
information  system"  shall  mean  any  database  concerning  credit 
applications/relationships  that  is  centrally  managed  by  a  legal  person,  an 
organisation, an association and/or another private body and can only be accessed 
by  the  authorised  entities  communicating  the  information  recorded  therein  and 
participating in the relevant information system; 
 
"credit referencing agency (CRA)" shall mean any private entity acting as controller 
of the processing of the personal data recorded in a credit information system and 
managing  said  system  by  setting  out  the  mechanisms,  rules  and  procedures 
applying to its operation and use; 

1 

 

 
"participant"  shall  mean  any  person  that  acts  as  a  controller  of  the  processing  of 
the  personal  data  that  are  collected  in  connection  with  credit  applications/ 
relationships,  participates  in  the  relevant  credit  information  system  based  on  an 
agreement  and/or  contract  with  the  CRA,  and  can  use  the  data  contained  in  the 
system, being under the obligation to notify the CRA systematically of said personal 
data as related to credit applications/relationships within the framework of mutual 
data exchanges with other participants; 
 
“defaulting  debts”  shall  mean  pending  financial  obligations  arising  from  the 
provision  of  goods  or  services  on  credit  which  are not honoured  according  to  the 
terms  regulating  a  credit  application/  relationship.  Similar  financial  obligations 
also  include  dishonoured  payments  by  cheque,  including  bills  of  exchange  and 
debts  arising  or  otherwise  re-established  further  to  Court  judgements  or  other 
executive titles in relation to the provision of goods or services; 
 
"automated  credit  scoring  techniques  and/or  systems"  shall  mean  mechanisms 
used  to  process  personal  data  related  to  credit  applications/relationships,  and 
consisting in the use of automated features based on statistical methods or models 
with a view to assessing credit risk. 

 
 
Scope and Applicability  
 
06.  These  guidelines  are  primarily  intended  to  promote  good  practice  amongst 
organisations operating as a CRA and participating entities having access to a credit 
information system.  

 
07.  The document is of particular interest to specific stakeholders involved in the field 
of credit facilities, loans, or other forms of payment extensions, such as banks and 
other related financial institutions, the business community at large and individual 
consumers.  

 
08.  Where  organisations  have  already  developed  internal  procedures  addressing 
issues which are contained in these guidelines, such procedures shall be reviewed 
accordingly to reflect the interpretation contained in this document.  

 
09.  These  guidelines  are  only  applicable  to  the  processing  of  personal  information 
relating to data subjects acting in their own personal capacity, which data, is used 
for the purposes of creating and maintaining a credit information system regarding 
defaulting debts and is made available to participants offering consumer credit or 
any other form of payment extension.  

 
10.  Therefore  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  a  data  subject’s 
involvement  in  a  business  activity,  being  a  sole  trader  or  in  representation  of  a 
company shall not be considered for the purposes of these guidelines. In addition, 
the  processing  of  data  in  relation  to  legal  persons  or  liability  companies  falls 

2 

 

outside  the  scope  of  the  Act  and  therefore  these  guidelines  are  not  intended  to 
cover  similar  data  processing.  This  notwithstanding,  CRAs  are  free  to  apply  the 
same principles and modus operandi across the board.   

 
 
Legality for data processing 
 
11.  Having  regard  to  the  benefits  derived  by  the  business  community  from  credit 
information  systems,  and  taking  due  consideration  of  the  right  to  privacy  of  data 
subjects;  

 
12.  It shall be lawful for CRAs to process personal data in relation to defaulting debts 
for  the  purposes  of  compiling,  maintaining  and  making  available  a  credit 
information  system  to  their  participants  whose  business  activity  requires 
knowledge  on  credit  applications/relationships  and  can  demonstrate  a  legitimate 
interest  within  the  meaning  of  article  9(f)  of  the  Act,  in  making  use  of  such 
information. 

 
13.  In  this  respect  CRAs  shall  regulate  such  participants  by  means  of  a  written 
agreement  which  shall  specify  the  terms  of  use  and  participation  in  the  credit 
information  system  including  the  data  protection  measures  contained  in  these 
guidelines.  

 
 
Prior Authorisation of the Commissioner 
 
14.  Any  organisation  intending  to  operate  as  CRA  shall,  before  carrying  out  any  data 
its  operations  to  a  prior-checking  evaluation  of  the 

processing,  subject 
Commissioner in accordance with article 34 of the Act.  

 
15.   Any  organisation  already  in  operation  on  the  bringing  into  effect  of  these 

guidelines shall also subject its operations to an assessment by the Commissioner. 

 
16.  The  requirement  for  prior-checking  shall  also  apply  in  cases  where  a  credit 
referencing agency introduces new forms of processing in addition to those already 
approved  by  the  Commissioner  in  the  initial  evaluation,  where  such  processing 
may  involve  particular  risks  of  improper  interference  with  the  privacy  of  data 
subjects.  

 
17.  The  Commissioner  is  empowered  to  carry  out  periodic  reviews  of  the  processing 
operations  undertaken  by  credit  referencing  agencies  and  shall  carry  out  such 
reviews as he deems necessary.  

 
 
 
 
 

3 

 

 
Notification  
 
18.  Besides  the  mandatory  notification  for prior-checking  required  in  terms  of  article 
34, the standard notification of the data processes required under article 29 of the 
Act, shall be submitted to the Commissioner accordingly. Such notification shall be 
updated  regularly  to  include  any  new  processes  or  amendments  in  the  original 
form. The requirement for a standard notification is also applicable to participants 
since  they  are  acting  as  data  controllers  with  respect  to  the  information  obtained 
from credit referencing agencies, and other general information processed for their 
day-to-day business activities.  

 
 
Purposes of processing 
 
19.  The personal data contained in a credit information system may only be processed 
by  the  CRA  and  participants  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  credit  and  limiting  the 
relevant  risks,  and  in  particular,  to  assess  data  subjects'  financial  status  and 
creditworthiness or anyhow their reliability and timeliness of payment. 

 
20.  No  other  purposes  may  be  pursued,  such  as  market  research  or  the  promotion, 

advertising, direct selling of products or services.  

 
 
 
Data Collection and Processing 

 

21.  CRAs may collect and process personal data in relation to defaulting debts arising 
from credit relationships entered into by their participants, provided that the data 
subject does not object on reasonable grounds to the collection of such data. Where 
a  data  subject  defaults  in  relation  to  payment  obligations  arising  from  a  credit 
relationship  with  a  participant,  the  participant  shall  be  entitled  to  provide  such 
information to the CRA, together with all the necessary evidence, in order to allow 
for  the  registration  of  the  defaulters  in  the  credit  information  system.  Such  data 
shall  be  duly  verified  initially  by  the  participant  and  then  by  the  CRA  prior  to  its 
recording  in  the  system.  Apart  from  the  information  relating  to  defaulting  debts, 
participants  may  also  disclose  personal  data  concerning  debts  which  were 
positively  settled  during  the  stipulated  terms  established  under  a  credit 
relationship,  provided  that  such  a  disclosure  to  the  CRA,  may  only  occur  with  the 
freely given and informed consent of the data subject within the meaning of Article 
9(a) of the Act.  

 
22.  In addition CRAs may also collect and process personal data which is made publicly 
available  by  the  Court  Registrar  in  relation  to  civil  Court  sentences  or  decisions 
specifically  relating  to  the  financial  obligations  or  status  of  data  subjects,  and  in 
particular where such individuals are ordered to settle a defaulting debt. Such data 
may  be  registered  in  the  credit  information  system,  further  to  the  necessary 

4 

 

verifications being made and provided that upon displaying such information, CRAs 
shall  clearly indicate that  the  information  was obtained  from a  public source,  and 
shall specify the source from where it was obtained.   

 
23.  In  order  to  ensure  correctness  of  the  information  being  processed  in  credit 
information systems, CRAs may use other publicly available sources such as public 
registers,  provided  that  similar  sources  may  solely  be  used  in  the  same  form  as 
available  for  public  consumption  or  as  may  be  approved  by  the  Commissioner. 
Such data shall only be used to cross-check the information related to credit, with 
the aim of guaranteeing proper identification and representation of data subjects in 
the information system.  

 
24.  Personal data available in the credit information system may be accessed and used 
by  participants  for  the  sole  purpose  of  assessing  the  financial  situation  of  data 
subjects  prior  to  entering  into  a  credit  relationship  with  such  data  subjects,  in 
compliance  with  the  legal  obligations  established  under  the  Consumer  Credit 
Regulations  LN  330  of  2010,  and  to  monitor  similar  relationships  once  that  these 
are  established.  In  this  respect,  participants  shall  ensure  that  any  verification  on 
the  financial  status  of  a  data  subject  is  legitimate  and  necessary  in  line  with  the 
legal  obligations  established  under  the  abovementioned  instrument.  For  such 
reason,  any  evidence,  including  credit  applications  by  the  data  subjects,  or  any 
relevant  agreement  shall  be  retained  by  participants  for  a  period  of  3  years  to 
justify any access. 

 
 
 
Categories of personal data 
 
25.  The  following  data  categories  in  relation  to  data  subjects  having  defaulting  debts 

may be recorded in the credit information system:    

 

a)  Identification  details  which  shall  include  name,  surname,  address,  I.D.  card  or 

travel document number; 

b)  The  type  of  defaulting  debt  (i.e.  failing  to  honour  credit  applications 
/relationships, dishonoured cheques, and/or bills of exchange, and the amount 
due; 

c)  Court orders for settlement and executive warrants; 
d)  Other information made publicly available by the Courts.  

 
26.  Where the information is communicated by participants to the CRAs, identification 
details of the participant providing the information shall be recorded in the credit 
information system. Similar details shall remain accessible to the CRA and the data 
subject concerned, whilst they shall not be available to other participants.  

 
 
 
 

5 

 

Information to data subjects 
 
27.  The  processing  of  personal  data  in  credit  information  systems  shall  be  subject  to 
the  requirement  to  inform  data  subjects  with  the  intended  processes,  which 
information shall at least satisfy the conditions of articles 19 and 20 of the Act.  

 
28.  CRA’s  shall  have  specific  mechanisms  and  practices  in  place  which  facilitate  the 
provision of information by participants to data subjects, during the various phases 
of a credit application/ relationship.  

 
29.  At  the  time  of  considering  a  credit  application,  and  prior  to  carry  out  any 
verification  with  credit  information  systems,  a  participant  shall,  to  the  extent 
possible,  inform  the  data  subject  that  such  verifications  will  be  made  in  order  to 
assess creditworthiness of the data subject. 

 
30.  If the credit application is not granted on the basis of negative credit information, 
the participant shall inform the data subject with the relevant details in relation to 
the credit information system consulted and the CRA managing such system. 

 
31.  Upon  entering  into  a  credit  relationship,  the  participant  shall  inform  the  data 
subject  that  if  he  fails  to  honour  the  obligations  arising  from  such  relationship, 
information on defaulting debts will be disclosed to one or more CRAs in order to 
be  recorded  on  their  system(s)  and  made  available  to  participants.  The  business 
contact details relating to CRAs in which the participant is a member shall also be 
provided to the data subject.     

 
32.  The information mentioned above shall be provided by means of written notices. In 
those  cases  where  the  information  notice  is  provided  by  participants,  given  that 
direct contact will be possible with data subjects, it is recommended practice that 
such  information  notices  are  also  signed  by  the  data  subject.  In  these  cases,  the 
signed  notice  will  be  kept  by  participants  for  evidence  purposes,  while  the  copy 
will be provided to the data subjects. In those instances where a data subject pays 
by  cheque,  a  notice  affixed  on  the  cash  counter  is  considered  sufficient  to  inform 
data subjects on possible disclosures to CRAs in cases of defaults.  

 
33.  In  order  to  ensure  a  homogeneous  approach,  CRAs  are  encouraged  to  develop 
model  information  notices  which  may  be  used  to  provide  information  to  data 
subjects  as  specified  in  the  abovementioned  circumstances.  Such  model  notices 
shall be approved by the Commissioner.  

 
34.   Where CRAs process personal data concerning civil Court judgements or decisions, 
and  other  documents  which  are  made  publicly  available  under  the  Code  of 
Organisation and Civil Procedure, the obligation to inform data subjects about the 
intended  processing  does  not  apply,  given  that  Article  20(3)  of  the  Act,  excludes 
such  requirement  when  there  are  provisions  concerning  the  registration  or 
disclosure of personal data in any other law.  

 

6 

 

 
Retention of data  
 
35.  Personal data relating to defaulting debts which remain unsettled shall be retained 
in the credit information system for a maximum period of 6 years from the date of 
registration in the system.  

 
36.  In case of settlement or where a debt is otherwise no longer due, CRAs shall include 
such data in the credit information system clearly indicating that the debt has been 
settled or is no  longer  applicable.  All personal data concerning similar debts  shall 
be deleted from the system 18 months from the date when such liability becomes 
no longer due. 

 

37.  CRA’s may retain anonymous data in aggregate form purely for statistical purposes.  
 
 
Updating and Verification Procedures  
 
38.  CRAs shall verify and update personal data on a regular basis and in any case, shall 

review the validity of such personal data at least every year.  

 
39.  In cases where information relating to a defaulting debt has been communicated by 
participants, such entities responsible for the initial registration in the system, shall 
have the obligation to notify and update the CRA with any changes concerning the 
status and the current amount pending in relation to such debt. The CRA shall take 
the necessary steps in order to update the information accordingly.  

 
40.  Where information has been obtained from public sources, such verification should 
be  carried  out  with  the  public  source(s)  from  where  the  information  had  been 
derived. In the case  of publicly available data filed in  Court  regarding a debtor, in 
addition  to  verifications  with  the  public  source(s)  such  data  shall  also  be  cross-
checked with the creditor where possible. Where it emerges that following a Court 
Order  for  settlement,  the  creditor  offers  payment  terms  by  instalments  to  the 
debtor to settle the default, the CRA shall maintain close contact with the creditor 
where  possible  in  order  to  update  the  information  with  the  current  pending 
amount.  In  the  absence  of  additional  defaults  resulting  from  the  payments  by 
instalments  specified  above,  the  retention  shall  not  exceed  the  period  stipulated 
under point 35.  

 
41.  If further to verifications it emerges that a debt has been settled or is no longer due, 

the CRA shall take the necessary measures as specified under point 36.  

 
42.  Any  evidence  proving  that  verification  has  taken  place  shall  be  retained  for  a 

period of 1 year and shall be provided to the Commissioner upon request.  

 
 
 

7 

 

 
Rights of the data subjects 
 
43.  Data subjects shall be entitled to exercise their rights with respect to personal data 
recorded in the credit information system as stipulated under the Act. Such rights, 
namely the right of access, rectification, blocking or erasure, may be exercised both 
in  respect  of  the  CRAs  and  also  in  respect  of  participants  responsible  for 
communicating the data to the CRA.  

 
44.  Data  subjects  submitting  a  request  to  exercise  their  rights  shall  be  required  to 
provide  sufficient  details  to  the  CRA  or  participant,  together  with  a  proof  of  their 
identity for secure identification.  

 
45.  The CRA or participant receiving the request shall be responsible to deal with such 
request and to inform the data subject with the outcome. Given the nature of credit 
information  systems,  when  dealing  with  such  requests,  it  may  be  necessary  for 
CRAs  and  participants  to  work  in  close  cooperation,  and  where  appropriate  to 
consult, refer, or carry out specific verifications in order to provide the data subject 
with an effective remedy. However, where this cooperation is necessary, the rights 
of data subjects should be respected.  

 
46.  In  the  event  of  any  difficulty  or  disputes  between  CRAs  and  participants  when 
dealing with a request for access of data from the data subject, such issues shall be 
primarily  referred  to  the  Personal  Data  Representative  if  such  person  has  been 
appointed,  and  subsequently  to  the  Commissioner  for  the  necessary  guidance.  In 
any case, the data subject shall be entitled to seek further remedy directly from the 
Commissioner in line with the procedure established under the Act.   

 
 
Automated credit scoring techniques 
 
47.  Where  credit  information  systems  contain  automated  credit  scoring  techniques, 
the use of such functionality shall only be limited to assess a credit application or to 
manage credit relationships already set up. Personal data concerning credit scoring 
shall  be  processed  and  communicated  by  the  CRA  exclusively  to  the  participant 
having  received  a  credit  application  or  otherwise  already  involved  in  a  credit 
relationship with the same data subject. Information relating to credit scores may 
not  be  retained  in  the  credit  information  system,  nor  may  it  be  made  available  to 
other participants.  

 
48.  Where  the  participant  has  consulted  results  or  otherwise  obtained  information 
derived  from  automated  credit  scoring  techniques,  as  a  result  of  which,  a  credit 
application/ relationship is refused or negatively affected, the data subject shall be 
informed by the participant about the use of such techniques. In similar cases, the 
data subject shall be entitled, upon request, to receive further information from the 
participant regarding the logic involved in such systems and the main factors that 
were considered.  

8 

 

 
 
Security Measures 
 
49.  CRAs  and  participants  have  an  obligation  in  line  with  the  Act  to  implement 
appropriate technical and organisational security measures to protect the personal 
data being processed.  

 
50.  Any  access  to  the  credit  information  system  should  be  justified  and  therefore,  in 
order to ensure a secure management of such system, CRAs shall keep audit logs in 
relation  to  each  and  every  access  carried  out  by  its  administrators  and/or  users 
authorised by participants of the system. A security audit in relation to such access 
shall  be  carried  out  every  2  years.  Details  of  the  security  audits  shall  be  made 
available, upon request, to the Commissioner.   

 
 
Transition Period 
 
51.  CRAs  shall  be  required  to  implement  the  provisions  contained  in  such  guidelines 

one year from the date of adoption.  

 
 
 
Adopted on 15th October 2012 

9 

