1/12 

 

 

 

 

Decision of the Secretary General nr. 01/2020 of the 

24th of September 2020 

 

 

 

 

Concerning  :  Accreditation  requirements  for  code  of  conduct  monitoring  bodies  (AH-

2019-0106) 

 

The Secretary General of the Belgian Data Protection Authority (hereafter: “Secretary General”); 

 

Considering  the  law  of  3  December  2017 on the creation of the Data Protection Authority,  and  in 

particular article 20, §1, 6° (hereafter: “LCD”); 

 

Considering Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 

on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free 

movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Directive  95/46/EC  (General  Data  Protection  Regulation, 

hereafter: “GDPR”), and in particular articles 41.3, 57.1.(p), and 64.1(c) GDPR; 

 

Considering the law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of natural persons in relation to the processing 

of personal data, and in particular article 187 (hereafter: “LPP”); 

 

Considering  the  internal  rules  of  procedure  of  the  Belgian  Data  Protection  Authority  (hereafter: 

“Authority”), and in particular article 15 (hereafter: “ROP”); 

 

Considering the Guidelines 01/2019 on codes of conduct and monitoring bodies (hereafter “guidelines 

01/2019”) as adopted by the European Data Protection Board (hereafter: “EDPB”) on the 4th of June 

2019; 

 

Considering  the  Opinion  2/2020  on  the  Belgium  data  protection  supervisory  authority  draft 

accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR adopted 

on 28 January 2020 by the EDPB; 

 

Adopts on the 24th of September 2020 the following decision on the accreditation requirements for 

code of conduct monitoring bodies: 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 2/12 

I. 

Introduction 

1.  In accordance with article 41.1 GDPR and with the Guidelines 01/2019 adopted by the EDPB, 

national and transnational codes of conduct have to be monitored by a monitoring body that 

is accredited by the competent supervisory authority. The only exception to this rule lies in 

article 41.6 GDPR which stipulates that  an accredited monitoring body is  not  necessary for 

processing carried out by public authorities or bodies. 

 

2.  In accordance with the Guidelines 01/2019, §64 and §65, the monitoring body can be either     

external or internal to the code owner1. Examples of internal monitoring bodies could include 

an ad hoc internal committee or a separate independent department within the code owner. 

 

3.  To  be  accredited  by  the  Authority,  a  monitoring  body  has  to  fulfil  all  of  the  accreditation 

requirements  set  out  in  this  decision  based  on  the  requirements  of  article  41.2  GDPR  and 

section 12 of the Guidelines 01/2019. The monitoring body will retain its accreditation status 

unless the outcome of a review conducted by the Authority concludes that the requirements 

for accreditation are no longer met. 

 

4.  The  Authority  emphasises  that  pursuant  to  article  41.1  GDPR  and  the  Guidelines  01/2019, 

accreditation as a monitoring body is only possible in relation to the subject matter of one or 

more specific codes of conduct. 

 

5.  By the present decision the Authority encourages the development of codes of conduct for 

micro, small and medium companies to foster  a consistent implementation of the GDPR, to 

increase  legal  certainty  for  controllers  and  processors  and  to  strengthen  the  trust  of  data 

subjects. The requirement for codes of conduct to be monitored by an accredited monitoring 

body  should  not  be  an  obstacle  to  the  development  of  codes  of  conduct.  Therefore,  the 

application of the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies should take into account 

the specificities of each sectors’ processing and should be as flexible as possible while abiding 

by  the  legal  framework  imposed  by  the  GDPR,  the  Guidelines  01/2019  and  the  relevant 

Opinions of the EDPB. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                

1 Code owner refers to the associations or other bodies who draw up and submit their code. 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 3/12 

II. 

Accreditation criteria 

 

1.  Independence and impartiality  

 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate its independence and impartiality. The monitoring body shall 

demonstrate how its structure and its formal rules of appointment guarantee that it is able to act freely 

from instructions and that it shall be protected from any sort of interference or sanctions  from the 

code members or the code owner as a consequence of the fulfillment of its tasks.This needs to be 

demonstrated within four main areas: legal and decision-making procedures, financial, organizational 

and accountability. 

 

Requirement 1.1  

Legal and decision-making procedures 

-  The legal structure of the monitoring body, including its ownership, must shield the monitoring 

body from external influence. This might be demonstrated for example by submitting the following 

documents, the articles of incorporation of the monitoring body and the articles of incorporation 

of the code owner.  

-  The monitoring body’s decision-making procedures must ensure that the decision process from 

the conception of a decision to its implementation must shield the monitoring body from undue 

influence.  The  independence  and  impartiality  of  the  decision-making  procedure  might  be 

demonstrated for example  by submitting  the organigram of the monitoring body and the code 

owner;  a  description  of  the  decision-making  process  that  also  points  out  to  the  roles  and 

prerogatives of all parties involved in the decision-making process associated to a decision making 

procedure.  

 

Requirement 1.2  

Financial 

 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that the rules pertaining to its funding shall prevent the risk 

that a code member stops its financial contributions in order to avoid a corrective measure imposed 

by the monitoring body. This requirement can be fulfilled by providing for example explanations on 

the financial arrangements between the monitoring body and the members of the Code, including how 

the  amount  of  contribution  is  calculated,  the  frequency  at  which  the  contribution  is  paid  and  the 

financial arrangement in case of withdrawal of a code member.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 4/12 

Requirement 1.3  

Organisational  

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that it is able to freely choose, direct and manage its staff in 

order to fulfill its tasks. Whether the choice of staff is made by the monitoring body itself or through 

an external provider, the hiring process, the management and dismissal of the personnel shall not be 

influenced by  the code owner nor any code member. To fulfill this requirement, the monitoring body 

might for example provide evidence which includes job descriptions, personnel records, recruitment 

personnel resource allocations and line management arrangements .  

 

An internal monitoring body shall provide additional information concerning its relationship to its code 

owner to evidence its independence and impartiality. This shall be demonstrated with evidence that 

may include : 

information barriers; 

separate reporting obligations;  

separate operational staff;  

separate management functions. 

- 

- 

- 

- 

 

Requirement 1.4  

Accountability 

The  monitoring  body  shall  submit  a  document  that  explains  its  independence  and  impartiality  in 

respect to: 

- 

- 

the code members; 

the association or other body referred to by Recital 98 of the GDPR and article 40.2 GDPR, which 

has submitted a code of conduct for approval  

 

Accountability  can  be  demonstrated  by  providing  evidence  that  the  monitoring  body  set  out  a  

framework  for  its  roles  and  reporting  procedures  and  its  decision-making  process  to  ensure 

independence. Such evidence could include but is not limited to job descriptions, management reports 

and  policies  to  increase  awareness  among  the  personnel  about  the  governance  structures  and  the 

procedures in place (e.g. training). 

 

The  monitoring  body  shall  keep  documents  and  proof  of  the  respect  of  all  the  accreditation 

requirements and make them available to the Authority on request.  

 

The monitoring body shall keep a register of the actions taken in the framework of its tasks including 

where appropriate, date, duration, types of action taken,  code members concerned, reaction of the 

code member and outcome of the action. 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 5/12 

 

This register shall be made available to the Authority on request. 

 

2.  Absence of conflicts of interest 

 

Requirement 2.1 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate the absence of any conflict of interest related to the personnel 

of the monitoring body and related to the monitoring body itself.  

 

Conflicts of interest related to the personnel  

To this end the monitoring body shall have in place a documented procedure to prevent, detect and 

eliminate potential conflicts of interest that its employees and management staff may have.  

 

This procedure shall ensure that the previous and current functions of its employees and management 

staff do not prejudice their independence in the exercise of their tasks. 

 

The absence of a conflict of interest of employees and management staff may be demonstrated for 

example through the procedures for recruitment, their remuneration, disciplinary sanctions, the length 

of  their  employment  contract,  their  other  professional  occupations,  internal  staff  rules  and  the 

provisions of their employment contract.  

 
Conflicts of interest related to the monitoring body itself  

The monitoring body shall refrain from any action that is incompatible with its tasks and duties and 

shall not take instructions from any person, organisation or association.  

The Monitoring body shall identify situations that are likely to create a conflict of interest and set up 

internal rules in order to avoid conflicts of interest triggered by its activities, relationships, organisation 

or  procedures.  This  requirement  can  be  fulfilled  by  providing  for  example  evidences  such  as  the 

monitoring body’s risk management strategy.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 6/12 

3.  Expertise 

 
Requirement 3.1 

The  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  the  expertise  to  deliver  the  code  of  conduct’s  monitoring 

activities for the specific code that it will monitor. 

  

The monitoring body shall provide evidence of adequate expertise in the following domains: 

- 

- 

in-depth understanding of data protection legislation and experience in its implementation ; 

knowledge  and  experience  in  the  sector  or  processing  activity  for  which  it  will  act  as  a 

monitoring body; 

- 

knowledge and experience in auditing to establish its capacity to monitor compliance of the 

code members with the code of conduct. 

 

Additional  expertise  requirement  can  be  defined  by  a  code  of  conduct.  The  expertise  of  each 

monitoring body will be assessed in line with the expertise required by the particular code of conduct 

it monitors.  

 

Expertise may be demonstrated for example by submitting evidence of adequately trained, educated 

and experienced staff in these domains. For example through the means of  a diploma, certification 

and a proof of experience. 

 

Requirement 3.2 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that its level of expertise is commensurate with the risks for 

data subjects, the sensitivity and complexity of the processing that takes places within the context of 

the code of conduct, the  expected size of the sector concerned, and the  expected number of code 

members. 

 

Requirement 3.3 

The monitoring body shall guarantee to maintain an appropriate legal, technical, and auditing expertise 

through continuous professional development and training of its staff. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 7/12 

4.  Established procedures and structures  

 
 

Requirement 4.1 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that it has an appropriate governance framework in place to 

assess the eligibility of controllers and/or processors that wish to join the code of conduct as a code 

member. 

 

Requirement 4.2 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that it has an appropriate governance framework in place to 

continuously monitor compliance with the provisions of the code of conduct. 

  

 

This governance framework provides at least for: 

- 

a procedure that provides for plans for audits to be carried out over a defined period of time 

(recurring  and  ad hoc)  based  on  criteria  such  as  the  risks  for  data  subjects,  the  sensitivity  and 

complexity of the processing that takes places within the context of the code of conduct, the expected 

number of code members and size of the sector concerned, the geographical scope and the received 

complaints; 

- 

an audit methodology, which specifies the set of criteria to be assessed, the type of audits 

and the documentation of these findings;  

a procedure to identify, investigate and remedy infringements to the code of conduct;   

regular reporting obligations for the code members. 

- 

- 

 

Requirement 4.3 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that it is composed of an adequate number of  staff so that it 

is able to carry out its monitoring functions appropriately.  

 

The  amount  and  type  of  human  resources  required  depend  on  the  risks  for  data  subjects,  the 

sensitivity and complexity of the processing that takes places within the context of the code of conduct, 

the  expected  size  of  the  sector  concerned,  and  the  expected  number  of  code  members.  This 

requirement  might  be  fulfilled  by  providing  for  example  an  organigram  of  the  monitoring  body 

describing the roles and number of staff assigned to each task.  

 

Requirement 4.4 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that its employees are bound by a confidentiality duty in the 

course of their tasks. 

 

 

 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 8/12 

Requirement 4.5 

The  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  that  it  has  sufficient  funding  and  financial  sustainability  to 

fulfill its tasks (as per requirement 8.4) 

 

 

 

5.  Complaints and Sanctions  

Requirement 5.1 

The monitoring body shall establish a procedure to handle complaints. This procedure should also be 

detailed in the monitored code of conduct.  

 

This  procedure  shall  deal  with  complaints  introduced  by  data  subjects,  and  body,  organisation  or 

association referred to in article 80 of the GDPR against the code members.  

 

This procedure shall stipulate the form of the complaint (in writing or electronically), a point of contact 

in charge of handling the complaint, the process of handling the complaint, and the different outcomes 

of resolution as determined in the monitored code of conduct. 

  

This procedure shall be made publicly available and transparent. 

 

Requirement 5.2 

The monitoring body shall acknowledge receipt of the complaint. 

 

The complainant shall be notified on the progress or outcome of the complaint at the latest within 

three months from the receipt of its complaint. 

 

The period to resolve the complaint may be extended by a reasonable period where necessary, taking 

into account the complexity of the complaint. The monitoring body shall inform the complainant of 

any such extension within three months of receipt of the complaint, together with the reasons for the 

delay. 

 

Requirement 5.3 

The monitoring body shall establish a register of all complaints received and ensure that decisions of 

the body are made publicly available.  Furthermore, the monitoring body shall publish, on a regular 

basis, statistical data with the result of the monitoring activities, such as the number of complaints 

received, the type of infringements and the corrective measures issued.  

 
 
 
 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 9/12 

Requirement 5.4 
 
The monitoring body shall provide evidence of suitable corrective measures, as defined in the code of 

conduct, in cases of infringement to the code to stop the infringement and avoid future re-occurrence. 

Such sanctions could also include, training, issuing a  warning, report to the board  of the member, 

formal notice requiring action, suspension or exclusion from the code. 

 
 

 

6.  Communication  

Requirement 6.1 

The  monitoring  body  shall  annually  communicate  to  the  Authority  a  report  with  an  overview  its 

activities and decisions. 

 

The monitoring body shall also communicate to the Authority any action taken in case of infringement 

of the code of conduct and the reasons for this action. The frequency of this communication depends 

on the risks for data subjects, the sensitivity and complexity of data processing that takes places within 

the context of the code of conduct, the expected size of the sector concerned, the expected number 

of code members, the seriousness and frequency of infringements and the measures taken as set by 

the Code of Conduct itself.  

 

Requirement 6.2 

The monitoring body shall have a procedure in place to communicate to the Authority without delay: 

- 

any  substantial  change  to  its  organisation  and/or  structure  which  could  affect  its  ability  to 

perform its function impartially, independently and effectively. Such substantial changes may include:  

o 

o 

o 

 

a change in legal, commercial and organisational status;  

a change in the organisation’s senior management and key staff;  

a change in the financial resources and location of the monitoring body; 

o  

Significant changes in the number of code members 

any suspension or exclusion of a code members;   

any substantial infringement to the code of conduct as well as information outlining details of 

 

- 

- 

the infringement and action taken.   

    

Requirement 6.3 

The  monitoring  body  shall  have  a  procedure  in  place  to  make  publicly  available  the  following 

information: 

- 

- 

- 

a general description of the funding mechanisms of the monitoring body; 

information about the procedures for handling complaints; 

information about the monitored code of conduct and the monitoring mechanism (including 

the procedures mentioned in requirements 6.1, 6.2, 7.1 and 7.2, the rules and procedures for granting, 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 10/12 

maintaining, suspending, excluding and withdrawing code membership) as set out in the rules and 

procedure of the code of conduct monitored;  

- 

all corrective measures leading to exclusion from the code of conduct as set out in the rules 

and procedure of the code of conduct monitored. 

 
 

7.  Review Mechanisms  

 

Requirement 7.1 

The monitoring body shall set up procedures to take into account a modification of the legal framework 

impacting the substance of the provisions of the code of conduct. 

 

 

Requirement 7.2 

The monitoring body shall contribute appropriately to the review of the code of conduct’s operation 

and set up mechanisms to enable feedback to the code owner and to any other entity referred to in 

the code of conduct. For example, set up an annual reporting obligation on the operation of the Code 

to the code owner and any other entity referred to in the Code of conduct  

 
 

8.  Legal status and organisational structure 

 
Requirement 8.1 

The monitoring body shall indicate whether it acts as an internal or external monitoring body in relation 

to the code owner. 

 

Requirement 8.2 

Regardless  of  its  legal  form,  the  monitoring  body  shall  have  appropriate  legal  standing  to  be  held 

accountable, to carry out its role under article 41(4) GDPR and to be capable of being fined as par 

article 83.4.c) GDPR. 

 

Requirement 8.3 

The monitoring body shall be established within the European Economic Area (“EEA”). 

 

Requirement 8.4 

The  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  the  sustainability  and  continuity  of  its  monitoring  activities 

over time and specifically in relation to the fact that it has set up procedures to ensure: 

- 

- 

 

sufficient financial resources (as per requirement 4.5); 

sufficient staff to fulfill its tasks (as per requirement 4.3);  

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 11/12 

 

Requirement 8.5 

The monitoring body shall formally commit to comply with all relevant legislation and in particular the 

provisions of the GDPR. 

 

Requirement 8.6 

When marks, signs,  or similar tools are used to  warrant compliance with the code of conduct, the 

monitoring body shall initiate suitable action in case of any fraudulent use (E.g. incorrect references 

or misleading use) of such marks, signs, or similar tools. 

 

 

9.  Subcontractors 

Requirement 9.1 

When the monitoring body engages a subcontractor to fulfills some of its tasks, the monitoring body 

remains responsible for all activities sub-contracted. 

 

Requirement 9.2 

The monitoring body shall specify the tasks and roles that the subcontractors will carry out when it 

applies for accreditation. 

 

Requirement 9.3 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that the subcontractor satisfies all relevant requirements set 

out in this decision and in particular requirements 1; 2; 3; 8.5. 

 

The  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  that  the  subcontractor  is  effectively  bound  by  these 

requirements and can deliver compliance on them. 

 

Requirement 9.4 

Without  prejudice  to  requirement  6.3,  the  monitoring  body  shall  have  a  procedure  in  place  to 

communicate to the Authority without delay all substantial changes relating to a subcontractor that 

have  an impact on the organisation  and/or structure  of the monitoring  body  which  could affect its 

ability to perform its function effectively. Such substantial changes may include: 

o 

o 

the termination of the agreement with the subcontractor; 

the replacement of the subcontractor by a new one. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

... 

Decision SG 01/2020 - 12/12 

10. Language 

 

Requirement 10.1 

All  supporting  documentation  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  these  requirements  shall  be 

submitted in Dutch, French or any different language at the discretion of the Authority. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(signed) David Stevens 

Secretary General 

 

 

