




Press Release - Chair of the Data Protection Conference 2018
Applicability of the Telemedia Act-Invitation to discuss with the data protection supervisory authorities







No.20180601
|
06/01/2018
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

The ePrivacy Regulation is intended to clarify and supplement the General Data Protection Regulation with regard to electronic communication. However, it is no longer expected that it will come into force in 2018.
The data protection conference has positioned itself on questions of the applicability of national law in addition to the General Data Protection Regulation: The data protection regulations of the Telemedia Act have no longer been applicable since May 25, 2018. The European General Data Protection Regulation, which is now directly applicable, supersedes the national law of the member states. Based on this, the supervisory authorities have also presented their understanding of enforcement in connection with range measurements and the use of tracking mechanisms on the Internet.
This published position determination was controversially discussed by the interested public. The determination of the position can be accessed here: https://www.ldi.nrw.de/mainmenu_Datenschutz/submenu_Technik/ Inhalt/TechnikundOrganization/ Inhalt/Zur-Applicability-des-TMG-fuer-nicht-oeffentliche-Stellen-ab-dem-25_- May-2018/Positioning-TMG.pdf
As part of a concentrated hearing, the data protection conference invites you to comment on the implementation of the position determination - in particular on questions of the design in practice.
Stakeholders should submit their statements via their respective associations and representatives to the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision, which has taken over the coordination of the data protection conference:
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection SupervisionPromenade 2791522 Ansbachpoststelle@lda.bayern.de. Entries should be submitted by Friday, June 29, 2018.
Data protection conferenceThe data protection conference consists of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments. It has the task of safeguarding and protecting basic data protection rights, achieving uniform application of European and national data protection law and working together to promote its further development.
Press distribution list of the Virtual Data Protection Office – www.datenschutz.de
To be included in the press mailing list, please send an email with the subject line "subscribe" to vpo-presse-list-request@lists.datenschutz.de.
-- North Rhine-Westphalia State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
Daniel Strunk spokesman
Kavalleriestr. 2-4, 40213 Düsseldorf Tel.: 0211-38424-62 Fax: 0211-38424-10 General e-mail address: poststelle@ldi.nrw.de Internet: www.ldi.nrw.de Public key for general e-mail address: www.ldi. nrw.de/metanavi_Kontakt/key_ldi.asc









                Back to overview









