 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

 

 
  

. 

 NHS Foundation 

 
The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK 
General Data Protection Regulation in respect of certain infringements of 
the UK GDPR.   
 
The MOJ is the data controller for HMP
Trust also provides healthcare services into the prison. As a result some 
of the confidential waste held by the prison contained confidential medical 
records. 
 
A security incident occurred on 26 February 2022. 14 bags of confidential 
waste were found in an unsecured holding area in the prison which both 
prisoners and staff had access to. A shredder would usually collect the 
confidential waste. On this occasion the shredder lorry did not collect the 
bags within the allotted time leaving them unsecured, for a period of 18 
days in total. 
 
In addition to being in an unsecured location, some of the bags had not 
been sealed or shredded correctly and contained information relating to 
both prison staff and prisoners. This included medical data, security 
vetting details and a 
 
During this period we are aware that 44 individuals potentially viewed the 
information contained in the confidential waste bags. 
prisoners were 
identified as having removed information. 
 
Despite evidence of certain staff challenging prisoners who were seen to 
read papers contained in the bags, the staff did not subsequently report 
that confidential waste was being stored in the unsecure area. It is 
established that there were no pre-agreed areas for staff to leave 
confidential waste securely at HMP 
 
The prison does not hold accurate data on the number of staff that had 
completed data protection training at the time of the incident. 
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to the MOJ in respect 
of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 

 Report 

. 

. 

 

1 

 

•  Article 5(1)(f) - Security and Article 32(1)(d) & (2) which 

state: 

 
Article 5(1)(f) 
 
Personal data shall be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate 
security of the personal data, including protection against unauthorised or 
unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, 
using appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
confidentiality’). 
 
Article 32(1) 
 
Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and 
the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risk 
of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural 
persons, the controller and the processor shall implement appropriate 
technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security 
appropriate to the risk, including inter alia as appropriate: 
 
(d) a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the 
effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring the 
security of the processing. 
 
Article 32(2) 
 
In assessing the appropriate level of security account shall be taken in 
particular of the risks that are presented by processing, in particular from 
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised 
disclosure of, or access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise 
processed. 
 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below. 
 
 
Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1)(d) & (2) 
 
The MOJ had not implemented the appropriate technical and 
organisational measures to ensure the security of the personal data in this 
case. As a consequence, data was left unsecured in an accessible area to 

 

2 

. The prison should have 

 System, and does not make specific 

 reports relates to the prison’s general 

 This would have mitigated the risks of inappropriate 

other prisoners and prison staff. 
 
Lack of robust policies 
 
Whilst is it noted that the MOJ had policies in operation that clearly 
emphasise the need to securely shred records, there was no specific 
instructions provided to prison staff in relation to the designated storage 
areas for confidential waste prior to its disposal. Clarity in this regard 
would likely have prevented the waste bags from being left in an 
unsecure area by prison staff. 
 
The established processes for holding and disposing of confidential waste 
were not sufficient at the time of the incident. 
 
The guidance in relation to 
use of its 
reference to the appropriate handling of 
established more granular instructions for staff for the handling or 
disposing of 
disclosure. 
 
Whilst data breach reporting and guidance documents were in place at 
the time of the incident, the ICO has been provided with minimal 
evidence to demonstrate that established data incident reporting 
requirements, were sufficiently reinforced to prison staff at appropriate 
intervals. Staff lacked understanding of the risks and need to report the 
data breach. 
 
The prison staff involved in placing the confidential waste in the unsecure 
area were found to have a lack of awareness of processes for handling 
sensitive and confidential waste. Furthermore, staff were not aware of the 
need to shred information prior to its disposal and did not understand the 
risk of using prisoners to move confidential waste. 
 
Whilst it is established that data protection training is in place, there were 
no robust measures in place to ensure that staff were completing the 
mandatory training. 
 
The completion of such training by prison staff is crucial to embedding a 
culture of risk awareness and confidence in identifying potential data 
breaches. Had this training been undertaken in line with established 

 

3 

requirements, staff would have been more likely to recognise their 
responsibilities in appropriately securing the confidential waste and/or 
reporting the data breach incident at an earlier stage. 
 
Severity of breach 
 
It has been established that up to 44 individuals viewed the information 
contained in the confidential waste bags. As a result the risks to 
individuals in the prison would be significant and include potential 
identification within the prison or outside in the wider community. There 
would also be a significant risk of intimidation by other prisoners. Outside 
of the individuals incarcerated, there is also the risk of unwarranted 
attention of family members if identified. 
 
Mitigating factors 

In the course of our investigation, we have noted that: 
 
a) Once the breach was discovered, the waste bags were transferred to a 
secure location by a staff member within the prison. 
 
b) The incident was reported to the prison’s Information Security Team 
via email and senior staff and the 
 were 
also informed of the incident for oversight purposes. An internal 
investigation commenced. 
 
c) The cells of the 
 prisoners initially identified as having accessed the 
waste bags were searched with no information found and relevant CCTV 
footage reviewed to identify other prisoners who had access to the data.  
 
Remedial steps taken by the MOJ 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by the MOJ in light of this incident. In particular HMP 
 has 
implemented a new process to ensure all confidential waste is collected 
within the allocated time slot. Secure areas have now been identified for 
confidential waste and staff made aware of the new procedure. Sufficient 
shredders have now been brought on site, to ensure prior shredding of 
confidential waste can be completed. 
 
Additionally, guidance will be issued to staff by HMP 

 report disseminations. In particular, any disseminated 

moving forward will contain instructions on appropriate handling and 

 

4 

 for future 
 reports 

disposal. 
 
Decision to issue reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to the MOJ in relation to the infringements of Articles 
5(1)(f) and 32(1)(d) & (2) of the UK GDPR as set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that the MOJ should take certain steps to 
ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular reference to Articles 
5(1)(f), 32(1)(d) and 32(2) of the UK GDPR, the following steps are 
recommended: 
 
1) The MOJ should conduct a thorough review of all established data 
protection policies, procedures and guidance documents to ensure that 
these remain adequate for purpose and reference up to date legislation.  
 
For example, it is noted that its Information Security Policy currently 
references the DPA 1998, its Information Security Policy Framework 
references GDPR rather than UK GDPR and its ‘Records, Information 
Management and Retention Policy’ has not been updated since 2018. 
 
2) As part of this process, the MOJ could consider the creation of a 
separate data breach reporting policy and procedure for its staff 
(incorporating its incident reporting template) in place of its current 
inclusion in wider information security policies (ie to highlight the 
significance of the process). 
 
3) Residual risks posed to affected individual(s) as a result of the 
disseminated and later exposed 
ensure these are sufficiently mitigated. 
 
4) A data processing agreement or similar contract between the prison 
and the Trust should be formed, to outline any established controllership 
responsibilities surrounding the handling and eventual destruction of Trust 
data processed at the prison. 
 
5) The MOJ should ensure that any further remedial actions outlined in its 

 reports should be tested in future to 

 

5 

correspondence to the ICO (particularly those related to staff training) are 
completed in a timely manner. 
 
MOJ should provide the ICO with a progress update on the above 
recommendations in six months’ time, ie by 27 October 2023. 
 
 

 

6 

