1/14

Litigation Chamber
 
Decision on the merits 29/2020 of 8 June 2020

 

 

 
File number: DOS-2019-03885
 
Subject: Complaint by Mr. X against Mrs. Y – use of a professional e-mail address
for claiming maintenance costs in the context of a family dispute
 
The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke
Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Dirk Van Der Kelen and Christophe Boeraeve, members, resumes
the case in its present composition;
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the
Data Protection), hereinafter GDPR;
 
Having regard to the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter
“ACL”;
 
Having regard to the Law of 30 July 2018 relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data, hereinafter the “Data Protection Law”;
 
Having regard to the internal rules of the Data Protection Authority as approved by the
Chamber of Representatives on December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;
 
Seen the documents in the file
 
 

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 2/14

Made the following decision regarding:

-
-

the plaintiff and defendant on counterclaim: Mr. X,;
the defendant and plaintiff on counterclaim: Mrs. Y.

 
 
 

I.

History of the procedure

Having regard to the complaint filed on July 15, 2019 by Mr. X with the Data Protection Authority;
 
Having regard to the decision of August 6, 2019 of the Frontline Service of the Data Protection Authority
declaring the complaint admissible and forwarding it to the Litigation Chamber at the same
date;
  
Given the decision taken by the Litigation Chamber on August 26, 2019 to consider that the file was
ready for substantive processing under Articles 95 § 1, 1° and 98 LCA;
 
Having regard to the registered letter of August 26, 2019 by which the Litigation Division firstly transmitted
the complaint and the documents to the defendant and also invited the parties to present their arguments
according to an established schedule;
 
Considering the e-mail of September 12, 2019 by which the complainant requests a copy of the file and asks
to receive any communication electronically. Considering the copy of the file which was transmitted to him
by e-mail of September 12, 2019 by the Litigation Chamber;
 
Having regard to the email of September 16, 2019 in which the defendant asks to communicate its conclusions
electronically and the response by e-mail from the Litigation Chamber of September 17, 2019
reiterating the procedure to be followed for this purpose;
 
Having regard to the first conclusions of the defendant, received on September 24, 2019;
 
Having regard to the complainant's conclusions, received on October 14, 2019;
 
Having regard to the defendant's reply, received on November 6, 2019.
 
 
 
 

II.

The facts and the subject of the complaint

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 3/14

at

of

his

4 p.m.,

2019

address

to use

abstain

 
The plaintiff, Mr. X, ex-spouse of the defendant, Mrs. Y, was awarded primary custody of
their daughter Z following a family court judgment and arranging the distribution of costs
education1. The complaint relates to the defendant's use of the professional e-mail address
of the complainant to communicate the quarterly statement of expenses concerning their child, within the framework
of the execution of the judgment reached2.
 
In his complaint, Mr. X explains that he asked by e-mail addressed to Mrs. Y, very precisely, on 30
June
E-mail
"X@V.com" in copy of communications related to expenses (in particular medical) and grievances relating
in the care of their child. On this occasion, Mr. X explained to the defendant that this e-mail is
consulted by third parties, so that the complainant's transmission of her correspondence via this e-
mail constitutes from his point of view a major breach of the GDPR: “Please do not use the address
email V since I have not worked in this company for years and therefore your correspondence
are read by the system administrators (professional email address owned by V), which
constitutes a major infringement from the point of view of the GDPR regulation on your part”. Four hours
later, however, the defendant uses the e-mail address of the company V in cc of its answer in
which it includes new grievances relating to the execution of the judgment.
 
By return e-mail, on June 30, 2019 at 8:17 p.m., the complainant recalled that he had expressly requested
that his former employer is not made aware of these exchanges. He emphasizes that it is his
notice of disclosure to third parties of confidential data relating to a minor child,
and announces that he will file a complaint with the Data Protection Authority.
 
 
 

III.

The defendant's submissions

 
In its conclusions of September 24, 2019, in response to the complaint, the defendant sets out the
status as follows:
 

                                                
1 The Litigation Division takes note of the existence of this judgment to which the parties refer without, however,
produce as part. The Litigation Division therefore relies on the description given by the parties with regard to
the content of this judgement, and assumes that the mode of transmission of the quarterly statements of expenditure was not provided for therein.
2 Since the text of the judgment was not submitted as an exhibit, the Litigation Chamber relies on the description – no
contested - what the parties do with it and understands, given the nature of the complaint and the ensuing debates, that the terms of
communication between the parties have not been settled in this judgment nor any other document relating to the procedure
of divorce between the parties.

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 4/14

“The facts presented by Mr. X are inaccurate and out of context.

(1) Mr. X does not provide any proof that he worked at company V and that this address gave him
belongs/belonged and in what role. Before the Family Court he never confirmed
having worked for this company, citing very low incomes in Belgium. Besides, there is
has no automatic response from the email address
X@V.com. Does it still exist, is it verified, if so by whom? It's amazing from a
company the size of V not to put an automatic answer for people who
send messages to this email address.

 

 

 

(2) Mr. X has consented to the use of this email. He never reacted, nor opposed, nor did
remarks for whole months when I used this email to communicate with
him. As you see in his proofs, he has not objected since March 2019.
June 2019, after receiving the judgment of the Family Court in a case concerning
our common child, that he shows his disagreement and threatens with legal proceedings.

(3) Mr. X uses my professional address Y@W.be (as you see in the documents
filed by Mr. X) without my agreement in relation to the file concerning my daughter. I do not
I never gave him my work email. By this, I would like to file a complaint, in
counterclaim, against Mr. X, to use since 2018 my professional email for
exchanges concerning my minor daughter Z.”

The second argument below refers to an email exchange from April 2019, produced by the
defendant in his complaint (exhibit 1.2), and where requests for reimbursement of various treatments have
summer
and
“Y@W.be”.

“X@V.com”

trades,

use

the address

E-mail

with

of

 
 
 

IV.

The complainant's conclusions

 
In his conclusions of October 14, 2019, in addition to his complaint, the complainant specifies that
the professional e-mail address in question assigned to it by company V as part of a
service contract concluded in the past, and that, according to him, the absence of response or failure report
following the defendant's e-mails, proves that the address is active and that the e-mails sent to it
addressed are consulted by company V with a view, he assumes, to extracting relevant information
for its business activities.
 
The complainant does not demonstrate that he would have complained about the use of this e-mail address before the 30
June 2019. The plaintiff also asserts that the defendant never communicated to him the slightest
ban on using the “W” email address. Ms. Y's professional email address would not be at her

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 5/14

knowledge read only by Mrs Y on the grounds that this person is the sole manager of the company "W",
and therefore, no information would be passed by the complainant to third parties unless the
defendant does it itself.
 
The plaintiff therefore seeks to "order the defendant to pay the highest amount, in
relation to his duly and formally proven will to withdraw voluntarily and
deliberately to the provisions of the General Data Regulation with the proven aim of harming them”.
 
 
 

v.

The defendant's reply

 
By e-mail of November 6, 2019, the defendant formulates its last reply as follows:
 

“Mr. X still does not provide any proof of his work within company V. This
email address really exist? Was it attributed to him or to another person with the
same name ? We also know nothing about the use of this email by Mr. X. When
did he work and for how long for company V? In what role? Mr X hides
deliberately his work as a consultant for third-party companies before the Family Court.
Mr. X still does not explain why, for 4 months, he did not oppose my
few (3 in total) shipments to this email. He filed a complaint against me only after receiving
the judgment of the Family Court. We will have to wonder why he is depositing
complaint against me only during the summer.
Mr. X does not deny having used my professional email. He doesn't explain why he does it.
Mr. X does not present the damages he suffered because of my use of this email -
which we still do not know if it ever belonged to him - but he is asking for a fine. His
explanations rather show a personal frustration with the judgment of the Court of
Family and a hatred against me. I ask the Tribunal to consider this request which
is more a matter of personal hatred.”

 
 
 

VI.

On the reasons for the decision

On the context of the complaint and the advisability of dealing with it
 
The Litigation Chamber takes due note of the fact that the complaint is made within the framework of
execution of a judgment of the Family Court and concerns the channel of communication chosen by
the defendant to execute the judgment and send quarterly statements of expenses to the plaintiff, to

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 6/14

know, in particular, the business address of the complainant3. The Litigation Chamber considers that the
plaintiff would have been well advised to ask the APD front-line service about it, and
could have requested mediation in order to clarify for each of the parties the channel of communication
suitable for executing the judgment entered.
 
The first-line service of the Data Protection Authority, if it had received a request
(request for information within the meaning of Article 22 § 2 LCA) and not a complaint, could have ordered the
parties to use their personal and non-professional email addresses in the future. In particular, the
Front line service could have informed the defendant of the need to choose the channel of
suitable (non-professional) communication with the other party to refrain from communicating at all
third parties who do not have to know the personal data concerned by the complaint, namely, the
data relating to the dispute with her ex-husband before the Family Court and the data of
the health of his daughter, which are also health data justifying protection
particular according to Article 9 of the GDPR.
 
In this case, the Litigation Division deemed it appropriate to hear the arguments of the parties,
insofar as the facts related in the complaint relate in particular to the health data of a
minor child and involve potential harm to the complainant's professional life. He imports
in particular to the Litigation Chamber to clarify the good practices to be implemented in
similar situations, involving the personal data of minors in the context of the execution of
family court judgments. However, the Litigation Chamber does not intend to encourage the
submission of complaints in this context and reserves the right, depending on the case, to classify such
complaints with a view to referring the parties to a mediation procedure with the Service de
First line.
 
It is certainly the responsibility of the Data Protection Authority to facilitate the exercise of complaints (art. 57.2 of the
GDPR), but not to encourage the hasty lodging of complaints without leaving room for mediation
and prior reflection, as in the present case where the complainant addressed his complaint to the DPA,
according to the documents provided, only a few hours after notifying the defendant of its intention
not to receive his daughter's expense reports via his professional email address "@V.com", and
even though it appears from the complainant's own documents that in April 2018, he addressed the
correspondence relating to his daughter's expense reports simultaneously to the "hotmail" address and to
the defendant's "@W.be" address (Exhibit 1.2 of the complaint) and while it also appeared in
course of proceedings that this "W" e-mail address is of a professional nature and corresponds to the
SPRL of which the defendant is the manager.

                                                
3 Since the text of the judgment was not submitted as an exhibit, the Litigation Chamber relies on the description given by
the parties and understands, given the nature of the dispute, that the terms of communication between the parties have not been settled
in this judgment.

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 7/14

 
On the jurisdiction of the Litigation Chamber to take cognizance of the request
counterclaim introduced by the defendant by way of conclusion
 
The Litigation Chamber intends to specify the extent of its jurisdiction with regard to the request
of sanction formulated by the plaintiff against the complainant, as a “counterclaim” by
way of conclusion. The rules of procedure of the Litigation Chamber, as set out in the LCA
and the ROI do not provide for the ability to submit such requests. This is a mechanism described
and framed in the Judicial Code (articles 807 and following), which as such does not apply from
suppletive way to the Litigation Chamber whose procedure is specific, of an inquisitorial nature
more than adversarial, for the reasons set out in decision on the merits no. 17/2020 from April 28
2020.
 
The Litigation Chamber is an administrative body of the Data Protection Authority and in
as such, is not part of the courts and tribunals of the judiciary, as specified in article 4
§ 2 of the ACL. The Litigation Chamber is the "administrative litigation body" of the Authority of
Data Protection (art. 32 LCA). Its dispute resolution procedure is administrative and
non-jurisdictional4.
 
The decisions of the Litigation Chamber are subject to full jurisdiction appeal to a
Court of the judiciary, namely, the Court of Markets. This recourse mechanism guarantees the
respect for the rights of the defense in that it allows the Litigation Chamber to decide on points
civil law while being an administrative body, and therefore not subject to the Code
judicial5.
 
If it is not familiar with the counterclaim mechanism of the Judicial Code, the Chamber
litigation may, however, take into account facts or grievances subsequently developed by way of
conclusion by the parties insofar as these are facts or legal arguments related to the infringement
of which it has been seized by complaint, and in compliance with the rights of the defence. The
jurisdiction of the Litigation Chamber is in fact based on the factual elements presented to it
provided in the complaint, under article 92, 1° LCA.
 
The Litigation Chamber is nevertheless not competent to carry out a self-referral relatively
to facts or grievances that are unrelated to the facts and grievances related in the initial complaint. In
this measure, if the defendant considered it appropriate to introduce its own grievances against the

                                                
4 See opinion 61 267/AV of the Council of State of 15 June 2017 on the nature of the Litigation Chamber as a body
judicial or administrative. The ACL Bill has been amended to remove any uncertainty regarding
the administrative nature of this body, both in its composition and in its procedural dimension (DOC 54 2648, p. 8).
5 CA Brussels, 23 October 2019, 2019/AR/1234, p. 17, footnote 1.

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 8/14

complainant, it was his responsibility to lodge a new complaint with the Frontline Service of
the Data Protection Authority. In such a case, the Litigation Chamber can then
decide to treat such complaints as related when they are linked together by a relationship
so narrow that there is an interest in investigating them and settling them together, in order to avoid solutions
contradictory6.
 
In this case, in response to the complaint, the defendant, brought to the attention of the Chamber
litigation a new fact, namely, the use by the plaintiff of his professional address to
Communicate about the enforcement of the family court judgment. The Litigation Chamber
cannot agree to treat this new fact as a counterclaim aimed at penalizing
the complainant. The Litigation Chamber is however competent to examine this new fact in relation
with the facts of the complaint, to determine whether or not there may be mitigating circumstances
or aggravating on the part of the defendant within the meaning of Article 83 of the GDPR, depending on whether or not it is
proved that the complainant would have adopted the same behavior towards him as that alleged in the
facts of the complaint, and insofar as the Litigation Division deems it appropriate to impose a
sanction.
 
 
On breaches of the GDPR
 
The use of an e-mail address for sending messages, in the case of data processing to
personal nature, must be done on the basis of an adequate legal basis among the possibilities offered
in Article 6 of the GDPR (for example, the fulfillment of a legal obligation, the legitimate interest, the
consent, etc).
  
In this case, according to the information sent to the Litigation Chamber, the judgment of the Tribunal
of the family ordered the sending of a quarterly statement of expenses to the plaintiff without specifying the method of
communication to adopt. By default, this should be sent to the complainant's postal address (given
personal in principle public) or to the e-mail address that he would have indicated for this purpose, normally
the private email address. In these circumstances, the Litigation Chamber considers that the only basis
Adequate legal basis for the processing of this professional e-mail address would be consent (Art.
6.1, a GDPR), and that the defendant cannot invoke a legitimate interest (art. 6.1, f GDPR) for
justify this data processing, as set out in more detail below.
 

                                                
6 The Litigation Division does not rule out that the legislator may one day consider it appropriate to clarify this point of procedure in a
royal decree specifying the LCA on this point. Such a provision was, for example, introduced in the Royal Decree of 26 January 2018
laying down the procedure for settling disputes mentioned in article 4 of the law of 17 January 2003 concerning appeals and
processing of disputes on the occasion of the law of 17 January 2003 relating to the status of the regulator of the postal and
Belgian telecommunications (M.B. 8 February 2018).

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 9/14

 Absence of legal bases for the processing of the personal data concerned

 
The onus is on the defendant to demonstrate that she would have received consent to use the address
Complainant's professional e-mail "@V.com" for the transmission of his daughter's expense reports. The
defendant does not provide proof of such an agreement. On the basis of the factual elements which are
transmitted, the Litigation Division finds that the defendant used at least once the address
professional e-mail of the defendant without having the necessary consent for this purpose, namely,
by disregarding on June 30, 2019 the plaintiff's express request not to use this address.
Therefore, the defendant infringed Article 6.1, a of the GDPR.
 
In both cases, the parties do not provide proof of the existence of a dispute as to the
the use of their respective professional addresses (@V.com and @W.com) before the exchange
email of June 30, 2019 which gave rise to the complaint. The Chamber, however, takes note of the clarification
provided by each of the parties as to their wish that their business address no longer be
used in the future in connection with the execution of the judgment of the Family Court in question.
 
It is incumbent on the defendant to have an adequate legal basis to proceed with the sending by e-
email of his child's personal data, including health data. As it happens,
the data in question could be legitimately processed in the context of the execution of the judgment
between the parties insofar as it was a processing "necessary for compliance with a
legal obligation” to which the defendant, responsible for processing this data, is subject,
namely, to send the expense reports to the plaintiff (art. 6.1, c GDPR). It is also permitted to
process health data when the processing is “necessary” for the exercise or defense
a right to legal action (art. 9.1, f GDPR).
 
The same legal basis obligation concerns the sending by e-mail of personal data relating to a
family litigation with the opposing party. In this case, the data in question could
also be legitimately processed in the context of the execution of the judgment entered into between the
parties, also being processing "necessary for compliance with a legal obligation" to
to which the defendant is subject (art. 6.1, c of the GDPR). As stated in the complaint, indeed,
the defendant “must establish and send quarterly a statement of expenses concerning” the child
common to the parties.
 
However, this processing of personal data must be limited to the purpose pursued, namely
enforcement of a court decision (Art. 5.1 GDPR). These treatments must also be
carried out in compliance with the security (confidentiality) of this data (art. 32 GDPR). That implies
in particular not to communicate personal data, a fortiori health data,
in such a way that they risk being disclosed to third parties who do not need to know about them. Such a

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 10/14

transmission of personal data to third parties would disregard the security and purpose of the processing,
as permitted by articles 6.1, a and c juncto 9.1, f of the GDPR, namely, the execution of the judgment.
 
It is up to each of the parties to ensure that the mode of communication used guarantees a
adequate level of security (confidentiality) for the data of the opposing party and the data of
the health of the child concerned, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the data thus communicated are
compatible with and limited to the purpose pursued, namely the communication between parties of the statements
costs in execution of the judgment reached in the Family Court.
 
In her capacity as data controller of her minor daughter in the context of the dispute, the
defendant is bound by the principles of data protection and must be able
to demonstrate that these are respected (principle of responsibility – article 5.2. of the GDPR). She must
also implement all the necessary measures for this purpose (Article 24 of the GDPR),
in particular the appropriate organizational and security measures with regard to the processing
such data via e-mails, in particular to prevent them from being read by third parties who
don't have to know about it.
 
In this case, from the moment when on June 30, 2019, the complainant clearly indicates by e-mail to
the defendant that the personal data sent to the address @V.com are likely to be
read by third parties, it is up to the defendant, as a precaution, to refrain from sending the data
health of her daughter at this address, in addition to the obligation - discussed above - to respect the will of the
complainant regarding the use or not of this communication channel.
 

 Clarification on the legal basis "legitimate interest"

 
The Litigation Chamber wishes to specify that the defendant has, in its opinion, no legitimate interest
on the basis of article 6.1, f of the GDPR to send the personal data including health of his daughter
to the professional e-mail address of the complainant in order to possibly feed his dispute of the
amount of food data collected7.
 
Article 6.1, f of the GDPR, in fact, allows data processing when it is “necessary for the purposes
legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party, unless
The interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require
protection of personal data, in particular when the data subject is a

                                                
7 The Litigation Division refers in this respect to the defendant's last reply and to the questions posed on the subject
of the complainant's professional occupations "Mr. X still does not provide any proof of his work within the
company V. Does this email address really exist? Was it attributed to him or another person with the same name?
We also do not know anything about the use of this email by Mr. X. When did he work and for how long for
company V? In what role? Mr. X deliberately conceals his work as a consultant for third-party companies from the
Family Court” (last response from the defendant, email of November 6, 2019).

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 11/14

child”. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union further requires that the
data controller wishing to invoke Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR8 meets “three conditions
cumulative for the processing of personal data to be lawful, namely,
first, the pursuit of a legitimate interest by the controller or by the third party(ies)
to whom the data is communicated, secondly, the necessity of the processing of the data to
personal character for the achievement of the legitimate interest pursued and, thirdly, the condition
that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person concerned by data protection
do not prevail”.9
 
However, in the present case, the defendant does not claim, and a fortiori does not demonstrate that it could
invoke such legitimate interest. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes that the defendant's interest in building
his defense in family court or on appeal could not justify the transmission to third parties
personal data of his daughter, a fortiori minor at the time of the facts. The Litigation Chamber
considers that the fundamental right of this child to the protection of his personal data - a fortiori
when it comes to health data - prevails over the possible interest of his mother in making the
complainant about the existence or not of independent activities within company V, provided
that such data processing is necessary for the implementation of a legitimate interest, which
is not demonstrated.
 
The same reasoning also applies to the transmission of data relating to the
dispute between the defendant and the plaintiff before the Family Court. To conclude to
absence of legitimate interest, the Litigation Chamber takes into account the plaintiff's freedom to
trade10 with company V as an independent collaborator and the potential damage caused
to his possible future professional relations with this company by the repeated transmission of
personal data relating to a family law dispute. Also on this point of discussion,
the Litigation Chamber considers that the complainant's fundamental right to the protection of his data
personal interests as well as his right to free enterprise prevail over the possible interest of the defendant
to react to the complainant about the existence or not of independent activities within the company
V, insofar as such data processing is necessary for the implementation of an interest
legitimate, which has not been demonstrated.
 
                                                
8 Formerly Article 7(f) of Directive 95/46, cited in the judgment of the Court, with regard to Directive 95/46/EC of
European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing
personal data and on the free movement of such data, OJ L 281 of 23/11/1995, p. 0031, replaced by the
GDPR.
9 CJEU, 4 May 2017, C-13/16, Rīgas, ECLI:EU:C:2017:336, para 28, ECLI:EU:C:2019:1064, and 11 December 2019, C-708/18,
Asociaţia de Proprietari block M5A-ScaraA “M5A-ScaraA”, para 40.
10 Freedom to conduct a business is enshrined in Article 16 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and is one of the
rights and fundamental freedoms with which the interest of the data controller or the third party must be confronted in order to achieve
a decision on whether or not there is a legitimate interest to process personal data in a particular circumstance
(See Group 29, Opinion 06/2014 of April 9, 2014 on the notion of legitimate interest pursued by the data controller
data within the meaning of article 7 of directive 95/46/EC, WP217, p. 38).

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 12/14

Therefore, by sending by e-mail to the address "@V.com" health data of his daughter as well as
data relating to the dispute between the complainant and the complainant after having received information from the latter
clear that this address could be consulted by third parties, the defendant infringed the
articles 5.1, 6.1 (a) and (c), 9.1 (f), 24 and 32 of the GDPR.
 
 
 

VII.

On corrective measures and sanctions

Under the terms of Article 100 LCA, the Litigation Chamber has the power to:
1° dismiss the complaint without follow-up;
2° order the dismissal;
3° order a suspension of the pronouncement;
4° to propose a transaction;
5° issue warnings or reprimands;
6° order to comply with requests from the data subject to exercise these rights;
(7) order that the person concerned be informed of the security problem;
8° order the freezing, limitation or temporary or permanent prohibition of processing;
9° order the processing to be brought into conformity;
10° order the rectification, restriction or erasure of the data and the notification thereof
data recipients;
11° order the withdrawal of accreditation from certification bodies;
12° to issue periodic penalty payments;
13° to impose administrative fines;
14° order the suspension of cross-border data flows to another State or an organization
international;
15° forward the file to the public prosecutor's office in Brussels, who informs it of the follow-up
data on file;
16° decide on a case-by-case basis to publish its decisions on the website of the Authority for the protection of
data.
 
In this regard, when determining its penalty, the Litigation Division takes into account the fact that
the plaintiff also used the business address of the defendant11 to send him his
family court execution responses and grievances. The defendant may therefore have
understand the seriousness of the violation committed when she decided to deliberately ignore
the plaintiff's injunction to no longer use his professional address to transmit the statements of
expense of their daughter.

                                                
11 Complainant's email to Respondent dated April 18, Complainant's Exhibit 1.2.

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 13/14

As indicated above, the Litigation Chamber is however not competent to take
any decision or sanction against the plaintiff concerning the “counterclaim” part
of the plaintiff's grievances, namely, the complainant's use of the professional e-mail address
of the defendant. However, the Chamber considers without prejudice that the Complainant would be well
inspired to refrain from using the plaintiff's business address in the future. The fact that this
professional address corresponds to a company of which the defendant is the managing director
does not prevent the risk of this data being consulted by third parties (e.g. secretary, etc.).
 
The Litigation Chamber therefore intends to issue a warning against the defendant
for the future: any new use of this professional address within the framework of the execution
of this judgment (in particular for the sending of quarterly expense reports) will constitute an infringement of the
aforementioned articles of the GDPR.
 
If informed of new similar facts, the Litigation Chamber could order
prohibition of processing and impose a fine, since each of the parties is now
duly informed of the GDPR rules to be observed in the context of the execution of the decision of the
Family Court which concerns the sending of the statements of expenses of the child of the parties.
 
The Litigation Chamber, however, invites the plaintiff and the defendant to avoid any exacerbation
of this conflict of family origin and favor mediation with regard to the processing of data
relating to the execution of this judgment of the Family Court, in the obvious interest of all
parties to the case, and of their child, whose health data have been processed in ignorance
fundamental principles of the GDPR.
 
Furthermore, given the importance of transparency with regard to the process
decision-making and the decisions of the Litigation Chamber, this decision will be published on the website
of the Data Protection Authority by deleting the direct identification data
of the parties and persons cited, whether natural or legal.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Decision on the merits 29/2020 - 14/14

FOR THESE REASONS,
 
The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation, to:

-

Issue a warning against the defendant on the basis of Article 100 § 1,
5° LCA: any new use by the defendant of the professional address of the
plaintiff in the context of the execution of the judgment of the Family Court between
the parties (in particular for the sending of quarterly expense statements) will constitute an infringement
in Sections 5.1; 6.1, a and c, 9.1, f, 24 and 32 GDPR.
 

Under Article 108, § 1 LCA, this decision may be appealed to the Court of
markets within 30 days of its notification, with the Authority for the protection of
given as a defendant.
 
 
 
 
(seg.) Hielke Hijmans
President of the Litigation Chamber

