THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

July 3, 2020

 

 

 

  Dare more transparency!

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. Stefan

Brink, welcomes the plans of the state parliament and state government, the legislation

to make it more transparent.

 

"The signs of the times point to transparency and openness," says Brink emphatically.

This is also proven by the current debates about the introduction of lobby registers in

federal and state governments and to set up transparency platforms; all these fact-

ren pave the way for the introduction of a transparency law in Baden-

Wuerttemberg.

 

Just last week, the state commissioner in parliament had his 2nd

Activity report on freedom of information in Baden-Württemberg presented. Despite continued

advanced agenda showed the participation of the deputies in the

concluding debate that the issue of freedom of information and transparency does

is no longer a marginal phenomenon, but in the center of political interest

it stands. “Freedom of information is a modern civil right and has long been overshadowed

of the big brother data protection", said Brink in Parliament. The underlying

idea that only an informed citizen is also a responsible citizen

The cornerstone of our democracy in the information society. That's the only way

strengthen trust in the state and politics and follow anti-democratic currents

steadfastly counteract.

 

In the plenary debate on July 25, the state representative for his course in

rich in freedom of information and transparency have been well received. Expressly

The demand for the introduction of a transparency law was taken up

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

for Baden-Württemberg by the parliamentary manager and domestic policy

Spokesman and spokesman for data protection and freedom of information for the Greens

State Parliament Uli Sckerl. Jonas Weber, spokesman for data protection and network policy of the SPD

Parliamentary group signaled its parliamentary group's willingness to engage in dialogue. Interior Minister

Thomas Strobl also emphasized the importance of transparency in government action

for the acceptance of our institutions. Also with the Free Democrats

the topic is currently on the agenda. “I am confident that in the coming

legislative period in the state parliament of Baden-Württemberg, a transparency law

is that of the constitutionally guaranteed

Freedom of Information

in Baden

Württemberg gives new impetus,” says Brink. In this way, the information

Every citizen's right to access information, requests for disclosure of official knowledge

to make it an obligation of public authorities to share their wealth of knowledge

to make it accessible to anyone on the Internet without barriers to access. "From one

The debt of the citizens should be a debt of the administration

– that’s how transparency works!” Brink concluded.

 

His authority has been offering since July 1st with its education and training center

BIDIB also offers further training in the area of freedom of information for

on the one hand and citizens on the other. hoped for

This results in an even broader perception of this "digital fundamental right".

Freedom of information by the population and an increase in understanding and

the necessary tools for the authorities.

 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-23.

Further information on data protection and freedom of information can be found on the Internet

at www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de. the

Press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.

 

 

