 

 

Power Leisure Bookmakers Limited 
Chancellors Road 
London 
W6 9HP 
 
By email only to: Annemarie.Mallia@Flutter.com 
 
6 December 2022 
 
Dear Ms Mallia,  

Case Reference Number INV/0774/2021 
Case Reference Number INV/0184/2022 

We write to inform you that the ICO has now completed its investigation into 
Power Leisure Bookmakers Ltd (PLB). This investigation has considered the 
breaches reported to the ICO on 27 August 2021, 3 September 2021, 9 June 
2022, and 7 July 2022.  
 
In summary, it is my understanding that data subjects have suffered financial 
loss, as a result of their accounts being accessed by fraudsters. Fraudsters have 
contacted PLB and been able to obtain personal data, due to a “flaw” that PLB 
has identified in the security process. This “flaw” allowed agents to provide 
answers to security questions via Livechat.  
 
Furthermore, whilst PLB implemented a new security process in October 2021, 
further breaches have occurred since this date. This is due to agents reverting to 
the original flawed security process.  
 
This case has been considered under the UK General Data Protection Regulation 
(UK GDPR), due to the nature of the processing involved.  
 
Our consideration of this case 
 
We have investigated whether PLB has complied with the requirements of the 
data protection legislation, by implementing appropriate technical and 
organisational measures, to ensure appropriate security of the personal data, 
affected by this breach.  
 
Key Compliance Issues  
 
Details of the particular failings by the PLB, are outlined below as follows:  
 

 

 

 
 

1.  PLB has failed to implement a robust security procedure to protect personal 
data, in direct contravention of Article 5(1)(f), which requires personal data 
to be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the 
personal data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful 
processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures.  
 
At the time that breaches one-five occurred, the process in place enabled 
staff to provide answers to security questions via Livechat – PLB has since 
identified this as a “flaw” in the security process.  
 
As a result, fraudsters were able to access customer accounts and 
withdraw funds.  
 

2.  The “flaw” in the security process also demonstrates a contravention of 

Article 24(1), whereby PLB has failed to implement appropriate technical 
and organisational measures and has failed to review and update measures 
as necessary.  
 

3.  Article 32(1) requires organisations to have a process for regularly testing, 
assessing, and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organisational 
measures for ensuring the security of processing.  
 
If this process had been adequately carried out, the “flaw” should have 
been identified earlier and should have been addressed by PLB.  
 

4.  PLB has failed to assess the appropriate level of security required, taking 

into account the risks from accidental loss or unauthorised disclosure of 
personal data, in direct contravention of Article 32(2).  

Furthermore, the risk of disclosing security question answers was not 
sufficiently considered.  
 

5.  Whilst the “flaw” in the original security process has been identified, many 
of the incidents also occurred as a result of staff not following the account 
security process ie staff members disclosing information to fraudsters, 
before they had answered the correct number of security questions to 
verify identity. This demonstrates that PLB has failed to implement 

 

 

 

 

 
 

appropriate organisational measures, to create a culture of data protection 
awareness.  
 

6.  PLB has confirmed that 95% of staff have completed data protection 

training within the last 12 months, and all agents involved in these 
breaches had completed their training. However, despite this, the agents 
involved in these breaches had had more than one 0% fail – this indicates 
a training/guidance issue within the organisation, whereby staff do not 
understand the implications of not adhering to procedures, or the data 
protection ramifications as a result.  
 
This is further supported by the fact that since the new process was 
introduced, a further two data breach incidents have occurred. This is 
because of staff members reverting to the previous process, and providing 
security question answers to a fraudster.  

Investigation Outcome 
 
After careful consideration and based on the information provided, we have 
decided to issue PLB with a reprimand, in accordance with Article 58 of the UK 
GDPR.  
 
Details of reprimand 
 
The reprimand has been issued in respect of the following processing operations 
that have infringed the UK GDPR: 
 

  Article 5(1)(f) which states that “personal data shall be processed in a 
manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including 
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against 
accidental loss, destruction, or damage, using appropriate technical or 
organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’).”  
 

  Article 24(1) which states that “taking into account the nature, scope, 

context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood 
and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller 
shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in 
accordance with this Regulation. Those measures shall be reviewed and 
updated where necessary.” 

 

 

 
 

 

 

  Article 32(1) which states that “taking into account the state of the art, 
the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes 
of processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the 
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and processor shall 
implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a 
level of security appropriate to the risk, including inter alia as appropriate:  

(a)  The pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data; 
(b)  The ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability 

(c) 

and resilience of processing systems and services; 
The ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a 
timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident; 
(d)  A process for regularly testing, assessing, and evaluating the 

effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring the 
security of the processing.” 
 

  Article 32(2) which states that “in assessing the appropriate level of 

security, account shall be taken in particular of the risks that are presented 
by processing, in particular from accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, 
alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to personal data 
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.” 

Further Action Recommended 
 
Alongside the ICO’s decision to issue PLB with a reprimand in this case, the 
Commissioner also considers that PLB should take certain steps to improve its 
compliance with the UK GDPR. In particular, we recommend that PLB should take 
the following steps:  
 

1.  Decide on a long-term solution, and implement a new security process, 

which you are satisfied ensures appropriate security of the personal data – 
reducing the risk of repeat incidents in future.  

 

 

 

 

2. 

If a similar security question process will be used going forward, you 
should consider tiered style questions ie consider identifying specific, 
obvious questions, which a genuine customer would know, and if these 
questions cannot be answered, calls/livechat should be terminated. 

3.  Take steps to test the integrity of any new processes introduced; 

particularly in those areas where data breaches have occurred. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

4.  Once a new security process is implemented, ensure all relevant staff are 
made aware of any changes to processes, by effectively communicating to 
and providing clear guidance to staff.   

5.  Ensure that the data protection policies/procedures/guidance of the 

organisation are complied with, by regular assurance testing and auditing. 
It is also advisable to test assurance of employee understanding of data 
protection matters from time to time; particularly in areas which are 
identified as high risk, due to the nature of personal data that is processed 
in those areas.  

6.  Review all internal security procedures on a regular basis to identify any 

additional preventative measures that can be implemented.  

7.  Consider including specific PLB breach examples, to training materials. This 
will assist staff in understanding how data protection relates specifically to 
their role.  

8.  Ensure staff are provided with sufficient data protection training for their 
roles and duties in the workplace. This can be achieved by reviewing the 
content and frequency of data protection training, and ensuring that 
sufficient practical guidance is given to staff in how to comply with the 
legislation. This training should also be tailored to specific roles, as levels of 
access to personal data may vary from person to person.  

9.  Consider sending more frequent reminders/conducting sessions more 

frequently with staff members, in relation to the importance of handling 
personal data securely and appropriately; along with the possible adverse 
effects of failing to adhere to established procedures.  
 

10.  Regularly review the guidance that is available on the ICO website.  

 

11.  Ensure that any future incidents reported to senior members of staff and 

the ICO are done so within 72 hours, to comply with the UK GDPR.  

 
For completeness, we ask that PLB provides a progress update to the ICO on the 
above recommendations in six months’ time, or by no later than 6 June 2023. 
Unless otherwise instructed, please provide this update to alice.arnott@ico.org.uk 
 
Whilst the above measures are suggestions, I would like to point out that if 
further information relating to this subject comes to light, or if any further 
incidents or complaints are reported to us, we will revisit this matter and further 
formal regulatory action may be considered as a result. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

Further information about compliance with the data protection legislation which is 
relevant to this case can be found at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/ 
 
We actively publicise our regulatory activity and outcomes, as this helps us to 
achieve our strategic aims in upholding information rights in the public interest. 
We may publish information about cases reported to us, for example where we 
think there is an opportunity for other organisations to learn or where the case 
highlights a risk or novel issue. 
 
Therefore, we may publish the outcome of this investigation to publicise our 
regulatory authority and new powers under the UK GDPR. We will publish 
information in accordance with our Communicating Regulatory and Enforcement 
Activity Policy, which is available online at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico_enforcement_communications_policy.pdf  
 
Please let us know if you have any concerns about this. 
 
Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation.  
 
We now consider the matter closed. 
 
Yours sincerely,  
 
Alice Arnott 
Investigation Officer - Civil Investigations  
Regulatory Supervision Service  
The Information Commissioner’s Office  
0330 414 6387 
 
Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we 
exchange with third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal with, 
including the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, the Data 
Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000. You can read 
about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk).  
 
The ICO publishes basic details about the complaints, investigations and self-
reported data breaches it handles. These details include the name of the 
organisation concerned, the dates that we opened and closed the case, and the 
outcome. Examples of published data sets can be found at this link 

 

 

 

 
 

(https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/our-information/complaints-and-concerns-data-
sets/).  
 
We do not include personal data in the published datasets and will anonymise the 
names of sole traders etc prior to publication. We also do not publish cases 
concerning domestic CCTV complaints and may not publish certain other cases if 
we feel it is not appropriate to do so in the circumstances.  
 
If you wish to raise an objection to us publishing a case in the datasets, whether 
or not we have published it yet, please contact us explaining your reasons for 
this at accessicoinformation@ico.org.uk .  
 
Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is 
confidential. You should also say why so that we can take that into consideration. 
However, please note that we will only withhold information where there is good 
reason to do so. 
 
For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy notice at 
www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice 
 

 

 

