 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
NHS Highland in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK General Data 
Protection Regulation in respect of certain infringements of the UK GDPR.  
 
On 13 June 2019, NHS Highland, on behalf of

 
 sent an email 
to data subjects. The attachment to the email included an invitation to a 
meeting taking place the following week. 
previous group email and copied the recipient list and emailed the 
newsletter to a group of patients, without using the Blind Carbon Copy 
(‘BCC’) option thereby revealing email addresses to all recipients. 
Attempts were made to recall the email, but this was not successful. The 
email was sent to 37 data subjects and most of the email addresses 
included first name and surname or part of the name.  
Later the same day NHS Highland received a number of phone calls from 
recipients and a patient also attended a clinic advising all email addresses 
were visible. 
The incident placed the personal data of 37 individuals at risk. With a 
reasonable degree of certainty, recipients of the email would have been 
able to identify a person on the list as being a person who is a member of 

 opened a 

 and therefore likely to be accessing HIV services.  

Identifying an individual as receiving HIV services could lead to inferences 
being made about them that fall within Article 9 of the GDPR (special 
category data concerning their health). Therefore, the email addresses 
revealed in this incident are, in this context, likely to constitute special 
category data.  
NHS Highland had an email policy that stated, “use the ‘bcc’ field if you 
email many people at once” and this was available to all staff on the      
NHS Highland intranet site. As such, the use of ‘BCC’ was accepted 
practice, despite the risks posed by its use.  
The disclosure of email addresses alone, even within a group of 
individuals who are linked by virtue of their connection to the 
, is 
likely to be distressing and/or damaging to the affected data subjects, 
both in relation to the exposure of their details, and also in relation to 
their confidence in the service provided. There was also the risk that the 
disclosure of the email addresses could have resulted in unsolicited 

 

1 

contact between individuals affected by the incident. One data subject 
stated they were able to identify at least four people, one of whom was a 
previous sexual partner. There was potential for the incident to cause the 
recipients distress if they felt that other people knew about their health 
status (which could potentially include HIV status). The ICO’s 
investigation has determined that the distress and damage that may have 
been caused could be significant. Two patients submitted formal 
complaints to NHS Highland. One of these patients made more than one 
complaint. 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to NHS Highland in 
respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5(1)(f) which states that personal data be “processed in a 

manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
confidentiality’).” 

•  Article 32(1) which states “the controller and the processor shall 

implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk …”  

 

•  Article 25 which states “The controller shall, both at the time of 
the determination of the means for processing and at the time of 
the processing itself, implement appropriate technical and 
organisational measures…” 

 

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
Article 5(1)(f)  
Based on the findings of this investigation, the ICO considers reliance on 
‘BCC’ for communication to this group of individuals was not the most 
secure way to manage communications and other methods could have 
been adopted. For example, sending one email to one person at a time or 
procuring a software package that would facilitate the sending of bulk 
communications by way of individual emails. 
 
Article 32(1) 
The usual way of sending group emails was by ‘BCC’ and this approach 
was detailed in NHS Highland’s induction and induction checklist. Based 

 

2 

 and it did not explicitly mention non-medical related 

on the findings of this investigation, the ICO deems that this is not the 
most appropriate way to manage emails sent to this group. As such, the 
ICO has concluded that there was a lack of technical and organisational 
measures to prevent the disclosure. 
 
Article 25  
The consent was not in place to allow for NHS Highland to send emails on 
behalf of 
information.  
 
NHS Highland’s policies state “BCC” should be used when sending group 
emails.  
 
Both these factors suggest a lack of consideration, in respect of data 
protection, when setting up the arrangement with 
NHS Highland to engage in contacting patients on behalf of any 
community or patient groups, even if clinical data was not involved, 
robust and clear consent should have been in place.  
 
In this incident, the sensitivity of the email addresses should have been 
considered when the arrangement was made to forward emails on behalf 
 due to the inference that could be made regarding access to HIV 
of 
services and HIV status. 
 
Mitigating factors 
In the course of our investigation, we have noted that it was relatively 
unusual for group emails to be sent by this department and the member 
of staff involved was working to a tight timescale in a busy office.  
 
Remedial steps taken by NHS Highland 
The Commissioner has also considered the remedial steps taken by  
NHS Highland in the light of this incident. In particular, escalation 
protocols were followed with the senior manager and Senior Information 
Risk Owner (SIRO) being advised of the incident. Additionally, attempts 
were made to contact the data subjects; this was undertaken by 

. For  

 

. 19 patients were 

successfully contacted by telephone and the remaining 17 who did not 
answer their telephones were contacted by email. All data subjects who 
were contacted by telephone were requested to delete the email and not 
to disseminate the information any further. A Significant Adverse Events 
Report took place and was overseen by a suitably qualified independent 
chair from another health board. Moreover, NHS Highland has ceased 
sending emails on behalf of 

 and the 

 no 

 

3 

longer sends group emails to patients, making a repeat of such an error 
less likely.  
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to NHS Highland in relation to the infringements of 
Article 5(1)(f), Article 32(1) and Article 25 of the UK GDPR set out 
above. 
 
The ICO considered notifying NHS Highland of its intention to impose an 
administrative penalty in the amount of £35,000. However, since June 
2022 the ICO has adopted a revised approach to public sector 
enforcement and, on this occasion, we have decided not to impose an 
administrative penalty.1 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that NHS Highland should take certain 
steps to ensure its compliance with the UK GDPR. With reference to 
Article 5(1)(f), Article 32(1) and Article 25 of the UK GDPR, the following 
steps are recommended: 
1. 

In order to ensure ongoing compliance with Article 5(1)(f) and Article 
32(1), NHS Highland should ensure that relevant policies, such as the 
data protection policy and email policy, are reviewed in relation to 
the use of group emails and updated where necessary.  
 

2.  When sending group emails to patients, particularly when these 

contain special category data, NHS Highland should satisfy itself that 
security is considered, and that appropriate technical and 
organisational measures are utilised. This may involve conducting a 
Data Protection Impact Assessment to identify and address any 
security risks. This would reduce the risk of a recurrence of this type 
of incident and assist compliance with Article 5(1)(f) and Article 
32(1) and Article 25.  
 
If not already in place, NHS Highland should consider conducting an 
internal assessment in relation to UK GDPR training compliance. This 
should include ensuring that any training is regularly reviewed and 
updated as necessary, with refresher training being provided as 
appropriate (the ICO recommends yearly). Ideally training will 

3. 

1 ICO sets out revised approach to public sector enforcement | ICO. 

 

 

4 

include NHS Highland’s expectations of how to send group emails and 
will assist compliance with Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1). 
 

NHS Highland should provide the ICO with a progress update on the 
above recommendations in three months’ time.  
It has been noted that NHS Highland has confirmed that the above 
recommendations have been added to its Information Governance action 
plan. 
 

 

5 

