

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the legal title for the processing of personal data and other obligations according to the general regulation within the framework of customer programs (UOOU-00765/21)
Retailer


The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations set out in the general regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll. in connection with the processing of personal data within the chain's loyalty programs. The performed inspection found that the seller processes an adequate, relevant and necessary range of personal data when using the chain's loyalty programs. Personal data is processed in a correct, legal and transparent manner for a period necessary and corresponding to the purpose of processing. Their processing takes place either on the basis of consent in accordance with Article 6 paragraph 1 letter a) of the general regulation, or on the basis of a legitimate interest in accordance with Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f) of the general regulation. The company provides information on the processing and protection of personal data on its website, through the sent newsletter, through a service message intended for members of its loyalty club, through an SMS message when sending a confirmation code, as well as on the receipt/receipt of a member of the loyalty club . She provided the Office with answers to requests for information on the processing of personal data in accordance with Article 15 of the General Regulation, as well as reports on the deletion of personal data, and also submitted processing contracts concluded in accordance with Article 28 of the General Regulation with all current processors. Profiling and segmentation, occur- if to them, they take place only on the basis of the consent of the data subject. The company has evaluated the severity and probability of the risks associated with the processing of personal data and, following this, has taken technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security corresponding to the given risk. At the same time, it keeps records of processing activities, which contain all the information stipulated in Article 30 of the general regulation. The inspection did not detect a violation of the general regulation.

Links
Anonymized inspection report (UOOU-00765/21) [PDF, 458 KB]


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Sale of goods and services > Inspection of legal title for processing personal data and others obligations according to the general regulation within customer programs (UOOU-00765/21)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



