
State representative sensitizes young people to the conscious handling of their own data
Campaign week for Safer Internet Day





Around the "Safer Internet Day" on February 11th, the State Commissioner for Data Protection (LfD) Lower Saxony again supports the initiative "Data Protection Goes to School". During the week of February 10th to 14th, LfD employees will visit schools in Lower Saxony to sensitize young people to safe and conscious use of the internet and social media. Among other things, they will talk about what makes a secure password, what young people should consider before posting on social media and how to behave as a victim of cyberbullying.

Cooperation with professional association of data protection officers
The campaign is part of a cooperation between several data protection supervisory authorities and the Professional Association of Data Protection Officers in Germany (BvD), which launched the initiative in 2009. The LfD Lower Saxony had already participated in this last year.
"Last year we received very positive feedback on 'Data protection goes to school' from students and teachers. That's why we're happy to be there again this time," says Barbara Thiel, the state representative for data protection in Lower Saxony. "With these topics, we pick up the young people in their immediate reality of life, so the interest is correspondingly high."

Lectures for 1200 young people in 8 schools
Between February 10th and 14th, the employees of the LfD Niedersachsen will visit eight schools in Celle, Göttingen, Hameln, Hanover, Hildesheim, Lüneburg, Osnabrück and Wolfenbüttel. They will reach around 1,200 pupils in the seventh and eighth grades.
In their lectures, they draw on the material of the BvD, the further development of which was supported by the EU initiative klicksafe and the DATEV Foundation Future.

Important contribution to imparting basic knowledge
"Even if it is already provided for in various curricula: the setting of impulses by experts from the supervisory authorities and by those working in data protection is an important building block in conveying basic knowledge," says the spokesman for the BvD initiative, Rudi Kramer.
For teachers who want to deal with the topic themselves in class, the fourth edition of the teacher's handbook "Data protection goes to school" has been available since April 2019. The materials can be downloaded free of charge from http://www.bvdnet.de/datenschutz-geht-zur-schule.
The Safer Internet Day has the motto "Together for a better internet" and this year focuses on the topic "Idols on the Internet. Influencers & Power of Opinion". It has been held annually since 2004 on the initiative of the European Commission.

Further information:
Communication from the BvD: https://www.bvdnet.de/presse/datenschutz-geht-zur-schule-kooperiert-bundesweit-mit-aufsichtsbehoerden/


