RIGHT NOT TO RECEIVE 
UNSOLICITED COMMERCIAL 
CALLS
Law 11/2022 General Telecommunications 
in its article 66.1 reinforces the guarantees of 
users regarding their right not to receive 
unsolicited commercial calls. 
Until the entry into force of these changes, 
you could receive these calls if you had not 
opposed them. As of June 29, 2023, you have 
the guarantees described below.
These changes apply to commercial calls made 
by a person and not to those made with 
automated dialing systems without human 
intervention (for example, with a pre-recorded 
message).
1. 
If you have previously given your consent, 
you may receive commercial calls.
2. 
For the company to justify its legitimate 
interest in making commercial calls to you, 
you must have had a prior relationship with 
it by having purchased its products or 
services, and furthermore, the products or 
services it wishes to offer you must be similar 
to those you have previously contracted. 
3. 
This possibility only refers to calls from the 
company with which you have had that 
relationship and not to other entities, even if 
they belong to the same corporate group.
4. 
If the contractual relationship is no longer 
in force and you have not made any other 
request or interaction with the company in 
the last year, they cannot call you. 
5. 
Commercial calls can only be made to 
randomly generated numbers with the prior 
consent of the user. Calls cannot be made to 
these random numbers based on the legitimate 
interest of the company, as it does not prevail 
over the users' right not to receive commercial 
calls.
6. 
If your phone number appears in a 
subscriber directory, it can only be used for 
commercial calls if you have previously given 
your express consent, which must be generally 
noted in the corresponding directories. 
7. 
If you have previously registered in an 
advertising exclusion system (Robinson List), 
commercial calls can only be made to you if 
you have given specific consent to the company 
that is calling you. If they do not have your 
consent, all companies conducting commercial 
campaigns are required to consult such systems. 
If you gave your consent and do not want to 
receive further calls, you must revoke it.
8. 
If you are a contact person for the entity 
where you work, you may receive commercial 
calls only to relate to the entity and not to you 
as an individual. 
9. 
If you are a businessperson or self-employed 
professional, commercial calls can only be made 
to you regarding products and services related 
to your business or professional activity, and 
not to you as an individual. 
10. 
At the beginning of each call, they must 
inform you of the identity of the company 
or the person on whose behalf they are calling, 
indicate the commercial purpose of the call, and 
the possibility of revoking consent or exercising 
the right to object. Please note that all calls 
must be recorded.
@aepd.es
AEPD
www.aepd.es
AEPD_es
More information: 
 
         Circular Spanish Agency for Data Protection		
	
	
  Legal Report 52/2023