Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 0002/2022  
The inquiry raises whether it is compliant with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (hereinafter GDPR) and with Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD) to publish in a selective process for access to public employment, the list of admitted and excluded candidates indicating the category under which they participate, specifically, the disability category. It is questioned whether such condition - that of disability - should be private and therefore other means of identification such as the ID card or some alphanumeric code should be used.

I  
First, we must analyze the nature of the data regarding disability and the legal regime applicable to it.  
As a starting point, it should be noted what is indicated in Article 22 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted in New York on December 13, 2006, ratified by Spain through the Instrument published in the Official State Gazette (B.O.E) on 21/04/2008, which states the following:  
Article 22. Respect for privacy.  
1. No person with a disability, regardless of their place of residence or living arrangements, shall be subject to arbitrary or unlawful interference with their privacy, family, home, correspondence, or any other type of communication, or to unlawful attacks on their honor and reputation. Persons with disabilities shall have the right to have their privacy protected by law against such interference or attacks.  
2. States Parties shall protect the privacy of personal information and health-related information of persons with disabilities on an equal basis with others.  

This Agency has had the opportunity to state that the data regarding disability is a health data and therefore falls within the special categories of data that require a special protection regime.  
Thus, prior to the entry into force of the GDPR, in Report 178/2014 it was indicated that we are dealing with a specially protected data (those provided for in Article 7 of the LOPD and today provided for in Article 9 of the GDPR), regardless of the type of disability: the character of being specially protected is not attributable to the type of disability, but to the mere existence of it. This thus established an extensive and integrative interpretation of the concept to provide maximum protection to the holders of this type of data.  

In this regard, as an example of the special protection of special categories of data, such as disability, it is necessary to highlight what is indicated in Article 5.3 of Law 19/2013, of December 9, on transparency, access to public information, and good governance, which for its purposes provides that:  
3. The limits to the right of access to public information provided for in Article 14 shall apply, where appropriate, and, in particular, those derived from the protection of personal data, regulated in Article 15. In this regard, when the information contains specially protected data, publicity shall only be carried out after dissociating such data.  

More recently, in Report 117/2019, the following is indicated:  
(...) I  
Article 4.15 of the GDPR defines "health data" as personal data related to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveals information about their health status;  
For its part, Recital (35) states that among the personal data related to health, all data related to the health status of the data subject that provide information about their past, present, or future physical or mental health status must be included. (...) any number, symbol, or data assigned to a natural person that uniquely identifies them for health purposes; information obtained from tests or examinations of a part of the body or a bodily substance, including that derived from genetic data and biological samples, and any information relating, for example, to a disease, a disability, the risk of suffering from diseases, medical history, clinical treatment, or the physiological or biomedical status of the data subject, regardless of its source.
Legal Office
for example, a doctor or another healthcare professional, a hospital, a medical device, or an in vitro diagnostic test.
From the above, it must be concluded that the information related to a worker's disability status is a health data, and therefore must be included within the "special categories of data" according to Article 9 of the GDPR.
II
The processing of special data must find coverage in Article 9.2 of the GDPR, and once the general prohibition is excepted, one must refer to the provisions of Article 6 of the GDPR to legitimize the processing in question. This was indicated by the Article 29 Working Party (whose functions have been assumed by the European Data Protection Board) in its opinion "Guidelines on Automated Individual Decision-Making and Profiling for the Purposes of Regulation 2016/679" by stating that (…) Data controllers may only process special category personal data if one of the conditions laid down in Article 9(2) is met, as well as a condition from Article 6. (…).
Article 9 of the GDPR establishes, in its paragraph 1, the general prohibition on the processing of those data (…) that reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data related to health, or data related to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person (…).
In its paragraph 2, the exceptions that lift the prohibition are collected, indicating that it shall not apply in the following cases:
(…) a) the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of such personal data for one or more specified purposes, except where Union or Member State law provides that the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 may not be lifted by the data subject; 
b) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the data subject in the field of employment law and social security and protection, to the extent that it is authorized by Union law of the Member States or a collective agreement under the law of the Member States that establishes adequate safeguards for the respect of fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject; 
c) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or another natural person, in the event that the data subject is not physically or legally able to give consent; 
d) the processing is carried out, within the scope of its legitimate activities and with appropriate safeguards, by a foundation, an association, or any other non-profit body, whose purpose is political, philosophical, religious, or trade union, provided that the processing relates exclusively to current or former members of such bodies or to persons who have regular contact with them in relation to their purposes and provided that the personal data are not disclosed outside of them without the consent of the data subjects; 
e) the processing relates to personal data which the data subject has made manifestly public; 
f) the processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise, or defense of legal claims or whenever courts are acting in their judicial capacity; 
g) the processing is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest, based on Union or Member State law, which must be proportionate to the aim pursued, respect in essence the right to data protection, and provide for adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject; 
h) the processing is necessary for purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, the assessment of the worker's capacity to work, medical diagnosis, the provision of health or social care, or the management of health and social care systems and services, based on Union or Member State law or under a contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions and safeguards provided for in paragraph 3; 
i) the processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in the area of public health, such as the protection against serious cross-border threats to health, or to ensure high standards of quality and safety of healthcare and of medicinal products or medical devices, based on Union or Member State law that establishes adequate measures and safeguards.
Legal Office
specific to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject, in particular professional secrecy, 
j) the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, based on Union or Member State law, which must be proportional to the objective pursued, essentially respect the right to data protection, and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject. (…)
For its part, Article 6 of the GDPR establishes the circumstances under which data processing may be considered lawful, which states the following:
1. Processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the following conditions is met: 
a) the data subject has given consent to the processing of their personal data for one or more specific purposes; 
b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party or for the implementation at the request of the data subject of pre-contractual measures; 
c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject; 
d) processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person; 
e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller; 
f) processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that such interests are not overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data, in particular when the data subject is a child. 
As has been highlighted, Articles 6 and 9 of the GDPR determine the circumstances that allow for the processing of personal data, in general, and specifically regarding special categories of data, respectively.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5

                                                           Legal Office
For its part, Article 8 of the LOPDGDD under the heading “Processing of data by legal obligation, public interest or exercise of public powers” establishes the following: 
1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on compliance with a legal obligation imposed on the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when such is provided by a rule of European Union law or a rule with the rank of law, which may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it as well as the transfers that may occur as a result of compliance with the legal obligation. Such a rule may also impose special conditions on processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on compliance with a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when it derives from a competence attributed by a rule with the rank of law.
(…)
That is to say, for the processing of disability data, there should be some circumstance that exceptions the general prohibition of processing in paragraph 1 of Article 9 of the GDPR and also meet a legitimizing condition for processing in accordance with Article 6 of the GDPR. 
All this without prejudice to the compliance with the other principles provided in Article 5 of the GDPR, and in particular the principle of minimization, as its application to the specific case will be analyzed during this report.
II
On the legitimacy for the processing of special categories of data in public employment selection processes, in Report 86/2020, the legal regime for access to public employment applicable to the specific case was analyzed, and secondly, the legal nature of the relationship established between the participant and the public administration calling for the selection was highlighted from the perspective of the binding nature of the call's bases, the obligation to comply with them, and their legal nature:
(…) IV
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
6
Legal Office
As previously stated, consent will be inadequate both to lift the prohibition on the processing of specially protected data (Article 9.2 a) GDPR) and to serve as a legal basis legitimizing the processing (Article 6.1 a) GDPR). It should be emphasized that the conduct of the candidate in requesting participation in the selection process inevitably leads to the processing of their data. By submitting the application, the candidate shows adherence to the acts and consequences arising from the execution of the selection process.

Indeed, participation in a selection process is a legal act from which a legal relationship between the candidate and the convening administration obviously arises. As such, in addition to being governed by the applicable rules based on the subject matter and specialty, it must be presided over by the general principles of law provided in the Civil Code and reflected in a very extensive jurisprudence, among which the principle of good faith (Article 7.1 CC) and the doctrine derived from it regarding the prohibition of acting against one's own acts stand out.

When requesting participation in a selection process, the candidate shows acquiescence to submit to its rules, that is, to the bases of the process, which on one hand, are the rules of the game, the law of the contract or the legal relationship that has just been perfected, and on the other hand, if they have not been challenged within the legally established deadlines, they become firm and unassailable, without their content (except in cases of absolute nullity, STS No. 1040/2019 of July 19) being subject to any discussion once the result of the selection process is known.

This is reflected in the jurisprudence (among others, the Judgment of the Supreme Court, Third Chamber, of March 8, 2006, Rec. 6077/2000) "the bases of the call for a competition or selective tests constitute the law to which the procedure and resolution of the same must be subject, in such a way that, once firm and accepted, they equally bind the participants and the Administration, as well as the Courts and Commissions responsible for evaluating the merits, and can only be modified in accordance with the provisions established in Law 30/1992. Such an approach had its normative reflection in Article 3 of Royal Decree 1411/1968, of June 27, which approved the General Regulation for Entry into the Public Administration, and was embodied in Articles 13.4 and 5 of the Regulation approved by Royal Decree 364/1995, of March 10, which implies that the selection procedure must comply with the provisions contained in the bases."

Considering the binding nature that arises from the legal relationship, it is not lawful to prevent the consequences derived from its execution from occurring, either by the candidate or by the convening administration (the parties in this contract). Among these, the processing of health data deserves special mention, as it would contravene the doctrine of the prohibition of acting against one's own acts, which informs any legal relationship, derived from the principle of good faith (Article 7.1 Civil Code).

The Supreme Court, through extensive jurisprudence, establishes the bases, requirements, and content of this rule. Thus, "it is a repeated doctrine of this Chamber that the general principle of law affirming the inadmissibility of acting against one's own acts constitutes a limit to the exercise of a subjective right or a faculty, as a consequence of the principle of good faith and, particularly, of the requirement to observe, within legal transactions, a coherent behavior, provided that the prerequisite requirements that such doctrine demands for its application are met, which are that the own acts are unequivocal, in the sense of creating, defining, fixing, modifying, extinguishing, or clarifying without any doubt a certain legal situation affecting its author, and that there is an incompatibility or contradiction between the previous conduct and the current claim according to the meaning that in good faith should be attributed to the previous conduct."

"This Chamber has been requiring, for the so-called own acts to be binding, that they cause a state, unalterably defining the legal situation of their author, or that they are aimed at creating, modifying, or extinguishing some right opposed to itself (Supreme Court rulings, among many others, of July 27 and November 5, 1987; June 15, 1989; January 18 and July 27, 1990), in addition to the fact that the act must be endowed with a certain solemnity, be express, unambiguous, and perfectly delineated, unequivocally defining the intention and situation of the one performing it (Supreme Court rulings of September 22 and October 10, 1988), which cannot be said of cases where there is error, ignorance, mistaken knowledge, or mere tolerance" (among others, STS 30/10/1995).

Therefore, it must be concluded that the participant in a selection process for public service freely establishes a legal relationship with the administration, and thus, undoubtedly assumes.
Legal Office
the achievement of the acts that derive from such a relationship, among which are submitting to the exercises and tests provided for in the rules that govern the process and that involve the processing of personal data. 
This conclusion can be explained, for mere dialectical purposes and not to lift the prohibition under Article 9.2 of the GDPR, from the perspective of the essential core of the assumption provided in Article 6.1(b) of the GDPR, which legitimizes the processing of data when it is necessary for the execution of a contract, that is, for a legal relationship. In this case, once the legal relationship derived from the signing of the competitive examinations is accepted, the processing of data that derives from it is inherent and necessary to carry out the aforementioned relationship.
To this, concepts such as the foreseeability of the processing and the (subjective and objective) expectation of privacy must be added, which converge in the candidate regarding the processing of their personal information—including health data—derived from their participation in the selection process according to rules that expressly include such types of processing and that have been voluntarily accepted.
V
It is appropriate to address next, and in a joint manner, the assumptions provided in sections (b) and (h) of Article 9.2 of the GDPR, as we are faced with the potential emergence of an employment relationship since, although public service is not governed, in essence, by labor regulations but by the statutory administrative law of public officials, the interpretation derived from it shares, in general terms, the same legal nature.
The psychophysical or medical aptitude test in selection processes serves the purpose of verifying the existence in the candidate of requirements that are necessary according to the job to be performed, that is, they aim to evaluate the worker's labor capacity and, therefore, their suitability for professional practice.
Section (b) requires that this processing be authorized by the Law of the Union of the Member States or a collective agreement in accordance with the Law of the Member States that establishes adequate guarantees for the respect of fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject, and section (h) requires that guarantees be offered when the processing is carried out by a professional subject to the obligation of professional secrecy, or under their responsibility, in accordance with the Law of the Union or the Member States or with the rules established by the competent national authorities, or by any other person also subject to the obligation of secrecy in accordance with the Law of the Union or the Member States or the rules established by the competent national authorities.
Therefore, the processing carried out by the medical services designated for this purpose, and that carried out by the members of the Selection Committee of the selection process must be conducted under certain guarantees established in the Law of the Union or the Member States.
In this regard, it is appropriate to mention that the members of the Selection Committee, as public employees, are subject to the duties of confidentiality or secrecy derived from the provisions of Articles 52 and 53.12 of Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, of October 30, which approves the consolidated text of the Basic Statute of Public Employees. (EBEP hereinafter)
For their part, Law 4/2011, of March 10, on Public Employment of Castilla-La Mancha (which applies to the local corporation of Fuente el Fresno referred to in the inquiry) expressly includes this duty of confidentiality in its Article 37 by identifying as one of the guiding principles "the confidentiality in the actions of the selection bodies."
All this without prejudice to the fact that, in the disciplinary regime of public officials, the publication or improper use of information to which they have access by reason of their function is classified as a very serious offense in Article 95.2 of the EBEP, and in the Penal Code, the revelation of secrets by a public official is considered a crime in Article 198.
As for medical professionals, they are committed to medical confidentiality, the origins of which date back to the Hippocratic oath, and which is reflected in current legislation both in the General Health Law (Article 10) and in Law 41/2002, of November 14, which regulates the autonomy of the patient and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation (Articles 7 and 16), which enshrine the right of patients to the confidentiality of all information related to their health.
To this, it must be added, just as in the case of public officials, that the Penal Code considers the failure to comply with confidentiality obligations a crime.
Legal Office
part of a professional's duty of confidentiality or secrecy, in its article
199.2.
Furthermore, and continuing with the guarantees provided in the
legal framework of the Member States, it must be taken into account
in addition to the principle of confidentiality established in article 5.1 f)
and the security of processing in article 32, both of the GDPR, the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection
and the guarantee of digital rights, establishes in its article
5 under the heading "Duty of Confidentiality" the following:
1. The data controllers and processors, as well as
all persons involved in any phase of this, shall be
subject to the duty of confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. The general obligation indicated in the previous paragraph shall
be complementary to the professional secrecy obligations in accordance
with the applicable regulations.
3. The obligations established in the previous paragraphs shall
remain in effect even after the relationship of the obligated party with
the data controller or processor has ended.
In accordance with the above, the processing of data carried out by
both the personnel conducting medical tests and the members
of the Qualifying Tribunal is subject to specific guarantees of
security, integrity, and confidentiality, as provided in the
indicated provisions.
Therefore, we can find in sections b) and h) of
article 9.2 GDPR the cases that lift the general prohibition
on processing special categories of data.
(…)
The aforementioned report, upon analyzing the concurrence of any legal basis from
article 6 of the GDPR, concluded based on the prior analysis of the public
function regulations that (…) the processing of personal data derived from
the selection process for public function finds its legitimacy in
sections b), c), and e) of article 6 of the GDPR (…).
Well, such considerations are applicable to the present case as
the processing of disability data in selection processes for public
employment is a legal obligation and is also necessary for
the exercise of competencies assigned by law.
c. Jorge Juan 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
11

                                                           Legal Office
Indeed, article 59 of Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, of October 30,
which approves the consolidated text of the Basic Statute of
Public Employees (EBEP), establishes the following:
1. In public employment offers, a quota of no less than
seven percent of the vacancies shall be reserved to be filled by persons with
disabilities, considering as such those defined in section 2 of
article 4 of the consolidated text of the General Law on the rights of
persons with disabilities and their social inclusion, approved by
Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, of November 29, provided that
they pass the selection processes and prove their disability and
compatibility with the performance of the tasks, so that
progressively the two percent of the total workforce in
each Public Administration is reached.
From the aforementioned article, it follows that it is
mandatory in public employment offers to reserve positions for persons with disabilities,
consequently, the processing of data related to the
condition of disability is mandatory.
And regarding the attribution of competencies, in the scope of the General
State Administration, article 3.2 g) assigns to the Government the approval of the
Public Employment Offer, and Royal Decree 364/1995 of March 10,
which approves the General Regulation for the Admission of Personnel to the service of
the General State Administration and the Provision of Jobs and
Professional Promotion of Civil Servants of the General State
Administration, assigns in its article 9 the competence to summon the
Departments to which the corresponding Bodies and Scales of civil servants are assigned to proceed with the call for the selective procedures for access to the
vacancies provided for in those Bodies or Scales,
subject to a favorable report from the General Directorate of Public
Function.
And article 11 of the EBEP does the same for the Autonomous Communities by
indicating that, through a law of their respective legislative assemblies, they will proceed
to organize their own public function. Finally, Law 7/1985, of April 2,
Regulating the Bases of the Local Regime, in its article 4 assigns to local entities the
regulatory power and self-organization.
Furthermore, as indicated in Report 86/2020, and taking into account the
legal nature of the relationship between the participant in the selection process and
the convening public administration, it would be necessary to process the
disability data for the execution of the "contract" that would arise from the
final overcoming of the selection process:
c. Jorge Juan 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
12
Legal Office
On the other hand, as previously indicated, the participant in the selection process is linked to the convening administration by the legal relationship established by participating in the selection process. As indicated by the cited jurisprudence, the general bases are the law of the contract between both parties. 
Therefore, making an extensive interpretation of the concept of legal relationship, in line with the indicated jurisprudential direction, the legitimizing assumption provided for in Article 6.1 b) of the GDPR would be applicable, whereby the processing is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the data subject is a party or for the application at the request of the data subject of pre-contractual measures;
Thus, the processing of data related to the condition of disability that public administrations generally carry out in the provision of public employment is in accordance with the provisions of Article 9.2 b) and Article 6.1 b), c), and e) of the GDPR.
III
Regarding the processing related to the publication of disability data as it appears in the lists of admitted and excluded candidates, it should be noted, first of all, that Article 55 of the EBEP establishes as one of the guiding principles that must inform access to public employment, in addition to the constitutional principles of equality, merit, and capacity, the principle of transparency.
And in the matter of job provision, Article 78 also enshrines the principle of publicity in the following terms: 
“1. The Public Administrations will provide job positions through procedures based on the principles of equality, merit, capacity, and publicity.”
For its part, Royal Decree 364/1995 of March 10, previously cited, establishes in its Article 5 the application of the principle of publicity; and it applies this throughout its articles, for example, in Article 20 under the heading “List of admitted and excluded candidates” the following:
1. Once the deadline for submitting applications has expired, the convening authority will issue a resolution, within a maximum period of one month, declaring the list of admitted and excluded candidates approved. In this resolution, which must be published in the "Official State Gazette," the places where the complete certified lists of admitted and excluded candidates are exposed to the public will be indicated, specifying a period of ten working days for corrections and determining the place and date of commencement of the exercises and, if applicable, the order of action of the candidates. The aforementioned lists must be made available, in any case, at the General Directorate of Public Function, at the Administrative Information Center of the Ministry for Public Administrations, and at the Government Delegations and Civil Governments.
2. When the selection procedure allows it, the public exhibition of the lists of admitted candidates will not be mandatory, and this must be specified in the corresponding call. In these cases, the resolution, which must be published in the "Official State Gazette," must include the place and date of commencement of the exercises, as well as the list of excluded candidates with an indication of the reasons and the deadline for correcting defects.
3. The publication of the Resolution in the "Official State Gazette" will determine the deadlines for possible challenges or appeals.
And in Article 22 under the heading “List of approved candidates” it states that:
1. Once the grading of the candidates has been completed, the Courts or the Permanent Selection Committees will make public the list of approved candidates in order of score at the locations where the last test was held, applying, if applicable, the provisions of Article 14.2 of this Regulation. This list will be submitted to the competent authority, which will publish it in the "Official State Gazette."
Regarding professional promotion procedures, the principle of publicity is also enshrined, both for the call and for the resolution, in Article 38, as well as specified in Articles 42 and 52 of the same Regulation.
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LAPACP) establishes in its Article 45 the following:
1. Administrative acts will be subject to publication when so established by the regulations governing each procedure or when advised by reasons of public interest assessed by the competent body.
In any case, administrative acts will be subject to publication, producing the effects of notification, in the following cases:
(...)
Legal Office
b) When it comes to acts that are part of a selective procedure or competitive bidding of any kind. In this case, the announcement of the procedure must indicate the medium where the successive publications will be made, and those carried out in different places will be invalid.

(…)

3. The publication of the acts will be carried out in the official journal that corresponds, depending on which Administration the act to be notified comes from. In accordance with the transcribed provisions and the principle of transparency, there is an obligation to publish the resolution that declares the list of admitted and excluded candidates and the place where they are displayed; and when the procedure allows, the list of admitted candidates may not be published. The list of approved candidates from the selective process must also be published, generally in the BOE (Official State Gazette) and at the offices of certain agencies related to the selective process or in the corresponding official journal. Furthermore, there is an express obligation to publish when it comes to a competitive bidding procedure. (Article 45.1 b) LPACAP).

That is to say, the legitimization regarding the processing of specific data consisting of the publication of the lists of participants, and if applicable, approved candidates, by the disability quota in a competitive bidding procedure would be found in Article 6.1 c) RGPD.

IV
That said, for the processing of personal data to be compliant with the RGPD, not only must there be a enabling provision, but the remaining principles of data processing must also be fulfilled. The principles of minimization, confidentiality, and ultimately, proactive responsibility are particularly noteworthy. Thus, Article 5.1 of the RGPD states that personal data shall be:
c) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed ("data minimization");
f) processed in such a way as to ensure an adequate level of security for personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or damage, through the application of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

And in paragraph 2 of the aforementioned Article 5 RGPD it is stated that:
2. The data controller shall be responsible for compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1 and shall be able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").

The case presented refers to the publication of lists distinguishing those participants in the selective process who have participated under the general quota and those who have participated under the disability quota, and it proposes regarding the latter, the possibility of identifying them with their ID number or an alphanumeric code. 

Well, first of all, it should be noted that the inquiry does not provide additional information about such publication, that is, whether it is done online, and if so, whether access is free or requires identification, whether it is done on ordinary bulletin boards of certain buildings of the convening public administration and whether these are publicly accessible or restricted, etc., that is, there are elements of great relevance that should be taken into account when applying the aforementioned principles.

Now, regarding how this publication should be carried out, or, in other words, how to reconcile the principle of publicity and transparency of selective processes with the right to data protection, it is advisable first to highlight an example from the doctrine that has been upheld by the courts of justice. 

First, the Supreme Court in Judgment No. 2487/2016 of November 22, starts from the following premise: 
Publicity is a necessary condition to ensure respect for the principles of equality, merit, and capacity; it cannot be asserted that there are phases of selective processes of a private nature, nor that candidates do not have the right to know the exercises of those with whom they compete when they claim their fundamental right to access public employment.

For its part, the Judgment of April 26, 2012, from the First Section of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National Court, which in turn cites the ruling in appeal 215/2010, stated (the underlining is ours): 
"Therefore, one of the exceptions to the requirement of consent for the processing of data is the collision with general interests or with other rights of superior value that diminish the protection of data due to the preference that must be granted to that other interest. In the present case, since it is a competitive bidding procedure, we must pay attention to what is stated in Article 103 of the…
Legal Office
Constitution when it states that the Public Administration serves the general interests objectively and acts in accordance with the principles of efficiency, hierarchy, decentralization, deconcentration, and coordination, with full compliance with the Law and the Right. (paragraph 1) and when it states in paragraph 3 that "The Law will regulate the status of public officials, access to public service in accordance with the principles of merit and capacity..." (all of this in relation to what is provided in article 23 C.E. which we will refer to later.

Obviously, the guarantees required for the processing of personal data cannot serve to overshadow or nullify these general requirements that compel processes to be conducted in compliance with minimum requirements of transparency and publicity. The superiority of these other values advises that in this case it should be understood that the consent of the interested party was not required for the processing of the data of the note consisting of its communication by the union now appealing.

From this point of view, we must conclude that the consent of those individuals participating in a competitive selection process is not required for the processing of the qualifications obtained in that process, as a guarantee and requirement for the other participants to ensure the integrity and impartiality of the procedure in which they compete. (...)

It is true that Organic Law 15/1999 does not expressly provide for exemptions or exceptions to the regime of personal data processing contained therein based on the guarantees of transparency of competitive processes, so it will be necessary to weigh the conflicting interests to determine which of them should prevail. After conducting this weighing, and assessing the circumstances present here, it is clear to this Tribunal that in this case the guarantee of publicity and transparency of the competitive process must prevail over the right to data protection. (It is not uncommon for this Chamber to have to carry out this type of weighing or assessments; it suffices to refer to the judgment of appeal 331/205; DF 2/2010 or 862/2009).

Therefore, it will be appropriate to uphold the appeal and annul the contested resolution based on the prevalence of the general interest, taking into consideration that, as is natural, such use will only be protected within the purposes related to the same competitive selection process in application of the limits set forth in article 4 of the LOPD (...).

That is to say, it is argued that a weighing exercise must be carried out, and that the guarantee of publicity and transparency in a competitive selection process must prevail, taking into account the specific case, over the right to data protection. 

Now, the reference to the limits of article 4 of the LOPD, that is to say, to proportionality, which today must be understood as made to the principle of minimization, is relevant.

V
Taking into account the above, the entry into force of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD implies, among other issues, the application by those responsible and in charge of processing, of the principle of active responsibility and as a result of it, the risk analysis and the application of principles such as data protection by design and by default, as will be analyzed below.

All this on the basis that the publication of the personal data of a participant in a selection process for the disability quota reveals such condition and that, in certain cases, it may provoke situations of discrimination, stigmatization, and ultimately, risk of social exclusion. A circumstance that is what arises from the consultation that is intended to be avoided with another type of identification as proposed.

Indeed, in application of the principle of proactive responsibility of which those responsible for processing are creditors, it must take into account the "data protection by design and by default" established by article 25 of the GDPR.

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of application, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity that the processing entails for the rights and freedoms of individuals, the data controller shall apply, both at the time of determining the means of processing and at the time of the processing itself, appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymization, designed to effectively apply the principles of data protection, such as data minimization, and integrate the necessary guarantees into the processing, in order to comply with the requirements of this Regulation and protect the rights of the data subjects.
Legal Office
2. The data controller shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that, by default, only personal data that is necessary for each specific purpose of processing is processed. This obligation shall apply to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of its processing, its retention period, and its accessibility. Such measures shall ensure in particular that, by default, personal data is not accessible, without the intervention of the individual, to an indeterminate number of natural persons.
(…)
In the same vein, Recital 78 of the GDPR states that:
(78) (…) In order to demonstrate compliance with this Regulation, the data controller must adopt internal policies and implement measures that comply in particular with the principles of data protection by design and by default. Such measures may consist, among others, of minimizing the processing of personal data, pseudonymizing personal data as soon as possible, providing transparency regarding the functions and processing of personal data, allowing data subjects to monitor the processing of data, and enabling the data controller to create and improve security elements.
(…)
As can be observed, data protection by design and by default is closely linked to the principle of minimization and measures such as pseudonymization.
For its part, the LOPDGDD in CHAPTER I General Provisions. Active Responsibility Measures establishes in Article 28 under the heading “General Obligations of the Data Controller and Processor” the following:
1. Data controllers and processors, taking into account the elements listed in Articles 24 and 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, shall determine the appropriate technical and organizational measures that must be applied in order to ensure and demonstrate that the processing is in accordance with the aforementioned regulation, with this organic law, its implementing regulations, and the applicable sectoral legislation. In particular, they shall assess whether it is necessary to carry out a data protection impact assessment and the prior consultation referred to in Section 3 of Chapter IV of the aforementioned regulation.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
19

                                                           Legal Office
2. For the adoption of the measures referred to in the previous paragraph, data controllers and processors shall take into account, in particular, the greater risks that could arise in the following cases:
a) When the processing could generate situations of discrimination, identity theft or fraud, financial losses, damage to reputation, loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization, or any other significant economic, moral, or social harm to the affected individuals.
(…)
c) When the processing of special categories of data referred to in Articles 9 and 10 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Articles 9 and 10 of this organic law, or data related to the commission of administrative offenses, is not merely incidental or accessory. (…)
e) When the processing of data of groups of affected individuals in a situation of special vulnerability is carried out, particularly minors and persons with disabilities.
f) When mass processing occurs that involves a large number of affected individuals or entails the collection of a large amount of personal data. (…)
Furthermore, it should be noted that the LPACAP recognizes in its Article 13 as Rights of individuals in their relations with Public Administrations, in its subsection h) the right to the protection of personal data, and in particular to the security and confidentiality of the data contained in the files, systems, and applications of the Public Administrations.”
And in its Article 40.5, it provides that:
“Public Administrations may adopt the measures they consider necessary for the protection of personal data contained in administrative resolutions and acts, when these are addressed to more than one interested party.”
Taking the above into account, the data controller of the participants' data in the selective process in question, after analyzing the possible risks to the rights and freedoms of the participants, must apply measures from the perspective of minimization and data protection by
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
20
Legal Office
defects that allow for their coexistence with the principle of publicity and transparency that inform competitive selection processes. The measures that are analyzed and proposed in the conclusions of this report could prove adequate and advisable, even for the publication of the list of the open access turn, taking into account the risks derived from the current state of technology and the exponential transmission and publication of any information produced through the internet. Consequently, general measures applicable to the publication of personal data in selection processes are proposed, applicable to both participation turns, the specification and implementation of which correspond in any case to the data controller in compliance with the principle of active responsibility, and which, regardless of those deemed appropriate, must take into account the special protection required for disability data.

VI
Regarding what specific measures can be implemented, it is advisable to start from the principle of proportionality when jointly applying the fundamental right to access public service under equal conditions (art. 23.3 CE) and the right to the protection of personal data (art. 18.4 CE) as recalled by the Constitutional Court Judgment 14/2003, of January 28: “In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure of fundamental rights is determined by the strict observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that matter here, it is sufficient to recall that, to verify whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether the measure is capable of achieving the proposed objective (suitability test); whether, in addition, it is necessary, in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with equal effectiveness (necessity test); and, finally, whether it is balanced or proportionate, as it derives more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms to other conflicting goods or values (strict proportionality test; SSTC 66/1995, of May 8 [RTC 1995, 66], F. 5; 55/1996, of March 28 [RTC 1996, 55], FF. 7, 8, and 9; 270/1996, of December 16 [RTC 1996, 270], F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17 [RTC 1998, 37], F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10 [RTC 2000, 186], F. 6). (…)”

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
21

                                                           Legal Office
That said, the GDPR in its article 4.5 defines "pseudonymization" as the processing of personal data in such a way that they can no longer be attributed to a data subject without the use of additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organizational measures intended to ensure that personal data is not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person; For its part, dissociation is a technique that prevents the identification of the data subject, meaning that a dissociated data cannot identify the subject, thus we would not be facing a case of application of the GDPR as it can be considered anonymous information. The Royal Decree 1720/2007, of December 21, which approves the Regulation for the development of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the protection of personal data, defined in its article 5.1 e) dissociated data as that which does not allow the identification of an affected or interested party. In this sense, Recital 26 of the GDPR indicates to us: Therefore, the principles of data protection should not apply to anonymous information, that is, information that does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person, nor to data converted into anonymous form in such a way that the data subject cannot be identified, or ceases to be identifiable. That is to say, the use of anonymization techniques would prevent the application of the GDPR, but, on the contrary, would be an obstacle to fulfilling the principles of publicity and transparency and materializing the principle of equality that must preside over access processes to public service. In other words, dissociation or anonymization does not pass the aforementioned suitability test. 

That said, it is appropriate to analyze what has been the criterion of this Agency when it comes to reconciling the principles of publicity and transparency in access to public service and the right to the protection of data. Resolution R/2593/2017 dated 29/09/2017 arising from the procedure for declaring Infraction AP 2_2017 in which the publication openly through the internet, in a selection process, of the lists of admitted and excluded and of the lists with the provisional qualifications, and the possibility of downloading the corresponding pdf document, where the following is indicated: Regarding the object of the matter properly denounced, once the call has been published and the applications for participation in it have been received, the competitive selection process would begin, which as the word says, must be predicated of and for all members of the 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
22
Legal Office
group that aspires to pass the announced tests, competing in merits and capacity against each other. Once the announcement and the bases are published, the subsequent procedures will affect a specific and qualified circle. The exposure of data within this circle is appropriate, proportionate, and serves its purposes. These purposes are for those affected by the procedure, for example, to challenge acts they consider arbitrary or that harm their interests, as well as to compute deadlines for corrections and/or claims. To assert that transparency and publicity should prevail simply because access to the data of the admitted/excluded provisional candidates or those provisionally qualified is generally available, and specifically in this case, lacks justification and greatly exceeds the purpose of processing data of the affected individuals. Consequently, the rest of the public, those who do not participate in such tests, lack a legitimate basis to access the data of surnames and names along with the NIF of each candidate or their qualifications. This is not proportionate to the purpose of the process and does not affect transparency, as third parties who are not going to be examined do not compete. Such access by any person to the data is invasive and contrary to the principle of data minimization and quality in their processing (Article 4.1 of the LOPD). Thus, third parties unrelated to the procedure should not have access from the outset to documents or data of the processing in which they hold no defined legal position. The provisional list of admitted and excluded candidates is an act related to the internal processing of the selection process. The right of a non-participant in the procedure may, if applicable, be promoted on a case-by-case basis, as a right of access with specific access rules related to the Transparency Law.
(…)
It would be less intrusive and more in line with the provisions of data protection regulations if its publication affected and could be viewed only by those who compete, not by the general public.
Resolution R/3081/2017 of 24/11/2017 issued in the procedure for declaring Infraction AP 12_2017, in which the publication on the website of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla-La Mancha of the data of two minors is reported, including the scoring for the granting of school places, which included disability data.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
23

                                                           Legal Office
The manner of proceeding of the accused has not been proportionate to the purpose of the process, as access by any person to the data of the applicants is invasive, given that they do not participate in it, and the content of the scoring is also invasive. LOPD. It is therefore advised that access to the provisional and definitive lists be provided only to the applicants, either with keys and passwords assigned during the telematic submission or in another similar manner.
Resolution R/2726/2017 dated 17/10/2017 issued in the procedure for declaring Infraction AP 17_2017, in which the open publication via the internet of the lists of admitted and excluded candidates for the Teaching Body of Secondary Education, expressing the cause of exclusion, is reported, where in Proven Fact 2, it is indicated that:
By resolution of 16/05/2016, the Director General of Teaching Staff and Academic Organization indicated that the provisional list of admitted and excluded candidates to be part of the lists of candidates for interim appointments in the Body of specialties called would be published on the notice board of the Ministry and on the educational portal of the Ministry of Education. For such access and viewing, neither a key nor a password is required, allowing any person, whether or not they participated in the process, to access and view the content.
And the Resolution continues in terms similar to those indicated above:
Consequently, the rest of the public, those who do not participate in such tests, lack a legitimate basis for access to the data of surnames and names along with the NIF of each candidate or the causes of exclusion. Furthermore, in this case, there is a disproportion in explicitly stating the reason for exclusion. The reason, in this case, does not relate to the lack of accreditation of disability but to the degree of incapacity recognized by the competent authority. To avoid having to explicitly state this reason, the accused should foresee in the announcement some keys related to generic causes for exclusion and subsequently provide the affected individual with specific information so that they can challenge it if deemed appropriate. The manner of proceeding of the accused is not proportionate to the purpose of the process, as access by any person to the data of the applicants is invasive, given that they do not participate in it, and the content of the scoring is also invasive.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
24
Legal Office
the content of the exclusion reason, infringing Article 4.1 of the
LOPD.
And finally, the Resolution R/1600/2018 issued in the Procedure for
Declaration of Infringement AP_45/2018, which will be referenced later, in which it is deemed appropriate to access said lists through prior identification limited to the participants.
In conclusion, as can be observed, the criterion of this Agency has been that
in accordance with the principle of proportionality provided for in Article 4 of the now repealed LOPD, measures should be established to prevent third parties not involved in the procedures in question from accessing the personal information of the participants.
Currently, under the application of the GDPR, Resolution E/03464/2020 of this Agency was issued, dated 9/06/2020, which analyzes a complaint regarding the publication by the University of Zaragoza of the list of admitted students through the disability quota and its “open” access via the electronic headquarters:
In any case, the principle of data minimization, as set out in Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, must be taken into account, so that personal data is “adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed,” so that publicity should be limited to the data necessary to ensure the transparency of the corresponding competitive bidding process, without incorporating data that may be excessive for achieving such purpose, which again requires consideration of the specific case.
We refer here to publication in official journals or electronic notification boards, not to the transparency of Law 19/2013. This concerns access by any person, not just the participants who are the directly affected parties, and during the admission process.
In principle, it would be logical for access to that data to be granted only among the participants who are the only interested parties in the process, whether it is a job call or an application for admission to the university, as in this case. Publicity and transparency pertain to the participants in the same. The fact of exposing all identifying data in official journals accessible to third parties does not imply more transparency for those affected and none for those not affected.
On the other hand, it can be published openly for any person, safeguarding the privacy and data protection rights of the interested parties. (…)
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
25

                                                           Legal Office
The issue is not whether the data of disabled persons provided for in the Law can and should be processed, but rather the intensity or extent of the use of such data, and the scope within which the processing can be extended. In this case, mediated by the transparency for the interested parties, regarding the score obtained according to the two quotas. Quotas that can also communicate with each other on some occasions, which influence a competitive bidding process in which applicants must be ranked by score to fit the offer. The fact that the treatment of such data is provided for in legal norms or that it is supported by constitutional principles does not imply that the rights of their holders must yield so that any person, whether or not an applicant for places, can access and know such data, including the special data of disabled persons.
For this, the purpose of the processing, the subjects affected, and the regulatory framework in which it unfolds must be observed.
It is based on the premise that the full identification of name and surname with the disability data open to any person goes beyond transparency since it can be viewed by third parties not participating in the process and communicates personal health data of its holders. There should be a balance in the processing of adequate and relevant data within the circle of affected parties without undermining the fundamental right of Article 18.4 of the Spanish Constitution. Codes of applications could be assigned that only the applicants would know to enter the lists; access to a platform with the data could be realized, tending towards the ideal, which would be that publicity affected exclusively the applicants for places. (…)
The respondent stated that from the receipt of the complaint and for future calls for places, in any administrative act they publish, they will generally expose names and surnames, and for the disability quota, they will not publish names and surnames but only the application number, and this provision will have to be published for general knowledge.
Regarding this, it should be noted that it would be in accordance with the principle of transparency and data minimization, achieving its objective, as long as the interested parties, ensuring transparency, have the possibility to know the person who holds that application number.
In this case, when the complaint is transferred to the respondent, they become aware of the possible partial inadequacy to the regulations,
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
26
Legal Office
correcting and withdrawing the list. Furthermore, it is certified that a protocol has been added for the disclosure of the data "disability quota" that would not violate the regulations.
The cited resolution archives the procedure because the measures adopted by the data controller, consisting of publishing only a code regarding the students participating in the disability quota, are considered adequate with the principle of minimization (and data protection by design and by default).
VII
Therefore, as a conclusion, the following measures are proposed as adequate to the principle of confidentiality and data protection by design and by default in relation to the principle of publicity and transparency that must inform the selective processes for access to public service, differentiating access to publications via the internet from access to publications on physical notice boards at the corresponding locations:  
Regarding access via the internet.
In terms of access, establish restricted access with a username and password for participants in the selective process, understood as those who have formalized the corresponding application, or through the use of an electronic ID or digital certificate.
It should be noted that Article 25.2 of the GDPR states that such measures will ensure in particular that, by default, personal data is not accessible, without the intervention of the individual, to an indeterminate number of natural persons.
This solution was already highlighted in Resolution R/1600/2018 issued in the Procedure for Declaration of Infringement by the AEPD due to a complaint to the General Subdirectorate of Professional Regulation of the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs, in which access to information about participants in the selective processes was allowed for any internet user. In the statement of proven facts, it was indicated, among other issues, the following:
THREE. - It is verified, therefore, that it is possible to access the email address of a participant with the identification (DNI or NIE) of the holder of such data, without requiring a password or authentication, allowing any third party unrelated to that identity to access that information.
FOUR. - On the aforementioned website, it is verified that to download the document Final Results Relationships, identification through Electronic Certificate or electronic DNI is required, allowing access to that list regardless of whether or not one is a participant in that selective process.
During the course of the procedure, it was demonstrated that measures were adopted that prevented any third party from accessing the personal data of the participants, through access with the electronic DNI or equivalent certificate restricted solely to the participants in the same.
In the same vein, the recent Report 2/2020, dated June 15, from the Transparency Council of Aragon, indicates that:
many administrations are making progress to establish a balance between the principle of transparency and the protection of personal data. For example, the City Council of Zaragoza with its "Regulatory Instruction for the publication of personal data in selective processes for permanent and non-permanent staff of the City Council of Zaragoza" dated November 10, 2017. Thus, access to the information published on the website is restricted to candidates/participants in each selective process through a password. This system allows avoiding the indexing of personal data (so that a simple search for the data through a search engine may not be sufficient to access the content of that personal data) and informs individuals applying for admission to selective processes that if they find themselves in a situation of special accredited protection (for example, victims of gender violence), their identifying data will be coded.
In relation to the case at hand, it should be added that interested parties will be able to access the lists of admitted and excluded candidates, those who passed the exercises in which the tests of the selective process are constituted, and final passers with the corresponding qualification. Access may be made indiscriminately, meaning that those from the open turn may access the lists of the disability turn and vice versa. 
The rationale for this possibility is that on numerous occasions the bases of the selective processes provide that (…) In the event that some of the candidates who have applied under the reserved quota for persons with disabilities pass the corresponding exercises, but do not obtain a position and their score is higher than that obtained by other candidates from the general access system, they will be included by their order of score in the general access system. (…) and also that
Legal Office
those positions of the latter that are not filled are incorporated or accumulated
to the general turn.
It is therefore obvious that there is a legitimate interest in having
participants from both turns be able to know the lists of admitted and
excluded candidates indiscriminately.
In this regard, it is appropriate to cite Opinion CN12-039 from the Basque
Data Protection Agency dated 30/01/2013, which states:
Taking into account the guiding principles of access, the cited regulations,
and that we are dealing with a single selection process, although some
positions have been reserved for the turn of persons with disabilities, the
rest of the participants would have the right to know who accesses the
turn for persons with disabilities and how the selection process unfolds
within it, in order to assert their rights if necessary, since those positions
will accumulate to those offered in the free turn if they remain vacant. Thus,
for example, they would have standing to challenge the resolution that
approves the provisional or definitive list of admitted and excluded personnel
if they believe that any of the candidates from the "persons with disabilities"
turn did not meet that condition by the end of the application submission
period (general base 2.1), since, in addition to being an admission contrary
to the participation requirements set forth in the call for all candidates, it
would imply a difference in treatment among candidates regarding the
timing of when the same must be fulfilled and, consequently, it would
violate the right to access public functions "on equal terms" guaranteed in
art. 23.2 CE.
Furthermore, the improper admission of a person could harm the rest of
the candidates by preventing a position that could remain vacant as a
result of the exclusion from increasing the number of positions in the free
turn.
Regarding the information accessed, in the corresponding lists referenced
in the previous paragraph, each participant will be identified with the
assignment of a code -which could be the same as that granted with the
participation application and which also constitutes the username for
accessing information about the selection process-, and the initials of the
first names and surnames of each participant and the ID number in the
terms of the Seventh Additional Provision of the LOPDGDD. This complies
with the principle of minimization by not publishing more data than is
necessary to fulfill the purpose for which the processing serves.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
29

                                                           Legal Office
Regarding the period during which these lists must be accessible,
according to article 5.1 e) of the GDPR on the limitation of the retention
period, they must be accessible as long as they serve the purpose for which
they are intended; thus, for example, the list of admitted and excluded
candidates must be removed from the website once the deadlines for
challenging them expire, or the lists regarding the grading of a specific
exercise, as long as the procedure for challenging them has not been
closed.
In this regard, it is appropriate to cite the Resolution of the Catalan
Data Protection Authority issued in the Sanctioning Procedure PS 18/2020,
which states:
Considering the purpose of publishing the detailed lists of proven facts,
linked to personnel selection processes -provisional and definitive list of
admitted persons, grades of the different tests, etc.-, these should have
been maintained for the time necessary for the formulation of the
corresponding allegations or appeals, so that once this period has ended,
they should no longer have been accessible. This is the criterion of this
Authority as reflected in the report of "Audit 1/2018, on transparency
portals," where it is stated, regarding the publication time of the different
minutes issued within a selection process, that: “In accordance with the
principle of limitation of the retention period of data, the exposure of the
lists of admitted candidates and the results of the successive tests must be
limited to the period in which allegations or appeals can be made; therefore,
they must be removed once this period has elapsed.”
But in addition to what has been said so far rebutting the argumentation
of the City Council defending the need to maintain the publication of the
lists to protect certain rights of the persons interested in the procedure,
it should be emphasized that the controversial documents are published
openly, without any restrictions, so that any person, whether interested or
not in the procedure, can access the personal data that these documents
include. And at this point, it is necessary to reiterate what the instructor
evidenced in the proposal, namely, that this publication, maintained over
time without any legitimacy, is particularly harmful when, as in this case,
the lists are publicly accessible and contain data of special protection
(health data) related to individuals who have
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
30
Legal Office
participated in the aforementioned selective process through the reserve turn, which are identified by name and surname.
The resolution concludes by ordering the following measures:
To remove from its institutional website the lists referred to in the section of proven facts. Once the corrective measure described has been adopted, within the specified timeframe, the City Council of Barcelona must inform the Authority within 10 days, without prejudice to the inspection authority of this Authority to carry out the corresponding verifications. Likewise, as indicated by the instructor in the proposal, it is recommended that the City Council, in future selective processes in which individuals participate in the reserve turn, adopt certain measures that could prevent the dissemination of data related to disability, without neglecting the principle of publicity that, as previously mentioned, must govern access processes to public service. Thus, for example, the lists could be published containing the names and surnames of all individuals participating in the selective process (those participating in the open turn and the reserve turn) in an environment with restricted access for these individuals; and publish the same lists openly, but identifying the individuals participating in the reserve turn in a pseudo-anonymized manner. This form of identification through a code - which could be, for example, a registration number - could also be used for the purpose of notifying administrative acts within the selective process concerning individuals participating in this reserve turn (instead of the ID number), thus avoiding potential identification in case the lists of the results of the selective process were made using the name and surname and four digits of the ID number, as provided by the 17th Additional Provision of the LOPDGDD. (...)
Finally, regarding the appointments as public employees of those participants who have passed the selective process, Article 62 of the EBEP requires the publication of the appointments of career civil servants in the corresponding official gazette. However, it does not mention publication by the turn in which they participated.
Considering the measures just indicated, nothing prevents those participants who wish to know the full identity of other participants, in order to exercise the rights granted to them by the legal system, such as those derived from the LPACAP, the EBEP, or the relevant calls, from accessing such information. In this regard, the Judgment of the Supreme Court number 400/2020 of May 13 indicates that:
Therefore, it is only necessary to recall that the jurisprudence of the Chamber has maintained that participants in selective processes or job provision have the right to access the documentation gathered in the file, including that related to the evaluations of the candidates with whom they compete. The position of these participants is not that of the interested parties referred to in Law 19/2013 (RCL 2013, 1772), but the qualified position of a candidate who, within the framework of Article 23.2 of the Constitution, aspires to progress in public employment for reasons of merit and capacity with the requirements established by law. For this reason, they cannot, in principle, oppose their request for access based on reasons related to the privacy or personal data of other participants in the process, to the extent that the file must only reflect the aspects related to the assessment of such merits and capacity, and what relates to them is relevant for the resolution of the call and, therefore, for the defense of their right by candidates who consider the decision to be contrary to legality [judgments of June 6, 2005 (RJ 2005, 6711) (appeal no. 68/2002), October 3, 2013 (RJ 2013, 7761) (appeal no. 644/2012), December 2, 2013 (RJ 2014, 271) (appeal no. 752/2011), and November 22, 2016 (RJ 2016, 6088) (appeal no. 4453/2015)].
For the rest of the individuals, non-participants in the selective process, the publication on the internet related to the selective process will contain those acts or phases of it without any indication of personal data, including pseudonymized data.
All of this is without prejudice to the powers granted to citizens by transparency laws, highlighting what is provided in Article 14 regarding general access limitations, and in Article 15 related to the right to data protection, both of Law 19/2013, of December 9, on transparency, access to public information, and good governance.
Considering the measures just indicated, any citizen can know the steps or phases through which the process passes and ultimately the compliance with the regulations governing access processes to public service, which is a key element of the principle of publicity and transparency that these procedures are entitled to according to Articles 55 and 78 of the Law.
Legal Office
EBEP, and ultimately in accordance with the provisions of Article 23.2 of the
Spanish Constitution.
Regarding access to the listings in the physical spaces where the Announcement Boards of the corresponding offices are located, the content and publication period indicated so far would apply, and regarding accessibility to the location where they are found, measures should be adopted so that they are not freely accessible, but rather that the condition of participant in the selection process is justified.
The proposed measures indicated are carried out without prejudice to the possibility that, in order to provide greater legal certainty, the corresponding legislative modification may be proposed, taking into account the absence of specific regulations on the concrete manner of proceeding, the lack of uniformity in practice, and the numerous administrations and public bodies that have competencies over the execution of selection processes for public employment.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
33