International Working Group 
on Data Protection 
in Telecommunications 

711.398.1 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 May 2019 

P R E S S  R E L E A S E 

 
 

Working Paper on Privacy and Artificial Intelligence released   

 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin 
Group), chaired by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja 
Smoltczyk, has passed a Working Paper on Privacy and Artificial Intelligence at its 64th meeting 
in Queenstown (New Zealand) on 29 and 30 November 2018. After a written procedure the Working 
Paper has been finally adopted.  
 
Artificial intelligence (AI) is high on the agenda of many business sectors due to its perceived poten-
tial for radically improving services, commercial break throughs and financial gains. It is expected 
that the next five years will see the pervasive implementation of AI technologies. AI systems general-
ly require the processing of huge volumes of data for their development. In a number of cases, these 
data are personal data, potentially impacting on individuals’ rights to data protection and to privacy.  
 
The Working Paper on Privacy and Artificial Intelligence highlights the privacy challenges associated 
with the development and use of AI. It provides a set of technical recommendations to help develop-
ers of AI systems, system providers, organisations purchasing and using AI systems, and Data Pro-
tection Authorities to mitigate privacy risks.  
 
The Working Paper is available for download at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org   
 
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”) 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin 
Group”) includes representatives from Data Protection Authorities and international organisations dealing with 
privacy matters from all over the world. It was founded in 1983 at the initiative of the Berlin Commissioner for 
Data Protection, who has since then been chairing the Group. The Group has adopted numerous recommen-
dations (“Common Positions” and “Working Papers”) aimed at improving the protection of privacy in telecom-
munications. Since the beginning of the 90s the Group has focused particularly on the protection of privacy on 
the Internet. 
 
More information about the Work of the Group and the documents adopted by the Group are available for 
download on the website of the Group at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Secretariat 
Berliner Beauftragte für 
Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit 
Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 
Phone   +49 / 30 / 13889 0 
Fax:      +49 / 30 / 215 5050 
 

E-Mail: 
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
Internet: 
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org 

 

The Working Group has been initiated 
by Data Protection Commissioners 
from different countries in order 
to improve privacy and data protection 
in telecommunications and media 

         