International Working Group
on Data Protection
in Telecommunications
711.398.1
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

               May 9, 2019
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

Berlin Group publishes working paper on data protection and artificial intelligence

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (so-called Berlin Group),
headed by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk
at its 64th meeting on November 29th and 30th, 2018 in Queenstown (New Zealand).
Working paper on data protection and artificial intelligence adopted.
 
Artificial intelligence (AI) has made enormous leaps in development in recent years
and increasingly permeates our everyday world. The economic potential is great
Using artificial intelligence, products and services can be improved, processes
be tomatized and optimized. But for their development, AI systems require large amounts of data.
gen. In the process, personal data is often also processed, which means that the right of
is individually concerned with data protection and privacy.
 
The working paper on data protection and artificial intelligence shows the challenges
associated with the development and use of AI systems. There are technical
missing, the developers of AI systems, system providers and organizations that use AI systems
use, help to minimize the risks for data protection.
 
The working paper is available in English at http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org. One
German translation will shortly be available on the website of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Released Freedom of Information.
 
 
 
About the International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications (“Berlin Group”)
The International Working Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications
Group on Data Protection in Telecommunications – IWGDPT, also known as “Berlin Group”) consists of
Representatives of data protection authorities and organizations from around the world dealing with the
deal with privacy protection. The working group was founded in 1983 on the initiative of the Berlin data protection
authority was founded, which has chaired it ever since. Since its inception, the working group has a variety of
Recommendations (“Common Positions” and “Working Papers”) to improve the protection of privacy
vatsphere in telecommunications. Since the early 1990s, the
Group in particular with the protection of privacy on the Internet.
 
After the adoption of working papers at the meetings of the working group, a written
proceed to correction and final editing. The final working paper is published
after completion of the written procedure.
 
More information about the working group and the documents adopted by the group are available at
available on the website of the working group: http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org.
 
 
 

secretariat
Berlin representative for
Privacy and Freedom of Information
Friedrichstr. 219
D-10969 Berlin
Telephone +49 / 30 / 13889 0
Fax: +49 / 30 / 215 5050
 

E-mail:
IWGDPT@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
Internet:
http://www.berlin-privacy-group.org

 

The Working Group has been initiated
by Data Protection Commissioners
from different countries in order
to improve privacy and data protection
in telecommunications and media

