Trends and Highlights from Stream 1 of the DPC’s Public Consultation on Children’s Data Protection Rights
From December 2018 to May 2019, the Data Protection Commission (‘DPC’) ran a public consultation on the processing of children’s personal data and the rights of children as data subjects under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This consultation was launched in an effort to address a number of questions arising in the context of new child-related provisions under the GDPR, which is the first EU data protection law to highlight the importance of the protection of children’s personal data and the position of children as data subjects. This consultation was organised into two streams: one aimed at engaging adult stakeholders and industry, and the other aimed at children and young people.
Stream I sought to involve adult stakeholders in the debate. The DPC invited all interested parties – including, parents, educators, children’s rights organisations, child protection organisations, representative bodies for parents and educators, as well as organisations that collect and process children’s data – to submit their responses to any or all of the 16 questions set out in the dedicated consultation document.
The DPC has created a preliminary report on Stream I of the consultation in order to give an insight into the level of engagement we experienced and to provide an overview of the headline trends and themes emerging from the feedback we received stakeholders in their submissions.
Click here to read about what adult stakeholders had to say about children’s data protection rights.
In total, 30 submissions were received in response to this stream of the consultation. Participating stakeholders came from a wide range of sectors, including technology and social media companies, children’s rights charities, public sector bodies, academia and trade associations. The full list of submissions is available below: 

The Teaching Council
AllOne Corporate Solutions
Scouting Ireland
Barnardos
Minister for Justice and Equality
SuperAwesome
Church of Ireland
Irish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
The Pokémon Company International
The Irish Play Therapy Association
A group of academics
The Ombudsman for Children's Office
ProPrivacy Ltd.
The Irish Wheelchair Association
The Irish Heart Foundation
National Council for Curriculum and Assessment (NCCA)
Joint Managerial Body
Department of Education and Skills
Google
Department of Public Expenditure and Reform
TUSLA Child & Family Agency
Three Ireland
Early Childhood Ireland
Technology Ireland
CyberSafe Ireland
The Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA)
Facebook Ireland
Castlebridge
Snap Inc.
Microsoft

