
On March 15, the Irish supervisory authority issued a decision imposing a fine of 17 million euros on the company Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (formerly Facebook Ireland Limited).
The decision follows an investigation by the Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC) into twelve data breach notifications they received in the six-month period between 7 June 2018 and 4 December 2018.
The Irish supervisory authority concluded that Meta violated Article 5(2) and Article 24(1) of the GDPR. Also, it was established that the Meta company did not take appropriate technical and organizational measures to adequately protect the personal data of EU citizens.
Given that the processing that is the subject of the investigation constitutes cross-border processing, the decision of the Irish Supervisory Authority was made in accordance with Article 60 of the GDPR, which stipulates that the Lead Supervisory Authority (DPC) cooperates with other relevant supervisory authorities in accordance with this Article in order to tried to reach a consensus. The lead supervisory authority and the relevant supervisory authorities exchange all relevant information with each other.
Objections to the draft decision of the DPC were raised by two European supervisory authorities, and a consensus was reached after additional negotiations between the DPC and the relevant supervisory authorities. Accordingly, the DPC's decision represents the collective view of the Irish data protection supervisory authority and supervisory authorities across the EU, including the Personal Data Protection Agency.
AZOP closely cooperates with the Irish supervisory authority (Data Protection Commission-DPC) and in the implementation of the project Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs (ARC), co-financed by the EU Program for Rights, Equality and Citizenship, which aims to provide support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises when complying with the GDPR. https://arc-rec-project.eu/naslovna/.
At the conference in Dublin, which will be held on May 11, 2022, AZOP, DPC and Vrije University Brussels (partners in the ARC project), will present the results of the project to the international community of data protection experts and data controllers and data protection officers from private and public sector.
At the same time, the partners in the project will promote the results of the project at the Spring Conference of European Supervisory Authorities for Data Protection, organized by AZOP in the period from May 18-20, 2022, which will bring together top experts from more than 50 European supervisory authorities for data protection . https://springconference2022.hr/
