1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00042/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated September 18, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against JESCATH CONTRATAS S.L. with CIF B76330364 (in
hereinafter, the claimed) and address in ***ADDRESS.1.

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the company would have collected data
claims of the claimant within the provision of services without having
provided the information provided for in the data protection regulations and without
respond to the request made by the claimant in the aforementioned sense of request for
information.

Along with the claim, provide a copy of the presumed contract signed with the
claimed on February 27, 2019, stating therein the signature and seal of
the company, as well as the budget presented to the client.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being notified on October 18
of 2019.

No response has been received from the respondent.

THIRD: On February 19, 2019, the information is obtained from the Mercantile Registry
Central in which the address indicated in the antecedent appears as the registered office
first.

FOURTH: On February 24, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of
the aforementioned standard.

FIFTH: Attempted notification of the start agreement, it was returned by
"unknown" on March 2, 2020, so it was reiterated, being again
returned by “unknown” on March 10.

As the notification of the initiation agreement was unsuccessful, we proceeded to
publish an announcement of notification in the Single Edictal Board of the Official Gazette of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

State on June 5, 2020, in accordance with the provisions of article 44 of
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

SIXTH: The State Tax Administration Agency is requested to provide the fiscal domicile
of the claimed, being provided on July 31, 2020 and coinciding with that at
that the notification has been addressed.

SEVENTH: On August 3, 2020, the instructor of the procedure directed a
collaboration request to the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1 to inform
about the current situation of said entity in the aforementioned domicile, as well as that
Provide any contact information you may have.

Before the expiration of the electronic communication of the aforementioned request for
collaboration, on August 31, 2020 a reiteration of this is sent by mail
Postcard.

On November 13, 2020, a response was received from the City Council of
***LOCATION.1 where the following is reported:

“[…]

Having consulted the files of this City Council, the entity appears registered, in the
Tax file, with address at ***ADDRESS.1 street without any reference
phone number, email or fax.

In a local police report, dated October 27, 2020, it is stated that
appeared in the place, several neighbors state that in said property there was a
family that was dedicated to the reform and cleaning of buildings, but that for more than a
year they left the place.”

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The claimant directs a claim to this Agency informing about
that, in contracting a provision of services, the respondent has collected
your personal data without having provided the information provided for in the regulations of
data protection and without having responded to a request for information in this regard.

SECOND: The claimant provides two documents:

1. Contract dated February 27, 2019 with the stamp and signature of the company (although
without filling in the space of customer agreement): it contains some data
personal information of the claimant (name and surnames and address)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

2- Budget with a supposedly provisional date (01/01/1900) and that lacks
of some economic concepts, which also has the stamp and signature of the
business. This document contains the claimant's first name and address.

THIRD: In view of the information provided by the City Council of Las Palmas
In his letter of November 13, 2020, the respondent has ceased his activity in the
registered address in the official databases without a change of
East.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of article 13
of the RGPD, regarding the information that must be provided when the data is
obtained from the interested party, which establishes that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

The violation of this article is typified as an infringement in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
which he considers as such:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

[…] b) the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22; […].”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

For the purposes of the limitation period of the infraction, article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD
establishes:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein, and, in particular, the
following:

[…] h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679. [...]”.

III

The present sanctioning procedure has its origin in the presumed absence of
information regarding the processing of personal data that the claimed party, such as
controller should have provided the claimant within the framework of
a contractual relationship established between the two.

Article 5.1.a) of the RGPD sets forth the principle of “lawfulness, fairness and transparency”,
principle in which Recital 39 affects: "All processing of personal data
It must be lawful and fair. For natural persons, it should be made absolutely clear that
are collecting, using, consulting or otherwise processing personal data
that concern them, as well as the extent to which said data is or will be processed. The
The principle of transparency requires that all information and communication regarding the
treatment of said data is easily accessible and easy to understand, and that it is
use simple and clear language. This principle refers in particular to the
information of the interested parties about the identity of the person in charge of the treatment and the
purposes of the same and to the added information to guarantee a fair treatment and
transparent with respect to the affected natural persons and their right to obtain
confirmation and communication of personal data concerning them that are
treatment object. Individuals must be aware of the risks,
the rules, safeguards and rights relating to data processing
as well as the way to assert their rights in relation to the
treatment. In particular, the specific purposes of the processing of personal data
they must be explicit and legitimate, and must be determined at the time of collection.
[…]”

For its part, Recital 60 links the duty of information with the principle of
transparency, by establishing that “The principles of fair and transparent treatment
require that the interested party be informed of the existence of the treatment operation and
their ends. The data controller must provide the interested party with
supplementary information is necessary to ensure fair treatment and
transparent, taking into account the specific circumstances and context in which
process personal data. The interested party must also be informed of the preparation
of profiles and the consequences of said elaboration. If personal data is
they obtain from the interested parties, they must also be informed if they are obliged to
facilitate them and the consequences if they did not […]”. In this order,
Article 12.1 of the RGPD regulates the conditions to ensure its effectiveness

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

materialization and article 13 specifies what information must be provided when
data is obtained from the interested party.

And in the Spanish regulations, in turn, article 11 LOPDGDD introduces the rule of
layered information when you have:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679. […]”

Analyzing, in relation to the foregoing, the facts proven in the proceeding
sanctioning, it is observed that these suppose well-founded indications of the
provision of data by the claimant to the claimed party in order to proceed
to the conclusion of a service contract as well as in the documents provided
by the claimant (contract and budget) there is no section related to the
information that the respondent, as responsible, should have provided by virtue of
of the application of article 13 of the RGPD.

However, notwithstanding what is stated in the previous paragraph, it must be pointed out that the
obligation to provide the information provided in article 13 of the RGPD does not
must appear, in an essential way, in the documents provided by the
claimant, and may be provided by other means, an extreme that has not been able to
be checked in this procedure. Also, regarding the lack of
response to the claimant's request for information, the absence of contradiction in
the procedural processing has prevented obtaining proof of charge in relation to
this aspect.

IV

The principle of the right to the presumption of innocence, recognized as a right
fundamental subjective in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, prevents imposing
an administrative sanction when proof of
accrediting charge of the facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the
themselves of the alleged offender and applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of
doubt regarding a concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to
resolve said doubt in the most favorable way for the interested party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

The aforementioned right to the presumption of innocence is also included in a
expressed in article 53.2.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), which
establishes that:

"two. In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the alleged
responsible will have the following rights:

[…]b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while
the contrary is proven.”

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of April 26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence
entails: “that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or
incriminators of the alleged conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to
who accuses, without anyone being obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any
insufficiency in the result of the tests carried out, freely valued by the
sanctioning body, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.”

v

In accordance with the above, since it was not possible to conclude the existence of
infringement, there is sufficient reason to proceed with the filing of this
process.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to JESCATH CONTRATAS S.L. with
CIF B76330364 and inform A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

