Half a year data protection basic
regulation

Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection published
Orientation guide "Information obligations of the person responsible"

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, November 26, 2018

Yesterday, November 25, 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation
tion and the new Bavarian Data Protection Act six months old. The
Bavarian administrations have meanwhile gained a lot of experience in
gang with the sometimes still unfamiliar regulations. old questions
arise anew, and many more questions are added. That works
also noted by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
bar: The number of requests for advice is steadily increasing.

Therefore, preventive data protection work is of particular importance
to. Published by the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
on his website https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de
"Data Protection Reform 2018" continuously new information materials
can also be conveniently obtained via RSS newsfeed.

One focus of the consulting practice has been in the last few months
the information obligations of the person responsible. Around that in many places
to counteract existing uncertainties and fears,
As of today, the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection is providing a
Orientation guide "Information obligations of the person responsible" available
tion Based on the consulting practice over the past six
months, the relevant provisions of the data protection
Basic regulation explained comprehensively and practically. The administrative
also receive numerous wording suggestions and text modules
no, to meet the information requirements without unnecessary effort
to be able to

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from November 26, 2018 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “Unfortunately, this is different from the public discussion
is repeatedly assumed serves to fulfill the information obligations
 
not for the purpose of fattening up a bureaucratic monster. Rather, she is one
essential prerequisite for citizens to know
know which of their data is processed for what purpose, and thus their
can actively exercise data protection rights. I am convinced that the
Bavarian state and municipal administrations from the
with the information requirements specified in the General Data Protection Regulation
can meet a reasonable effort. My new orientation
ungshilfe wants to provide instructions with lots of help and practical examples.
ten.”

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

