SUMMARY OF DECISION vs CYPRUS POLICE, which was issued in 2 Parts

Part A Decision regarding the infringement and

Part B Decision regarding the Administrative Sanction

following an ex officio investigation on the occasion of press reports regarding
leakage of personal data by the Cyprus Police, CYTA and
Social Insurance Services

 

Part A (date: May 15, 2019)

On the occasion of numerous publications in the daily press and electronic press from
12/8/2017 until 18/8/2017, which brought and/or involved in addition to CYTA, the
Social Insurance Services and the Cyprus Police (in its capacity as
controller of the Centralized System of the Police and in particular
app or "vehicle owners" database, in a personal leak scandal
data and/or breach of personal data of a number of natural persons from
their databases, the Commissioner decided to investigate the case.

The publications in question brought a member of the Police to search,
printing and sharing documents to an unauthorized third party.

The Commissioner immediately brought the aforementioned publications to the attention of the Police and requested
their confirmation, description of the circumstances of the incident, its nature
violation, the proposed measures to minimize the effects, its consequences
breach and the security measures in place as well as the reasons why they did not
worked and/or was not sufficient or effective to prevent the incident
and finally he took into account the current legislative framework, which would constitute the legal framework
basis for investigating the case.

Rationale and conclusion:

Throughout the investigation, the Police provided full information to the Commissioner
and demonstrated an essential spirit of cooperation.

In this context, he made an admission that his member, which he had as part of his duties
his legal access to the Centralized System and owner database
vehicles, acting outside the lawful orders of the Police, proceeded to
specific searches, locate and print documents, which he then delivers
to a third party (retired Policeman).

The supervisory mechanisms of the Police during the essential time did not work properly and
on time and/or did not perform as expected and as a result were deemed inadequate.

The organizational and technical measures taken by the Police were not satisfactory and do not
proved sufficient to prevent unauthorized disclosure of personal
data to third parties. The taking of additional organizational measures and regular and periodic
conducting internal audits of the tracking files was deemed imperative.

The Commissioner, based on all the evidence before her, concluded that the Police were responsible for her
violation of the provisions of article 32 par. (1)(b) and (d) and par. (4) of the Regulation, as
as a result of actions and/or omissions committed by a member of its staff
in unauthorized disclosure to a third party of personal data registered in
police vehicle owner database, in excess of authorization

 

1

of and despite the orders of the Police, and then set a deadline for the submission
of all the reasons and mitigating/ mitigating factors for which it will not
had to be imposed on it any of the provisions of Article Article
58 (2)(a), (b), (e) and (i), of the GDPR, sanction.

 

Part B' (date 30/9/2020)

The Commissioner after taking into account all the circumstances of the case, the reasoning and the
ending in the Decision Part I as well as the factors that the Police put forward
decided to impose an administrative fine of €6,000 on her, which she considered reasonable
and analogous based on the rationale and conclusion in the Decision (Decision Part A' and
Decision Part B').

Among others, the following were taken into account and taken into account with a positive sign
Police actions:

 The Police took a number of corrective measures to deal with the incident

and to avoid similar incidents in the future,

 Informed the affected natural persons regarding the

leakage of their personal data,

 Proceeded to take corrective measures of its member (availability etc.)
 Training of new members of the police in security issues and

privacy and the intensification of controls in the computerized system.

For the calculation of the administrative fine, they were particularly taken into account as aggravating factors
factors the fact that the Police activated the investigation process
event after the release of the publications as a source of information, as well as
previous decision of the Commissioner dated 30/07/2019 by which it was established
violation of the relevant legislative framework regarding unauthorized disclosure
personal data to third parties.

It is recalled that with the issuance of this Decision, the procedure is completed
ex officio investigation by the Commissioner into the leak of personal data from
the CYTA (Decision 2017 administrative fine €10,000) and the Social Services
Insurance (Decision 2019 administrative fine €9,000).

 

19/10/2020

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

