 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

File number:
Antecedent:
Administrator:

NAIH-740-8/2022.
NAIH-7733/2021.
[…]

Object:

decision rejecting the application

H A T A R O Z A T

 

Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority) […] (a
hereinafter: Applicant) at the request of […] (address: […]; company registration number: […]; hereinafter:
against the Respondent) unlawful processing of personal data and enforcement of the rights of the affected parties
makes the following decision in the official data protection procedure initiated in respect of:
 

 

rejects the request.

 

 
There is no place for administrative appeal against this decision, but from the announcement
within 30 days with a claim addressed to the Metropolitan Court in a public administrative case
can be attacked. The statement of claim must be submitted electronically to the Authority1, which is the case
forwards it to the court together with its documents. The request to hold the hearing must be indicated in the statement of claim
must For those who do not benefit from the full personal tax exemption, the administrative court fee
HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record a material levy. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.
 
 
 

I N D O C O L A S

 
 
 

I. Procedure and clarification of the facts

I.1. Please

On October 14, 2021, the Applicant submitted a submission to the Authority via e-paper,
in which he initiated a data protection official procedure against the Request. Below
in addition to the above, the Applicant attached to his application:

− correspondence with the Application;

− a data protection statement that can be downloaded from the website of the Respondent;

- it was prepared from the data sheet of the Applicant's law firm on the Applicant's website

screenshots;

− as well as an electronic letter received from an acquaintance of the Applicant who a

Referring to the Respondent's website, he inquires about the Applicant's possible financial problems.

 

 

 

 

1 https://birosag.hu/nyomattvanyok/keresetlevel-beterjeszto/urlap-kozigazgatasi-szerv-reszere-keresetlevel
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 

1055 Budapest
Falk Miksa utca 9-11

 

Phone: +36 1 391-1400
Fax: +36 1 391-1410

ugyfelszolgalat@naih.hu
www.naih.hu

I.1.1. Designation of the alleged infringement

indicated public

In the Petitioner's submission, he submitted that his law firm and name ([…]) were indicated in the
On a company information website operated by the applicant2. His law firm - which a
It bears the applicant's name - on its data sheet
information includes a
"number of events affecting credit risk - 1" and "negative events - 1" data,
furthermore, the website also contains additional information for a fee as much as possible, as well as
looking at the law firm.
 
On September 7, 2021, the Applicant requested information from the Applicant by electronic mail on
about the range of personal data processed, their source, and possible recipients in case of data transmission,
about the reason for the "number of events affecting credit risk - 1" data, and requested its deletion a
From your requested website and database. He emphasized that it was aimed at deleting the data
request for both "event affecting credit risk" and "negative event" data
concerned.
 
The Respondent's administrator responded to his request on September 7, 2021, in which he stated,
that the Applicant has failed to declare VAT in May 2021, and until then they cannot
to delete your data as long as they can be found on the NAV website.
 
The Applicant then contacted his accountant, who informed him that due to his omission
he was late in submitting his return in the month of May. All VAT returns after May 2021
was submitted without delay, so after May 2021 the Applicant's law office,
and his name was no longer included in the NAV VAT defaulter list3.
 
On September 10, 2021, the Applicant repeatedly sent an electronic letter to the Applicant,
in which he maintained the contents of his previous application, and - since from the Respondent's answer,
and the Data Protection statement did not reveal the legal basis for data management - it objected
against data processing and requested to send the interest assessment test.
 
On September 20, 2021, the Applicant contacted the Respondent's administrator by telephone at
on the phone number provided in the signature of the electronic mail, indicating that the data of the law firm is not
are listed on the NAV page they refer to. In this regard, the Respondent's administrator submitted,
that "according to them it came to them from the Cégkozlöny" affecting or negative credit risk
event, and since they see that the Applicant is listed in their own database, they do not know these
to delete the data. During the phone call, the Applicant indicated that he maintains his previous application,
which he confirmed in his electronic letter sent on September 17, 2021. For this last letter
did not receive a response from the Applicant until the application was submitted.
 
According to the Applicant's point of view - in view of what has been presented - the Applicant's data processing is illegal
continues, since the law firm indicated by the Applicant's name, as well as the "influencing credit risk
number of events – 1” and “negative event – 1” data together with the name of the Applicant
can be identified by its publication on its website
illegal
implements data management. The Respondent did not indicate a relevant legal basis, the possible one is legitimate
did not prove his interest, and also the personal data of natural persons
regarding its protection and the free flow of such data, as well as a
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter:
General Data Protection Regulation) in violation of Article 12 (1)-(3) and did not comply
Article 14, Article 15, Article 17 (1) point (c), (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
and his request according to Article 21, and is insufficient, inconsistent and not in accordance with reality
provided information on the management of personal data.
 
In relation to data management, the Applicant submitted that it is particularly disadvantageous for him,
forced him to explain himself in front of acquaintances and family members, as well as his professional advancement
can hinder it.
 
In his submission, he asked the Authority that the 2016 CL.
on the basis of § 106 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) by ordering a temporary measure, the Authority

relating to a natural person

2 […]
3 https://nav.gov.hu/nav/adatbazisok/adatbleker/Afa_bevallast_be_nem_nyujto

 

 

2

Delete "events affecting credit risk" from the website operated by the applicant
number - 1" and "negative events - 1" data in all available languages, taking into account
that the end of 2021 and the beginning of 2022 represent a turning point in terms of his career.
He also noted that he did not initiate any other proceedings against the Application.
 
I.1.2. The facts supporting the allegations related to the alleged infringement and their evidence

In the Applicant's submission, preamble (14) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph, which states that "[the] scope of this regulation does not cover such personal
for data management, which applies to legal entities, and which applies in particular to enterprises,
which are created as a legal entity, including the name and form of the legal entity and the legal
personal contact information.'' E
referred to by Data Protection
working group on the concept of personal data 4/2007. s. to his opinion, on the basis of which:

−

−

−

"Information relating to legal entities is also "related" to natural persons
can be considered based on its own characteristics [...]"

"There may be a case where the name of the legal entity is derived from its natural name"

"In all cases where the condition of "content", "purpose" or "result" is possible
makes the information about the legal person or business natural
can be considered as "pertaining" to a person, the information must be considered personal data, and
the data protection rules must be applied."

 
In this connection, he also referred to the European Commission's management of business data
related information sheet4, based on which "related to sole proprietorships
information can be considered personal data if it identifies a natural person
possible."
 
According to the Applicant's point of view, "events affecting credit risk" and "negative
events" in addition to the law firm, to the professional and economic identity of the person concerned, their characteristics,
personal data regarding its reliability. In his opinion, he was chosen by the Respondent
definitions can be said to be particularly broad, they give the impression that they are official, a
investigative evaluations similar to risk evaluations carried out by banks. Instead of the
You have requested public information only relating to the law firm, in the public interest
would make it stand out, uses terminology that in this case is more relevant to the person concerned
leads to understanding, for example, it concerns your financial situation, reliability, creditworthiness. THE
The respondent also did not substantiate the basis on which he came to the conclusion that it was
the creditworthiness and reliability of the affected person and the law firm bearing the affected person's name are negative
would be appreciated.
 
The Applicant pointed out that if it was indicated due to an accountant's mistake, the lawyer's
office CL of 2017 on the taxation system. Act (hereinafter: Art.) according to point l) of § 266,
on the list of public VAT defaulters, so the legislator makes it public - the referenced section
based on - "continuously", which means a daily update according to the interpretation contained in the website of the NAV
means Court of Justice of the European Union C-398/15. s. so-called Based on his reasoning in Manni, since it is
regarding the list of VAT defaulters, the legislator himself decided that the data included in the list
makes it available to others only for the period specified by law, in particular with regard to
Those engaged in activities similar to those of the applicant must also respect it. The Applicant a
also stated in his answer that based on information from May 2021 at the latest, he will list the
objectionable data.
 
The Applicant also referred to Article LXXVIII on lawyer activity. law (hereinafter:
Percussion.) 189-191. §§, which determine that it applies to lawyers and law firms
which data can be made public. Lawyers and law firms are not included in this circle
data on its economic characteristics and reliability. The legislator ensures it in a narrower range
the disclosure of economic information concerning lawyers and law firms, as well as others
case. The Hit. § 8, as well as the rules on the use of names of the chamber regulations
limit the freedom of name selection of one-man law firms: the one-man law firm

4https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/reform/rules-business-and-organisations/application-
regulation/do-data-protection-rules-apply-data-about-company_hu

 

3

 

the lawyer's proper name must be included in the name of the office. Applicant's last name
he is extremely rare and cannot be confused with other, similar lawyers.
 
Based on the above, according to the Applicant's point of view, it can be established that the "influencing credit risk
number of events – 1” and by displaying the “negative events – 1” data a
The requested personal data processing is carried out in an unlawful manner.
 
I.1.3. A definite request for a decision on the remedy of the specified violation

The Applicant requested in his submission that the Authority

−

order an interim measure for “number of events affecting credit risk – 1”,
Regarding the deletion of "negative events - 1pc" data from the Requested website (Fig.
§ 106);

− condemn the Applicant for unlawful data processing based on the information provided (general

Article 58 (2) point b) of the Data Protection Regulation);

− oblige the Applicant to inform the Applicant of the "credit risk influencing
number of events - 1", "negative events - 1" data source, the data transfer
potential recipients, as well as whether the Applicant handles other data
regarding (e.g. data accessible only to subscribers and customers), and
to present an interest assessment test in accordance with the request (general data protection
Article 58 (2) point (c) of the Decree);

- oblige the Applicant to "number of events affecting credit risk - 1", "negative
number of events - 1" to delete data from the website and database of the Requested Party, respectively
to notify the recipients to whom or to whom these data were communicated (general
Article 58 (2) point (g) of the Data Protection Regulation).

 
In addition to the above, the Applicant explained that the administrative fine is imposed by the Authority
according to his competence and point of view - based on what he presented - a fine would be specifically justified
imposition, as well as the public naming of the Applicant.
 
I.2. Statement of the Applicant

On October 26, 2021, the Authority issued NAIH-7733-3/2021. to make a statement in order no
called the Applicant in order to clarify the facts.
 
The Respondent sent its response to the Authority on November 12, 2021. He submitted that the
The data on the website keginformacio.hu, owned and operated by their company, is only such
are entered from public sources, such as the Hungarian Gazette, National Tax and Customs Administration (a
hereinafter: NAV) or the Hungarian Bar Association (hereinafter: MÜK) nationwide
register. According to his position, the Applicant law firm is an independent legal entity.
The data was obtained from public sources, which do not contain any personal data
in this context, it would fall under the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation. In the Applicant's letters a
referred to his personal data and requested information about them, however, such personal data a
According to the applicant, it does not treat. Data deletion requested by the Applicant for an event
applied, which happened and was not denied by the Applicant. According to the Respondent, with the Applicant
it is clear from the correspondence that the Applicant's primary goal is for him
the disappearance of an uncomfortable but at the same time real event, which, however, is also not natural,
but refers to a legal entity, the Applicant's law firm.
 
The Respondent submitted that in its company information database, regarding the Applicant
does not deal with the management of personal data, in its view the Applicant's status is legal
person. In this regard, he referred to the Üttv., according to which "[a] law firm is a legal entity, which
business-like joint legal activity of one or more lawyers or members of the European Community legal profession
on the definition of a legal entity5, the Authority
to continue", kozjegyzotkeresek.hu
to the NAIH/2018/2068/2/K resolution, which states that "[i]t should be raised that the scope of the GDPR
only data management relating to the data of natural persons is covered, so it is not
applies to the processing of data of legal entities and other enterprises", as well as the general
to recital (14) of the data protection regulation.

5 https://kozzeyzotkeresek.hu/szotar/jogi-szemely

 

 

4


In view of the above, the Respondent considers that it does not handle the case of the Applicant's law firm
personal data. The context of the provided data is exclusively that of a lawyer
office economic
is limited to its activities, thus the goal-boundness of data management is realized, which is Requested
in the case of providing information to a third party about the existence of the company and related to it
about events. The General Data Protection Regulation and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights are natural
provides for the protection of the rights of persons, since, however, the Applicant is a legal person, furthermore
data management is related to business-like economic activity, so your data is not protected by it
general data protection regulation.
 
The Respondent also referred to Authority NAIH/2018/5233/4/V. to its resolution no
- according to his interpretation - states that the natural person and the individual are closely related
among the data of a natural person acting in an entrepreneurial capacity, however, this does not mean that
the general data protection regulation applies to sole proprietors conducting business-like economic activities
would protect your data.
 
Company information data displayed on the ceginformacio.hu website cannot be considered personal data
The purpose of its management is to provide a company information service to visitors of the site
for those who want to find out information about the entities included there.
 
The Respondent referred to the Üttv. § 190, paragraph (4), based on which "[t]he bar association
register, paragraph (1) 1-12. and his data according to paragraph (2) are public,
they can be published or released to anyone, their existing data is up-to-date in the lawyer search engine
must be made public.”
 
According to the Respondent's point of view, the information available here is public knowledge, and the purpose of publication is to
this data will reach the persons who want legal services
to use. In this case, the data processing of the Respondent by these third parties is legitimate
is based on your interests, and the purpose is fulfilled by appearing on the keginformacio.hu website. With this
In connection with this, the Respondent repeatedly emphasized that it does not treat the Applicant personally
data, as only the name and address of the independent legal entity are displayed, the name(s) of the member(s) and e-
no email address.
 
In the case of the company database, the legal basis for handling personal data is general data protection
Article 6 (1) point f) of the Decree. As part of the examination of the existence of the legitimate interest a
He completed the requested interest assessment test, during which he was evaluated with special weight
the fact that the subject of data management is always public data, which a
They can be recognized regardless of the requested service.
 
The one in the company database is only official
personal data from sources
its use for specific purposes (in the case of this procedure, the protection of creditors' interests).
in the event that the law states the disclosure of the data. The Respondent uses this legal basis,
when the data of business owners, senior officials, or sole proprietors
manages your data. Credit information plays a vital role in society, enabling a
for companies to check the solvency of their partners. Internet purchases
in the age when the parties conclude a contract with each other online, it is extremely important that a
credit score calculations and lending information quickly reach customers who
who use this in their lending decisions. According to the Respondent's point of view, for lending purposes
personal data used cannot be considered high-risk data processing for the data subject
regarding your privacy, given that you only use data that is public
available from source. Credit rating helps to ensure that both the creditor and the debtor are responsible
make a decision. Since businesses are run by people, it is inevitable that owners and
managers' personal data should be minimally affected due to screenings, at the same time
in all cases, the Respondent expresses an opinion about the company, not about the person, which a
It exists in the case of the applicant, and in addition, these data are always from official sources
are available. The data management has no effect on individuals, at most it has an indirect effect,
that he does not get a loan because the data is not available, so it is also in the individual's interest to be the creditor
have the right information. The leakage of these data does not mean high
security risk, as they are available from a public source. The Applicant

 

5

according to his point of view, he has a legitimate interest in providing the credit information explained above
for data management.
 
The source of the managed data is the MÜK's authoritative national public search engine6. The Respondent is the lawyer
it processes the tax number, name and address of offices, but not other data. From the data found there
The range of data available on the website ceginformcio.hu, concerning the Applicant:

− Tax number: […]

− Full name: […]

− Country: […]

− City: [...]

− Address: […]

The record of the Applicant in the NAV database of VAT return defaulters on May 21, 2021:

"[…]"

Based on the tax ID and the name, there are two data lines in the MÜK and NAV databases
can be connected. The Respondent also noted that the names of the lawyers are also in the public interest
public data, but does not store it.
 
In the Respondent's database, the law firm, as a legal entity, from the above page
name, address and tax number. Due to the nature of the site, the data is managed by the Applicant
it is related to its business-like economic activity, so it cannot be considered personal data. The
the format of the tax number reveals that it is a VAT subject, so it is not personal data. Your company email address
the Applicant is not stored by the Respondent. According to the Respondent, the information is one
they refer to a legal entity, not an identified natural person, such as a law firm
your data does not comply with the provisions of Article 4, Point 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
It was presented by the Respondent, since no personal data is processed in the case of the Applicant, therefore it is not
was able to provide him with information in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. The Applicant
sought the Applicant in the capacity of a law firm, as is also stated in the database,
as a natural person, it does not store data about him, nor any other data that a
In a context not used by the respondent, it could be considered personal data, such as
company e-mail address from which the individual can be identified. 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
article applies to personal data, and since the Respondent does not manage the Applicant's
personal data, so he could not interpret your request and could not inform you about what. If
personal data would also be handled by the Requested Party, in the data management information provided on its website
would act as stipulated.
 
NAV initiated proceedings against the Applicant for failure to file a VAT return, which is information
available on NAV's website7. The procedure was ongoing on May 21, 2021, the following week
was no longer included in the database, as only ongoing procedures are included in NAV
on the side. According to the Respondent's point of view, this event affects the organizations
insolvency risk, which is tested and validated using multivariate statistical methods. THE
When writing the Respondent's reply letter, the Applicant's law office is indeed not listed as NAV
side, and at the same time on the side of the Applicant from a public source, for everyone
available factual data that affects the credit risk and occurred in the past year. THE
The National Intellectual Property Office applied for his research on the methodology of calculations
He also attached the position of his office to his answer. According to the Applicant, if a
The applicant denies the occurrence of this event, so a NAV officer could verify it
with a statement. Based on your requested research, if there was one negative event of this type
against the company in the past year, it increases the probability of insolvency. The validation
the model achieved a GINI value of 87%, so the effect cannot be called a random result. The model
the Applicant also sent its description to the Authority. Display of this data type
serves to draw the attention of potential interested parties to the given fact, who can thus avoid it
possible loss of interest caused by non-payment.
 

6 https://magyarugyvedikamara.hu/html/nyilvanos-kereso/
7 https://nav.gov.hu/nav/adatbazisok/adatbleker/Afa_bevallast_be_nem_nyujto

 

 

6

Since the Applicant is a legal person, the laws applicable to natural persons do not apply to him
data protection rules, so the reasons for data management do not need to be sent to the Requested Party. THE
The Applicant's request for exercise of rights related to personal data, which the Respondent was not aware of
interpret, given that it does not process personal data concerning the Applicant. THE
The applicant's request that the fact according to which his law firm was on the mentioned date a
NAV in the database of VAT return defaulters, the Applicant should delete it, the Applicant could not
to fulfill, because - based on the above argument - I would be disclosing untrue information about the organization that
there is no event affecting credit risk against it. This is historical data that is different
is also available in the service provider's system, for example in the system of […], from which a screenshot was taken
the Respondent also sent it to the Authority. However, this data is also not natural
, but refers to a legal person.
 
The Respondent's position is still that it does not include personal data on the site. THE
Applicant is a legal entity, its data is available from public sources, data management is business-like
related to activity. The following organization types are listed on the page
only legal entities: public company; trust; state and local government budget body;
cooperative; public limited company; limited partnership; limited liability company; joint stock company;
sole proprietorship; association; foundation; public body; notary, executor and lawyer office. On the page
included data comes from a public source, the Respondent has no other connection to it, no
personal data from public sources. Due to the nature of the site, the purpose of data management is
is limited to the business-like economic activities of companies included in the database. Not on the site
neither the registered officials of the organizations nor their personal data are displayed.
 
In order to protect the processed data, the Requested multi-stage technical and organizational
introduced measures, including control of physical access, access to systems
control, control of accesses, control of data transfer and data input, accessibility
checking. The IT security policy detailing this was attached by the Applicant
to your answer.
 
Articles 13 and 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation for the Information of the Data Subjects
complies based on In the case of handling personal data, it is provided as follows
compliance with data protection rules:

− Right to rectification of data: natural persons have the right to correct incorrect, incomplete or outdated data
or it is unnecessary for them to request the correction or addition of their personal data. When the Applicant
data used by is from an official source, you can ask the natural person to
to contact the competent authority to correct the data. The Respondent's position
according to the Applicant, this also applies. Your non-personal information was obtained from an official source
to the Applicant, therefore the amendment must also be requested from the relevant body.

− Right to deletion: the Requested can comply with the request for deletion if the desired deletion
data is processed with the consent of the data subject, and no other legal basis can be indicated for the data
in order to keep. According to his position, he does not treat the Applicant
personal data.

− Right to object: the data subject may object to the processing of his personal data if the data is a
Requested for a purpose other than the provision of the service or the fulfillment of a legal obligation
handled, furthermore, if the data was handled on the basis of consent. If the person concerned objects to the
against further data processing, it may lead to the fact that the Respondent is certain
the possibilities of using its services are also limited. The data subject can prohibit that
uses your personal data for direct marketing purposes, market research or profiling
up the Applicant. He could not comply with the Applicant's objection, as his position
does not manage personal data regarding it.

- Limitation of data processing: the data subject may request that the Respondent restrict certain
handling of personal data, which may lead to the use of its websites and services
the possibility of its use is limited.

- Right to data portability: the data subject has the right to structured, generally used, machine
will receive your personal data in a format readable by However, this is only for those
applies to data obtained directly from a natural person by the Respondent.

 

 

7

The Respondent fully ensures the enforcement of the above rights for those about whom it is personal
has data. The Respondent has a designated or dedicated data protection officer
person deals with managing and ensuring the enforcement of rights.
 
The Requested personal data in relation to the [...] portal only in the case of orders
manages, which applies to public company documents and company reports. The relevant
information is published by the Applicant on its website8.
 
Finally, the Respondent noted that the information presented comes from a public source
and does not display company data that is also personal data. In summary
the above, the Applicant's data was transparently obtained from a public source, represents a range of data
which does not belong to the category of personal data, since the Applicant is an independent legal entity
and the data management is related to the business-like economic activity of the Applicant. The objected to
a VAT default has occurred, it was published on the website of the NAV, and appeared on the page of the Applicant
information is a consequence of this fact.
 
1.3. Other

On January 12, 2022, the Authority issued NAIH-740-1/2022. repeatedly in order no
invited the Applicant to make a statement, in which he asked to send NAIH-7733-3/2021.
the IT security policy referred to in the response sent to order no
A flash drive containing NAV database files dated May 21, 2021. The Authority is the Respondent
he fulfilled his invitation on January 18, 2022.
 
On February 28, 2022, the Authority issued NAIH-740-4/2022. and NAIH-740-5/2022. registration number
in orders called the Respondent and the Applicant that in the official procedure the evidentiary
the procedure has been completed, the evidence revealed during the clarification of the facts with the rules of document inspection
they can get to know each other and make further evidentiary motions.
 
1.4. Declaration of the Applicant

Regarding the evidence uncovered by the Authority on March 7, 2022, the Applicant
submitted a statement in which he maintained his position that the Respondent a
manages your personal data.
 
In connection with recital (14) of the general data protection regulation, he submitted that it is not
states that natural persons whose personal data are not protected either
are handled in relation to a legal person, or through which they can be identified. He referred again in this round
to the opinion of the Data Protection Working Group on the concept of personal data9, as well as the European
For the Commission's information10.
 
He also referred to the European Court of Justice C-92/09. and C-93/09. brought in consolidated cases no
decision, which emphasizes that "the right to privacy is for the protection of personal data
respecting the law - which is stipulated in Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and
Article 8 recognizes - all related to an identified or identifiable natural person
covers information. Consequently, legal entities can only benefit from the Charter
in its protection according to Articles 7 and 8, if the legal entity can be identified by its official name
one or more natural persons. This is the case if based on the official name of a company
the natural persons participating as members can be directly identified"; C-419/14. no
to a decision made in a case in which the European Court of Justice found it applicable on the basis of
provisions on the protection of personal data, that the official name of the legal entity
can be identified with a natural person based on; and the European Data Protection Commissioner
5/2021. to his opinion no. 11, which states: "[e]ven the data concerning legal persons may
therefore in some cases be considered as personal data, as clarified by the CJEU. In these
cases, the determining factor is whether the information 'relates to' an 'identifiable' natural person."
 

 

8 […]
9 4/2007 opinion on the concept of personal data
10 https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/reform/rules-business-and-organisations/application-
regulation/do-data-protection-rules-apply-data-about-company_hu
11 https://edps.europa.eu/system/files/2021-03/21-03-11_edps_nis2-opinion_en.pdf

8

 

office

regarding

also that the lawyer

Regarding the relationship between the individual law firm and the member of the individual lawyer
highlighted: the name of the law firm is the same as his own, and their data is different
matches also exist; for the debts of the one-person law firm, the one-person lawyer is a member
liable with his own assets; only he can act on behalf of the law firm as a sole member; the
clients and members of the public identify the law firm and the procedure with the lawyer; the
data management does not serve a public purpose, it does not apply to public money, it is solely the responsibility of the Requested Party
serves its economic interest.
 
In view of the above, there is a close relationship between the one-person law firm and its registered lawyer
personal connection can be shown, the individual member lawyer of the relevant European court
based on legal practice, he is entitled to his own name appearing in the name of the law firm, as well as its name
for the protection of personal data in relation to data processed in connection with
 
The Applicant further explained that the Respondent mistakenly referred to personal data as company data
to the data of
is not classified as a company by law, a
is not listed in the company register either. It is also not true that the
To the respondent, the e-mails sent to him are clearly in accordance with the general data protection regulation
a stakeholder request was formulated.
 
According to the Applicant's point of view, the construction of the database by the Respondent is public data in the public interest
in several cases, it goes beyond the purpose justified by the public interest.
 
The purpose of the bar register is to identify those practicing as lawyers. The
Percussive however, it does not stipulate that law firms or lawyers have economic, financial,
your tax information should be public. According to the Applicant, the legislator did not consider it necessary
the disclosure of this data, because lawyers and law firms are primarily professional and not
they participate in society as economic actors. The Hit. defined in § 190
Chamber registration is therefore not aimed at lawyers and law firms from an economic point of view
checking. Accordingly, by the Respondent, the Applicant Üttv. based on public interest
the management of your public personal data violates the principle of purpose-bound data management, given that
data management serves the economic interests of the Respondent.
 
"event affecting credit risk" or "negative event" linked to the name of the Applicant
comments - in line with C-434/16 with those written in case no. - also as personal data
are considered, in connection with which the Requested Party must prove the purpose and legal basis of data management, furthermore
compliance with the basic principles according to Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which
also failed.
 
Based on what the Respondent submitted, the "event affecting credit risk" and "negative
"event" is based on the failure to file a previous VAT return. Section l) of Art. 266
determines that NAV continuously publishes the list of VAT defaulters, so the legislator
determined the maximum period until the fact of the default is public information in the public interest
can be handled. Beyond this period, the fact of failure can only be considered "pure" personal data,
therefore, it can only be handled with the support of a suitable legal basis. The Applicant is also the contingent
past default is defined as the difficult-to-interpret "event affecting credit risk" or "negative
event" with data, marking it as an existing deficiency, which thus also violates the principle of accuracy. THE
According to the Applicant's point of view, the Respondent could not clearly prove why it was necessary
continuous display of the referenced data, despite the legislator's short,
ordered their publication for a specified period of time.
 
Since, according to the Applicant's point of view, the Respondent manages his personal data, this should have been the case
also indicate the legal basis. In this regard, he submitted that from the Requested response, as well as the data management
due to its nature, the legal basis for data management is Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
it may be a legitimate interest according to paragraph f). In this case, the Requested Party must inform in advance
it should have been at least about the result of the consideration of interests, and it should have been presented in detail upon request.
Furthermore, since he exercised the right to object according to Article 21 of the General Data Protection Regulation, a
The respondent should have presented those coercive factors in the individual interest assessment test
legitimate reasons that take precedence over the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject
opposite.
 

 

9

Since the case concerns the management of personal data, the reality is that it is a VAT return
related omission, does not exonerate the Applicant, as the data management is quite questionable
omission and it occurred after its deletion from the register, and the tax authority did not
established the sanction for the Applicant or his office. The fact of VAT default a
At the time of the requested data processing, there was no public interest data, it was "purely" personal
treated as data, and the legal basis for data processing should have been verified. The reason for the failure is solely
was an "accountant's error", and the general observations made in the Respondent's research do not justify,
that in the case of the Applicant, non-payment or inadequate service provision
its risk would be greater due to default, and also that the "influencing credit risk
event" or "negative event" data, the person browsing the database must necessarily a
it would infer the fact of an omission related to a previous VAT return. This is important because a
He already applied when the Applicant contacted him, he knew what it was like
in form
is active, and what source the data in question comes from, so there was sufficient information a
at your disposal in order to identify the interests of the data subject and the data manager, and the appropriate one
come to a conclusion.
 
According to the Applicant's point of view, the Respondent ignored it when creating its database
aspects related to data protection compliance, which is supported by the Requested side
Legal statement12 is available, which states that "[t]he information on this page
collected and examined to the best of our knowledge. But responsibility is displayed
we cannot guarantee the correctness of the information."
 
The Applicant, to the Respondent's argument that its data is "historical", which is available differently
service provider, such as in […]'s system, stated that he could not verify it because
requests registration for access to negative events on the service provider's website, furthermore
added that it cannot be based on possible unlawful data processing by another service provider
legality of data management for additional data controllers. Furthermore, the data management of the Respondent
poses a greater risk to the protection of personal data as it is a significant part of your database
public, viewable without registration.
 
In this context, the Applicant referred to 2021 of the administrative court of Wiesbaden, Germany.
to its decision made in October13, which established that it was taken from the public register
handling personal data constitutes illegal data processing, especially in the case where
the data are processed during the period after deletion from the public state register.
 
According to the Applicant's point of view, in view of the above, it can be established that the Respondent is not
he substantiated his legitimate interest, his consideration of interests was incomplete, he was ignored by the gradualism
principle and did not prove why it would be the last one according to the NAV register if necessary
data management in the public database of the Applicant for a period exceeding the date.
 
According to the Applicant's point of view, furthermore - the French data protection authority so-called In the Monsanto case
in accordance with its decision14 - the Respondent should have informed that
from which source it collects its personal data, or in connection with the service it provides, business
manages it based on its interests. This information obligation should have been proactively and individually
comply with before the start of data management, but still in a general way, on the website
available in the "Data Protection Statement" or "Data Protection Data Security Policy" document
or did not comply in any other form. The Respondent's failure to provide information offends him
also defined in Article 5 (1) point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
also the principle of legality, fair procedure and transparency, since the data management is thus opaque, that is
denied the fact of data management, made it difficult for the data subject to exercise their rights.
 
In view of the above, the Applicant continued to request that the Authority comply with his request
bind the Applicant.
 
 
 

 

12 […]
13 https://www.rv.hessenrecht.hessen.de/bshe/document/LARE210001979
14 https://www.cnil.fr/fr/node/121570

 

10

1.5. Second statement of the Respondent

too

continue

The statement submitted by the Applicant on March 8, 2022 revealed by the Authority
regarding evidence.
 
According to the Respondent's point of view, the objected to is a non-filing VAT return and other closed by the NAV
deleting events, so not taking them into account during the risk analysis would have a negative effect
for creditor decision-making. These events are primary indicators of a liquidation process
from the point of view of its forecast, regardless of whether it is closed or in force. For this
in support, the Applicant sent from January 1, 2022 to March 4, 2022
the database of liquidated companies and all related NAVs published
event that was valid for at least 1 day after January 1, 2021. In this period
Liquidation proceedings were initiated against 1,015 companies, of which 932 companies (91.8%) had some
with a negative event published by NAV, which was effective even after January 1, 2021, of which 205
in the case of the company, there was still a procedure closed in 2021, i.e. in the case of so many insolvencies
(20.1%) would not reach creditors with information that would influence their business decisions and
would protect you from the risk of non-payment. In view of this, according to the Respondent's point of view, the data is
from the point of view of the purpose of data management
relevant. According to his creditors and
in general, it is in the national economic interest that this information is provided by them and their competitors
be available in the form used by
 
554 (52.7%) companies from events related to failure to declare VAT, which is the subject of the procedure
there is a related record, of which in 94 (9.2%) cases there was already a closed event before the liquidation,
thus, a given creditor would have made its business decision without knowing this information.
 
The Respondent attached all the referenced events for the given period to his statement
containing a database, based on which only 9.7% of companies were not subject to the liquidation procedure
was involved in one of the investigated procedures, and 4.4% in the case of failure to declare VAT
was involved. It can be seen from this that the given events are almost ten times higher in the collapsed group
are represented compared to the well-functioning group.
 
According to the Respondent's point of view, it has a legitimate interest in providing the credit information described above
for data management, since the goal related to its core activity as a company rating agency is that the creditor a
make your decision based on available relevant information, thus minimizing the
the risk of potential damage in the event of non-payment. At the discretion of the Applicant
at the same time, these data are data on the reliability of an economic organization, no
personal data. Based on the Applicant's argument, all legal entities would fall out of this circle, where
the
so all of them
sole proprietorship, all approximately 525,000 active Hungarians
182,000 from the entity in this case. According to the Respondent's interpretation, cases where
data processing takes place in the context of the business and economic activities of the data subject, they are not included
subject to the general data protection regulation. Failure to file a VAT return is only for the farmer
can be linked to organizations, as natural persons do not have such a declaration obligation, thus
it is not practical to interpret this as data management affecting the private sector.
 
 
II. Applicable legal provisions
 
VI of the Basic Law. based on Article (3), everyone has the right to the protection of their personal data,
and to learn and disseminate data of public interest.
 
XXIV of the Basic Law. based on Article (1), everyone has the right to have their affairs a
authorities without bias, in a fair manner and within a reasonable deadline. The authorities
as defined by law, they are obliged to justify their decisions.
 
Based on Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation
must be used to manage personal data in whole or in part in an automated manner,
as well as for non-automated processing of personal data that
are part of a registration system or which become part of a registration system
they want to do.
 

behind a single identifiable legal entity

person of owner,

 

11

under the scope of the decree

for data management related to

General data protection
informative
CXII of 2011 on the right to self-determination and freedom of information. law (hereinafter:
Infotv.) According to paragraph (2) of § 2, the general data protection regulation is indicated there
shall be applied with the additions specified in the provisions.
 
According to Article 4, point 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "personal data": you are identified
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"); it is possible to identify the a
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular an identifier, for example
name, number, location data, online identifier or physical, physiological,
one or more factors related to your genetic, intellectual, economic, cultural, social identity
can be identified based on
 
Based on Article 4, point 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data management": on personal data
or any operation performed on data files in an automated or non-automated manner or
set of operations, such as collection, recording, organization, segmentation, storage, transformation or
change, query, insight, use, communication, transmission, distribution or otherwise
by way of making it available, coordination or connection, limitation, deletion,
or destruction.
 
Pursuant to Article 4, point 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data controller": the natural or legal one
person, public authority, agency or any other body that is the personal data
determines the goals and means of its treatment independently or together with others; if the data management
its purposes and means are determined by EU or Member State law, the data controller or the data controller
EU or member state law can also determine special aspects for its designation.
 
Pursuant to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, other administrative or
without prejudice to judicial remedies, all interested parties are entitled to file a complaint
with a supervisory authority - in particular your usual place of residence, place of work or presumed
in the Member State where the infringement took place - if, according to the judgment of the data subject, the relevant personal
processing of data violates this regulation.
 
Infotv. According to § 2, paragraph (2), personal data is the general data protection regulation
under the scope of the general data protection regulation, III-V. and VI/A. In chapter,
and in points 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 23-24 of § 3, paragraph (5) of § 4, the
Paragraphs (3)-(5), (7) and (8) of Section 5, Paragraph (2) of Section 13, Section 23, Section 25, Section 25/G. §
(3), (4) and (6) of the 25/H. in paragraph (2) of § 25/M. in paragraph (2) of § 25/N. §-
in, 51/A. in paragraph (1) of § 52-54. §, § 55 (1)-(2), § 56-60. §-in,
the 60/A. (1)-(3) and (6) of § 61, points a) and c) of § 61 (1), § 61 (2) and (3)
in paragraph (4), point b) and (6)-(10), and also in 61/A-61/D. §-in,
62-71. §, § 72, § 75 (1)-(5), § 75/A. § and in Annex 1
must be used with specific additions.
 
Infotv. Based on Section 3.6, data that is public in the public interest does not fall under the concept of public interest data
all data related to the disclosure or availability of which you are
making it accessible is ordered by law in the public interest.
 
Infotv. Pursuant to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority's task for the protection of personal data,
as well as for learning data of public interest and public in the public interest
law
control and promotion of its validity, as well as personal data within the European Union
facilitating its free flow. The duties and powers of the Authority are general data protection
Regulation Article 57 (1), Article 58 (1)-(3) and Infotv. Paragraphs (2)-(4) of § 38
be defined in detail.
 
Infotv. The right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1) and (2).
in order to enforce it, the Authority is a data protection authority at the request of the data subject
initiates a procedure and may initiate a data protection official procedure ex officio. The official data protection procedure
request for the initiation of the General Data Protection Regulation in Article 77 (1), as well as a
It can be submitted in the case specified in point b) of § 22.
 

 

12

In the absence of a different provision of the General Data Protection Regulation, data protection initiated upon request
for official procedure, the Acr. provisions shall be applied with the deviations specified in Infotv.
 
Infotv. According to § 61, paragraph (1), point a), it was made in the official data protection procedure
in its decision, the Authority issued Infotv. with the data management operations specified in paragraph (2) of § 2
in the context of general data protection
according to paragraph (2).
may apply legal consequences. Accordingly, acting within the Authority's corrective powers:

Article 58 of the Decree

a) warns the data manager or the data processor that some draft data management

its activities are likely to violate the provisions of this regulation;

b) condemns the data manager or the data processor if its data management activities

violated the provisions of this regulation;

c) instructs the data manager or the data processor to comply with this regulation for the data subject

your request to exercise your rights under;

d) instructs the data manager or the data processor that its data management operations - given
in a specified manner and within a specified period of time - harmonises this regulation
with its provisions;

e) instructs the data controller to inform the data subject about the data protection incident;
f) temporarily or permanently restricts data management,

including data management

also its prohibition;

g) in accordance with the provisions of Articles 16, 17 and 18, orders personal data
rectification or deletion, or restriction of data processing, as well as Article 17 (2)
and in accordance with Article 19, orders the notification of those recipients,
with whom or to which the personal data was disclosed;

h) revokes the certificate or instructs the certification body to comply with Articles 42 and 43
to withdraw a duly issued certificate or instruct the certification body to
do not issue the certificate if the conditions for certification are not or are no longer met;

i) imposes an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the given case

depending, in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph; and

j) orders the flow of data to a recipient in a third country or an international organization

suspension.

 
Infotv. 75/A. §, the Authority in paragraphs (2)-(6) of Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation
exercises its powers taking into account the principle of proportionality, in particular by a
relating to the processing of personal data - in legislation or the European Union is mandatory
in the event of the first violation of the regulations specified in the act, the violation
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation - primarily that
takes action with the warning of a data controller or data processor.
 
The Akr. Pursuant to § 17, the authority has its authority and competence in all stages of the procedure
investigates ex officio. If you notice the absence of one of them and it can be established beyond doubt in the case
competent authority, transfers the case, failing which the request is rejected or
terminates the procedure.
The Akr. Based on § 106, paragraph (1), the authority - regardless of its powers and jurisdiction
- is obliged to take the temporary measure ex officio, in the absence of which the delay will occur
would result in irreparable damage, danger or irreparable infringement of personal rights. THE
authority immediately notifies the competent authority of the action taken.
 
The Hit. Pursuant to § 8, paragraph (1), the natural person practicing law is his or her own
uses his family name and surname or his birth name as well as his doctorate title according to § 4 - az
defined in the ministerial decree on the professional designations of European Community lawyers
– with reference to quality.
 
The Hit. Pursuant to § 23, paragraph (1), the following are incompatible with the practice of law:
a) with the exception specified in this law, employment, government service, a
public service, tax and customs service, health service, civil servant,
law enforcement administrative employee, national defense employee, law enforcement, professional or
legal employee at a contractual military, forensic expert institution
employment relationship, as well as the legal status of a notary, court bailiff,
b) membership in a business association with unlimited liability,
c) all other activities involving an obligation to work and performed in return for consideration.

13

 


The Hit. Pursuant to § 57, paragraph (1), the lawyer conducts legal activities in a business-like, individual manner
as a lawyer or as a member of the law firm, in addition to assuming one's own economic risk - the e
with the exception defined by law - it is exercised on behalf of its client.
 
The Hit. Based on Section 87 (1), a law firm is a legal entity that one or more
lawyer or member of the European Community legal profession to pursue business-like joint legal activities
establishes, and for which the member's obligation towards the law firm is in the founding deed
for the provision of specified property and other property values specified in the founding deed
covers service.
 
The Hit. Pursuant to § 189, paragraph (1), the bar association register - in Annex 1
with public authority in a defined circle - includes the activities of lawyers and legal assistants
the data of a natural person practitioner specified in Annex 1.
 
The Hit. Pursuant to § 189, paragraph (2), in Appendix 1 of the bar association register
specified existing, deleted and changed data are public, your existing and public data
and it must be published up-to-date in the lawyer search engine.
 
The Hit. Pursuant to § 190, paragraph (1), the bar association register includes the law firm
1. bar association registration number,
2. your name,
3. your office address,
4. the address of your branch office,
5. the address of its sub-office,
6. your phone number,
7. the Eüsztv. its availability for electronic contact according to
8. your email address,
9. your website address,
10. the name of the office manager or office managers, the type of their representation authority, and their mandate
scope,
11. name and chamber identification number of its members,
12. the name and registration number of the law association operating with his participation, as well as the lawyer's
office association registration number,
13. the name of the property owner,
14. natural personal identification data other than the name of the property member,
15. the address of your archive,
16. your tax number, as well as
17. the amount of its registered capital.
 
The Hit. Based on § 190, paragraph (2), it is included in the bar association register
a) data relating to the merger, separation, legal successor and predecessor of the law firm,
b) the start and end date of the procedure for the termination of the law firm without legal successor,
c) in the case of a law firm undergoing bankruptcy proceedings, the name of the trial court, assigned by the court
property inspector's name and official mailing address,
d) in the case of a law firm undergoing liquidation proceedings, the liquidator appointed by the court, and a
the name and official mailing address of the liquidator appointed by the liquidator,
e) the name and official mailing address of the office manager appointed by the regional chamber, as well as
f) the name and chamber identification number of the deputy lawyer of the one-person law firm.
 
The Hit. Pursuant to § 190, paragraph (3), the bar association register is in accordance with paragraphs (1) 1-13. point
and includes the data in accordance with points a) and b) of paragraph (2) in a public manner.
 
The Hit. Pursuant to § 190, subsection (4), the bar association register has subsection (1) 1-12.
point and paragraph (2) are public, can be published or released to anyone,
your existing data must be disclosed in the lawyer search engine in an up-to-date manner.
 
5/2017 on the detailed rules for the use of names of lawyers. (XI. 20.)
MÜK regulations (hereinafter: MÜK regulations) 2.1. the natural person based on point
Chamber name is included

14

 

a) if he has one, his doctorate, as well as
b) at your choice, your family and first name on your identification card
or birth surname and first name.
 
2.3 of the MÜK regulation. based on point 2.1, the regional bar association name according to point b).
instead of using it - if the reasons for it are at least plausible by the applicant - you can allow:
a) according to the laws in force at the time of registration or at the time of permission to use the name
any married name can be added,
b) the maiden surname and first name of the lawyer's mother,
c) in addition to adding or omitting an additional surname, 2.1. name according to point b),
d) distinctive room name or immediately preceding or following the surname
in addition to a distinctive suffix, 2.1. you are a name according to point b).
e) indication of the academic degree included in your identification card
in addition to 2.1. name according to point b).
use, if it does not conflict with the principle of name authenticity and name exclusivity.
 
3.1 of the MÜK regulation. point, the name of the law firm is included
a) one or more of its members
aa) can be used based on these regulations, 2.1. point b) or 2.3. according to point
authorized name or
ab) surname or family name at birth, as well as
b) the "lawyer firm", except in the case of a law firm consisting of European Community lawyers, the "European
community legal office".
 
Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code (hereinafter: Civil Code) 3:1. (1) of §
on the basis of which the legal entity has legal capacity: it may have rights and obligations.
 
The Civil Code 3:1. Based on § (2), the legal capacity of a legal entity covers all such rights and
obligation, which by its nature cannot only be attached to humans.
 
The Civil Code 3:1. § (3) on the rights of the legal person related to the person and on the personal rights
applicable rules must be applied, unless by nature of the protection only the person
may be entitled to it.
 
The Civil Code 3:2. Pursuant to § (1), the legal entity is liable for its obligations with its own assets
to hold true; the members and the founder of the legal entity are not responsible for the debts of the legal entity.
 
The Civil Code 3:3. Based on § (1), the general rules of the legal person must be applied if this Act
does not provide differently for each type of legal entity.
 
The Civil Code 3:3. Based on § (2), the general rules of the legal entity must be applied accordingly
for the type of legal entity not regulated in this Act.
 
Act V of 2006 on company publicity, court company proceedings and liquidation (the
hereinafter: Ctv.) based on paragraph (1) of § 10, the company register from the company register, as well as the
from the annexes used to verify data in the company register, or from other such documents
which the company is required to submit - in the public interest, traffic safety, and its creditors
required by law for the purpose of protecting interests (hereafter together: company documents).
 
The Ctv. Based on § 10, paragraph (2), the existing or deleted data of the company register, as well as the company documents -
including company documents submitted electronically or converted into electronic documents -
are fully public. Tax registration procedure according to the Act on Taxation
after its successful completion, the submitted, but not yet completed, are also fully public
the application for registration and its annexes were also criticized with the fact that the application for registration (change registration)
the company registry must indicate that the assessment is in progress. Legality supervisory
the procedure documents are public according to the provisions of this law.
 
Based on point l) of Art. 266, the state tax and customs authority is the taxpayer's tax liability
published on its website for the legal fulfillment and legal use of budget support
continuously the name, title, place of residence, registered office, place of business, tax number of the taxpayer,

15

 

who has a VAT return obligation for more than two - consecutive, applicable - return periods
through does not comply.
 
 
III. Decision of the Authority
 
The Applicant is a lawyer and conducts his legal activities through his one-person law firm,
which is the Üttv. Pursuant to § 87, paragraph (1), a legal entity. In the present procedure, the Authority had to do so
to decide whether the data relating to the one-person law firm as a legal entity is also a
Are they classified as personal data concerning the requesting natural person.
 
Pursuant to Article 4, point 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data is the identified or
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"). Deciding that
when determining whether or not some information is classified as personal data, the three conceptual elements of the definition
must be examined:

− form and content criteria of the data (“any information”);
− the identified or identifiable natural person ("data subject");
− the relationship between the data and the data subject ("relevant").

During the procedure, the data ("number of events affecting credit risk - 1", "negative
events – 1 pc”) and the relationship between the Applicant was the subject of the investigation by the Authority.
 
There are situations when the demarcation of private and public information
unclear. The Authority NAIH/2018/5233/4/V. the individual was dealt with in its resolution no
with the personal data quality of entrepreneurs' data. In this round, the Authority established that it is
an individual entrepreneur is a natural person who engages in economic activity, such as e
personal data related to its activities by anyone based on the relevant laws
recognizable, i.e. Infotv. In accordance with point 6 of § 3, public data in the public interest,
which retain their personal data quality despite the publicity. However, it is important
to note that in the case of sole proprietors the business and private spheres come together, no
it is possible to make a clear and unambiguous distinction, the economic activity is not a separate one
carried out by an entity, so in their case the relevant legislation exhaustively lists the data areas
the disclosure of which is limited to a necessary and proportionate extent by personal data
the right to protection in order to assert the public interest related to traffic safety. Present
at the same time, this fact is judged differently, since it was published by the Respondent and by the Applicant
objected to data relating to the Applicant's law firm as a legal entity.
 
The General Data Protection Regulation repeatedly uses the term legal entity,
without defining it separately, or
there would be a uniform, EU-level regulation for it
definitions. In general, it can be said that data protection standards rarely apply
can be interpreted on their own: the regulation, although it forms an independent regime, is in practice tight
is related to some other area of law, and must be interpreted together with it, taking this into account. For this
accordingly, to decide the main issue of this procedure, the Civil Code is essential. and the relevant sector
examining the provisions of legislation.
 
The Hit. in the relevant part of his commentary, he clearly states that the law firm is from its members
enters into civil legal relations as an independent, self-contained entity, thus not a member of the law firm
can be considered the owner of the assets of the law firm, as is the status of the law firm,
its legal status also remains intact in the event of a change in the composition of the membership. The law firm
civil law legal capacity is absolute, by their nature only the rights related to man and
with the exception of obligations, any right or obligation may apply.
 
The Hit. in the absence of a different provision, the law office is subject to the Civil Code. relating to legal entities
rules must be applied. The current Hungarian private law regulations are legal entities
to recognize its legal status in civil legal relations: accordingly, you are certain bodies
assets can become separate from the members or founders regardless of their legal status
subject to rights and obligations. The Civil Code his commentary states that civil law is a different branch of law
wants to impose rights and obligations on legal entities recognized as legal entities, about
must have a separate provision, which, however, is independent of the private legal entity of the legal entity.

 

16

In the same way, if a given organization in another jurisdiction becomes the subject of rights and obligations, it is not
establish the body's legal personality under civil law.
 
Although it may seem based on the above, the concept of legal entity constituted by civil law is exclusively private law
can be interpreted in context, it goes beyond civil studies and has relevance in other areas of law as well.
Accordingly, it appears in criminal law (applicable to legal entities
CIV of 2001 on criminal law measures. law) or also in data protection regulations.
 
The right to the protection of personal data belongs to the rights related to the person, its purpose is the individual
protecting your privacy and ensuring information self-determination. The position of the Authority
according to a legal entity, the legal entity and the natural person(s) behind it well
can be separated, even if it is owned by one person and has the name of a natural person
wears A natural person necessarily acts on behalf and in the interest of the legal person, that is
favors a legal entity: although the natural person representing the legal entity and the legal
person's interests usually coincide, such personal implications do not justify that
the legal facts related to the legal person in any way into the private sphere
to be considered classified.
 
There is no doubt that in the case of a one-person law firm, it is between a natural person and a legal person
relationship is much closer than that between a joint-stock company and its shareholders. At the same time
dogmatically, it would put the legal practitioner in an almost impossible situation, if for certain legal entities
regarding the relevant data, the quality of their personal data would be recognized. Because though it is
in the case of a legal entity owned by one person, this would result in a clear situation, it could not
to clearly determine exactly how many people would have ownership shares after their membership
the relationship between natural and legal persons is too distant. If we accept that one
in the case of an owner, the fact of the event affecting the credit risk concerning the legal entity a
information about a natural person, then the quality of personal data is one
it would also undeniably exist in the case of a two-person limited liability company. Accordingly
it could not be in accordance with the requirements of legal certainty, predictability and predictability
to determine exactly what the quantitative limit is, starting from which the legal entity
the relationship between the relevant data and the owners is too distant to be personal at the same time
also qualify as data.
  
The Applicant rightly referred to the fact that special rules for law firms still apply
they make the relationship between the legal entity and its owner clearer: the name of the law firm
it must contain the name of the member, and strict conflict of interest rules for lawyers
apply, so in many cases, lawyering is the only source of income for lawyers. From this
regardless, however, in view of what was explained above, a separate one was also made in the case of the law firm
we are talking about legal entity, it is clearly demarcated which one
Rights and obligations
apply to the law firm and which apply to the member of the law firm as a natural person.
It should also be noted that the Üttv. Paragraph (1) of § 57, the continuation of the lawyer's activity is
for a lawyer as a member of the law firm and as an individual lawyer, which is the individual
can be related to entrepreneurial status. Accordingly, the law gives the opportunity to the lawyer
to carry out activities in a form that involves more limited publicity. Legal person
in the course of economic activity carried out through
also with disadvantages such as the requirement for increased transparency. So if the lawyer is
discretionary with regard to economic and financial data related to his legal activities
strives, it must carry out its activities in a form corresponding to it.
 
In his application, the Applicant referred to the opinion of working group 2915 of 4/2007 (hereinafter:
WP136) on the concept of personal data. In this regard, the Authority considers it important to state: WP136
is not among the opinions that the European Data Protection Board provides for general data protection
also ordered to be applied in relation to the decree.16 There is no doubt that the WP136 opinion
there are findings that are also correct with regard to the general data protection regulation,
as well as the "content" for establishing the applicability of the data to a natural person,
Examining "goal" or "outcome" elements. The WP136 opinion is the latter, "result" condition
acknowledges that in the case of information about a small business that can characterize it

 

15 Working group on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, which is
It was established on the basis of European Parliament and Council Directive 95/46/EC of October 24, 1995.
16 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/news/endorsement_of_wp29_documents_en_0.pdf

17

 

behavior of its owner, the information must be considered personal data and data protection
rules must be applied.
 
In this context, the Authority continues to maintain its position expressed above, according to which the Applicant
the data to be deleted in this procedure are not personal data, but the 2007 WP136
reasoning contained in the opinion, as well as the decision made by the European Court of Justice referred to by the Applicant
decisions (C-92/09 and C-93/09. [2010], C-419/14. [2015]) in connection with the general
considers preamble (14) of the data protection regulation to be applicable, which expressis verbis
states that the scope of the regulation does not cover personal data management that is legal
persons, and which applies in particular to enterprises that, as legal entities
Were created.
 
In view of the above, the Authority rejects the Applicant's request, as in the absence of personal data
it cannot be established that Article 6, Paragraph 1, Point f) of the General Data Protection Regulation, Article 12
(1)-(3), Articles 14 and 15, Article 17(1)(c) and (2)
and violation of Article 21.
 
Furthermore, the Authority did not find it justified to order the Applicant a temporary measure
nor his request for The provisional measure is so special in administrative procedure law
legal institution, during the application of which the ordering authority does not have to take into account the
authority and jurisdiction rules, it entitles him not only to make a formal decision,
but to perform an actual act, even without its formal order. It's temporary
the condition for ordering a measure is a dangerous situation, a threat of irreparable harm,
which necessitates a commensurate intervention. According to the Authority's point of view, the procedure
the inclusion of the data that is the subject of this does not in any way cause any harm to the interests that justified it
would have applied such an exceptional legal institution.
 
 
ARC. Other questions
 
IV.1. During the procedure, the Authority exceeded Infotv. 60/A. One hundred and fifty days according to paragraph (1) of §
administrative deadline, therefore the Ákr. Pursuant to point b) of paragraph (1) of § 51, ten thousand forints shall be paid a
To the applicant - according to his choice - by bank transfer or postal order.
 
IV.2. The Authority's decision is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on paragraph (1) of § 61. THE
decision of the Akr. Based on § 82, paragraph (1), it becomes final with the communication. The Akr. § 112 and 116
Paragraphs (1) and (4) point d) of § 114 and § 114 (1) with the decision
on the other hand, there is room for legal redress through a public administrative lawsuit.
 

* * *.

The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. § 13, subsection (3) a)
Based on point aa), the Capital City Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27, paragraph (1).
On the basis of point b), legal representation is mandatory in a lawsuit within the jurisdiction of the court. The Kp. Section 39 (6)
according to paragraph of the submission of the claim for the administrative act to take effect
does not have a deferral effect.
 
The Kp. Paragraph (1) of Section 29 and, in view of this, CXXX of 2016 on the Code of Civil Procedure. law
(hereinafter: Pp.) applicable according to § 604, electronic administration and trust
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of services Act (hereinafter: E-
administrative tax.) According to point b) of § 9, paragraph (1), the client's legal representative is electronic
obliged to maintain contact.
 
The time and place for filing a claim against the Authority's decision is set by Kp. Section 39 (1)
paragraph Information about the possibility of a request to hold a hearing can be found in Kp.
It is based on paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77. The amount of the administrative lawsuit fee is determined by the 1990 Law on Fees.
year XCIII. Act (hereinafter: Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. The fee is in advance

 

18

from the payment of the Itv. Paragraph (1) of Section 59 and point h) of Paragraph (1) of Section 62 exempt the procedure
initiating party.
 
Infotv. According to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data, as well as
the enforcement of the right to access data of public interest and public interest
control and promotion, as well as the free flow of personal data within the European Union
facilitating. According to paragraph (2a) of the same § in the general data protection regulation, the supervisory
tasks and powers established for the authority under the jurisdiction of Hungary
with regard to legal entities, they are defined in the general data protection regulation and this law
according to the Authority.
 
The Authority's jurisdiction covers the entire territory of the country.
 
 
Budapest, April 25, 2022.
 
 
 
 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

president

c. professor

 

19

