1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00301/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 02/10/2020 it had entry, from the CATALAN AGENCY OF
DATA PROTECTION, claim from A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) against TNT
EXPRESS WORLDWIDE SPAIN, S.L. with CIF B28905784 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that on 01/07/2020 “I access the website ***URL.1
to hire a private courier service. The reservation of the service is made from my
private email (***EMAIL.1) and payment is made with a private VISA card. The direction
collection (only specified as collection address) is that of the company SATI
ENVIROTECH SL, where I work. The company provides the service correctly. The
problem comes a week, when in the accounting department of my company
receive an invoice from TNT in the name of SATI ENVIROTECH SL, with all the data
shipment details: my personal email address and the name, address and details of
recipient's contact information (such as delivery information). The company TNT has associated for
own will a particular order to a company customer account, when the service has
been contracted at a private level and only the address of the company has been given as a point of
collection, and now, my company has two invoices (the wrong initial one and the credit correction)
with my personal data and that of the recipient and that were provided exclusively to the company.
TNT transport company…”

Together with the claim, it provides ELEVEN FILES, pdf format, extracting as more
important:

1) To identify it, with shipment number ending in 60, name "adress ..." that identifies
a document with data from the TNT delivery note number, nine figures, ending in 60, fe-
cha shipment ***DATE.1, which appears in the box: sender (sender) "
 " with the
 bill
 
 : “name and surnames of the re-
data of the company SATI ENVIRO TECH, and address
 
claimant, telephone: ***TELEPHONE.1 that coincides with that of the claimant in the claim,
and delivery address in the name of another person, with an address. “date of shipment ***FE-
CHA.1”, goods description: “***DESCRIPTION.1” In the box “delivery address” and
"Contact" .

 contact
 

 

2) To identify it, ending in 28, it is a capture of the invoice ***FACTURA.1, “invoice pa-
gada”, “invoice date” 01/22/20, NIF ES***NIF.1 (is the claimant), data of the claim-
te, delivery note number ending in 60, customer code number ***CODE.1.

3) To identify it: "shipping invoice", contains an email dated 01/30/2020, from a
email address of TNT to the claimant, in which it indicates " We enclose an invoice

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

***INVOICE.1 of the shipment ***SHIPMENT.1 with fiscal data, according to request. Please review and
issue the payment by bank transfer to the account SANTANDER ES***CUENTA.1.

4) To identify it: “shipping external invoice”, four pages, email dated 02/04/2020. In
this email, a TNT employee tells the claimant "we have located your payment with
card and canceled the invoice. Initially, SATI was billed because when entering the data of the
company, the system understood that the shipment was from the company and not personal”. It has as an-
Another email dated 02/3, from the claimant to TNT, in which she indicates "it was a shipment that
I managed it, but it was for someone else, she paid with her card” “I mean, the only thing I could
I could do is look in my mailbox for your own reservation confirmation email.
go and pay for the service. You should have this information too...” I agree to the
TNT website to contract a collection service. All the management is done associated with my
personal email account, which is the same from which I am writing to you. as lu-
collection point, I put the address of my company (SATI ENVIROTECH SL) which is a client
yours but it is not who is requesting the service.
- I make the payment and the amount is charged to the card. You come, pick up the package and deliver it.
So far so good.
- They contact me from accounting of my company to find out why they have received an invoice.
ra that does not correspond to a shipment of the company. I show them the email of the service reservation
cio, where do you see that I am the one who requests it and I am the one who makes the payment. they tell me no
there is a problem but ask you for the payment invoice to rectify that information.
- After more than a week, you send the invoice for that subscription to the company. Perfect.
- You contact me asking me to pay you back for the service...
- I inform you that it has already been paid, as it appears in the header of the invoice that you received.
you yourselves send me in that last email...and today, February 3, almost a month later
of the incidence... you ask me to send you the details of the payment made.
-That is, you, at your own risk and expense, have associated a service and an amount to a
client who has not requested anything from you. I didn't know that once you have a registered address
as a client you take the liberty of associating a service in which the address coincides with
your client, but not the payment details or the personal email requesting the service, etc.
-In fact, I would like to know what kind of treatment you make of personal data, because
now in my company they have an invoice that you have sent with personal information
sound of mine Do you work based on the provisions of the General Data Protection Law?
Why, if only the collection address coincides with your client, but it has been done since?
of a personal email, with a personal credit card and outside the company, with information
information of a private nature (such as the name and address of the recipient) you associate the
ordered to the company SATI ENVIROTECH and you send an invoice for a service that is not applicable
and with private data?

5) To identify it: “external shipping invoice”, with three pages, email, claimed, from
01/31/2020 to the claimant: "Please, to locate the payment, can you provide us with the date of
charged to your card and the exact amount?” Thank you very much in advance." It is preceded by another
claimant, on 01/30/2020, at 1:22 p.m., indicating “This invoice was paid at the time of
the online reservation of the service. Please review your payments or modify the text of the email
where payment by transfer is requested”, which in turn is preceded by the one claimed to
the claimant of 01/30/2020, 13, 18 indicating "We attach invoice ***FACTURA.1 of the en-
shipping ***SHIPPING.1 with fiscal data, according to request.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

Please review and issue the payment by bank transfer to the SANTANDER account
IS***ACCOUNT.1.”

6) To identify it: “regarding the shipment”, two pages, email dated 01/10/2020 from the re-
crying out to the claimed, states “I don't have a client account. My data is…” provides
your address data, DNI no. phone and email. It is preceded by an email from the same day, from
the claimed one that indicates "we contacted you regarding the shipment with the delivery note number
60. We have received a request from you where you indicate that you are that you
be billed for this shipment. Could you please tell us the account number with TNT or
If you do not have the following data available to us…” and ask for the mentioned data to
create that account.

7) Named: “TNT collection”. Two pages, email from ***DATE.1 in which
informs that “the collection of your shipment has been requested on ***DATE.1” and the person to whom
delivered, with the delivery address

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, on 06/02/2020, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
proceeded to transfer the claim to the respondent so that she could report on the facts, if
well elapsed time did not respond.

The claim was admitted for processing on 09/09/2020.

THIRD: On 11/3/2020, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against TNT EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
SPAIN, S.L., with CIF B28905784, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.d) of the RGPD,
as stated in article 83.5. a) of the same standard.”

"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), the
sanction that could correspond would be 10,000 euros, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction."

FOURTH: The start agreement was notified electronically. figure in the file
certificate of 11/14/2020 of Electronic Notification Services and Management
FNMT-RCM Enabled Electronics:

“That the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation (through the
General Secretariat of Digital Administration) is currently the head of the Service of
Electronic Notifications (SNE) and Authorized Electronic Address (DEH) in accordance with
Order PRE/878/2010 and Royal Decree 139/2020, of January 28. The provider of said
service since June 26, 2015 is the National Currency and Stamp Factory-Royal House
de la Moneda (FNMT-RCM), according to the current Management Commission of the Ministry of
Treasury and Public Administrations. -That through said service the
notification: Reference: ***REFERENCE.1 Acting Administration: Spanish Agency for
Data Protection (AEPD) Holder: TNT EXPRESS WORLDWIDE (SPAIN) SL -
B28905784 Subject: "Notification available in the Folder or DEH of the indicated holder" with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

next result: Date made available: 11/03/2020 20:39:23 Rejection date
automatic: 11/14/2020 00:00:00 Automatic rejection occurs, in general, after
Ten calendar days have elapsed since it was made available for access according to
paragraph 2, article 43, of the law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations. And in particular, after the deadline
established by the acting Administration in accordance with the specific legal regulations that
be applicable"

Against the initial agreement, no allegations have been received.

FIFTH: On 05/13/2021, a resolution proposal is issued for the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, a sanction is made for
TNT EXPRESS WORLDWIDE SPAIN, S.L., with NIF B28905784, for an infringement of the
article 5.1.d) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, with a fine
of 10,000 euros (ten honey euros).”

Appearing notified on 05/19/2021, no allegations are received against it.

PROVEN FACTS

1) The claimant, on ***DATE.1, contracts a private courier service so that
merchandise is delivered, for which you access the ***URL.1 website and place the order from
your private e-mail (***EMAIL.1) stating that you made the payment with a VISA card
particular. The collection address of the merchandise to be delivered (only specified
as collection address) is that of your company, SATI ENVIROTECH SL, in which you provide
services, designating a person for that purpose. The claimant states that the service is
rendered correctly.

2) A few days later, the claimant stated that the accounting department of SATI
ENVIROTECH SL, receives an invoice from TNT in the name of SATI ENVIROTECH SL, “with
all the personal data of the shipment: my personal email address and the name, address and
recipient contact details (such as delivery information”)

3) The claimed, according to documents available to the claimant, delivery notes, manifests,
invoices, has the name and surname of the claimant, her address, her email address
number and NIF, and the day and amount paid by card payment of your order.

4) The claimed party sent the claimant the invoice by e-mail at the time
***INVOICE.1, “invoice paid”, “invoice date” 01/22/20, claimant NIF), data from the
claimant, shipment number ending in 60, customer code number ***CODE.1.

5) In the emails exchanged between claimant and claimed after the
delivery of the merchandise (example 01-30-2020), despite the claimant stating that
paid for the service at the time of the online contract, and after having provided the service
delivery of the merchandise, the claimed request the claimant in an email from
01/30/2010 at 1:18 p.m., after sending the invoice in the same, that “issue the payment by
bank transfer to an account indicated”, replying to the claimant that the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

same day of the service request, ***DATE.1. In another e-mail, the respondent asks for data
on 01/31/2020 to locate the payment.

6) In an email from the respondent to the claimant dated 02/04/2020, it informs
“we have located your card payment and canceled the invoice” “initially SATI was invoiced
ENVIROTECH, because when entering the company data, the system understood that the shipment was
company and not personal. It is preceded by another email from the claimant indicating that the
delivery service made it associated with your personal email account.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in art.
47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Defines article 4.2 of the RGPD: “processing”: any operation or set of operations
made on personal data or sets of personal data, either by
automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by
transmission, broadcast or any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection,
limitation, suppression or destruction;”
The data that the claimed party had to process in its systems of the claimant, who was the one that
contracted, have been associated with the data of the company in which the claimant provided
services. According to the complainant, the headquarters of the company was pointed out to a particular person
for the delivery of the merchandise. The respondent assigns an invoice to the company, containing
claimant information. These proven facts revealed suppose the
infringement of the claimed article 5.1.d) that indicates: "the personal data will be:
“d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all reasonable steps will be taken
so that personal data that is inaccurate with respect to
with respect to the purposes for which they are processed ("accuracy").

The established obligation of the need for the personal data that is
collected and processed in any file or any processing operation, are accurate and
respond at all times to the current situation of those affected, being responsible for the
treatment who is responsible for compliance with this obligation.

Issue the invoice to the company with the data of the claimant, when she was the only one
petitioner, supposes an inaccurate treatment of the claimant's data, giving rise to
that the claimant had to worry about fixing the situation due to that lack of accuracy
with respect to the purposes for which they were to be processed.

Article 83.5 of the RGPD indicates:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

III

6/9

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the section
2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company
dam, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:
 
a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
according to articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in section 2 “i) im-
impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures
mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each particular case.”

The LOPDGDD states in its article 72:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established in
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The defendant is an entity obliged to interact electronically with the Administration
electronically (art 14.2.a) LPACAP. The start-up agreement contained the necessary elements
aries to make a pronouncement on the claim. The telematic notification produced
cide has the legal effect of having been rejected, in accordance with article 43 of the LPA-
CPAC, practice of notifications through electronic means:

"1. Notifications by electronic means will be made by appearance at the
electronic headquarters of the Administration or Acting Body, through the address
electronic enabled only or through both systems, as each Administration has
or organism.

For the purposes provided in this article, it is understood by appearance at the headquarters
electronically, access by the interested party or his duly identified representative to the
notification content.

2. The notifications by electronic means will be understood as made at the moment in which
access to its content occurs.

When notification by electronic means is mandatory, or has been
expressly chosen by the interested party, it will be understood as rejected when the
ten calendar days from the availability of the notification without accessing its
contents."

v

Regarding the amount of the sanction of administrative fine that would proceed to impose, it will have been

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

to be in accordance with the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:
“1 Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines with
in accordance with this article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
“2 The administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each individual case.
divided, as an additional or substitute for the measures contemplated in article 58, paragraphs
C 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount in
each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the nature, al-
scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as the number of
individuals affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the person responsible or in charge of the treatment to alleviate the
damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the data controller or data processor, taking into account
ta of the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under articles 25 and
32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the infringement.
tion and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular if the
The person responsible or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been previously ordered
mind against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the same matter,
compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or certification mechanisms
approved under article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
of the offence."
In relation to section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76, “Sanctions
and corrective measures”, provides:
"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also
may be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the offender's activity and the performance of personal data processing.
sound.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission of the crime.
infringement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the infraction.
tion, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution systems, in those cases in which there are con-
controversies between those and any interested party.”
Concurs article 83.2.k) of the RGPD, specified in article 76.2 b) of the LOPDGDD,
for the usual treatment of personal data of clients that is assumed to a company
dedicated to delivery of goods.
For this reason, it is considered that the penalty to be imposed is 10,000 euros.

 
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the graduation criteria

of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE a fine of 10,000 euros on TNT EXPRESS WORLDWIDE SPAIN,
S.L., with CIF B28905784, for an infringement of article 5.1.d) of the RGPD, in accordance
with article 83.5 a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to TNT EXPRESS WORLDWIDE SPAIN, S.L.

THIRD
 : Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
 
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b) of
Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of 07/29, in
relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 12/17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the
sanctioned and the number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document, in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is between the
days 1 and 15 of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the voluntary payment will be until
on the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if it is between the 16th and
last of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be until the 5th of the second month
next or immediately following business.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution

It will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties
may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day following the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

notification of this resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber
of the Contentious-administrative of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of 13
July, regulatory of the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the term of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in article
46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

