 

 
 

Case number: NAIH-353-15/2022.
History: NAIH-5637/2021.

Subject: request partially granted
tax decision, terminating
order

 
 
The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority) [...]
by the applicant (address: […]) (hereinafter: Applicant) with the Fidesz-Hungarian Civil Union
(registered office: 1062 Budapest, Lendvay utca 28.; hereinafter: Applicant) against the Applicant
data protection was initiated following your request regarding the unauthorized processing of your personal data
in an official procedure - in which procedure the Authority is the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association of Kaposvári
He involved his electoral district office (7400 Kaposvár, Szent Imre utca 14. fszt.) as a client - the following
makes decisions:
 
I. In the Authority's decision, with the Respondent's Kaposvár Electoral District Office (hereinafter:

Customer) terminates the official data protection procedure initiated against the customer.

II. In the order of the Authority, the procedure is terminated in relation to the request of the Applicant,

to instruct the Applicant to delete personal data processed without a legal basis.

III. In the Authority's decision, the Applicant's requests to instruct the Applicant
to comply with the request for access, and further establish that the Respondent has violated the
the principle of accountability according to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation,
rejects.

ARC. In the Authority's decision, it partially grants the Applicant's request and states that a

Requested

a) handled the Applicant's telephone number data illegally and without legal basis, thereby violating the
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the management of personal data and
on the free flow of such data and the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter: General Data Protection Regulation) Article 6 (1)
paragraph;

b) the Applicant has violated the right to deletion contained in Article 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation

your right;

c) the Applicant violated Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation

your right of access;

d) by not providing adequate information when contacting the Applicant by telephone a
about the most important information related to the management of your personal data and the rights of the data subject
nor did he provide adequate information about his exercise, which would facilitate it, he violated the general
Article 12 (1)-(2) and Article 13 (2) of the data protection regulation.

A. In the Authority's decision, the general conduct of the Respondent's telephone campaigns
in relation to its data management information practices, it ex officio establishes that by
that it does not provide basic general information to those concerned during phone calls a
on the management of their personal data and thus the right of the data subjects to exercise their rights as data subjects is violated,
violates Article 13 (2), Article 24 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
and paragraph (1) of Article 25.

VI. In its decision, the Authority ex officio instructs the Applicant to amend the telephone number
its information practice during the conduct of campaigns in such a way that it corresponds to it
of the General Data Protection Regulation, i.e. provide the data subjects during the telephone call
adequate information about the management of their personal data.

 



2

***

The above VI. the fulfillment of the obligation prescribed in point, the Respondent has to face this decision
must be in writing within 30 days of the expiration of the legal remedy deadline - the supporting evidence
along with its submission - certify to the Authority.

No procedural costs were incurred in the procedure.

There is no place for an administrative appeal against this decision, but it is subject to notification
Within 30 days with a letter of claim addressed to the Capital Court in a public administrative case
can be attacked. The claim must be submitted to the Authority, electronically1, which is the case
forwards it to the court together with its documents. The request to hold the hearing must be indicated in the statement of claim
must For those who do not benefit from the full personal tax exemption, the administrative court fee
HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record the levy. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.

This decision of the Authority on the website of the Authority by indicating the identification data of the Applicant
publishes it.

 

I N D O C O L A S

I. Procedure of the procedure

The Applicant submitted an application to the Authority via e-paper on June 17, 2021.

The request did not comply with the CL of 2016 on the general administrative order. law (a
hereinafter: Ákr.) of § 36. (1) and on the right to informational self-determination and
CXII of 2011 on freedom of information. Act (hereinafter: Infotv.) Section 60 (5)
of the requirements set forth in paragraph 1, therefore, the Authority issued the Applicant NAIH-5637-2/2021.
in order no.

The Applicant noted the shortcomings of the application in his submission sent via e-paper on June 24, 2021
replaced it. In view of the fact that the Applicant's request was completed by fulfilling the deficiency, that is
official data protection procedure started on June 25, 2021.

The Authority NAIH-5637-5/2021 dated June 30, 2021. notified in order no
The applicant requested information about the initiation of the procedure and in order to clarify the facts
about the conditions of data management. The Respondent arrived at the Authority's invitation on July 27, 2021
answered in his letter.

The Authority dated August 6, 2021, NAIH-5637-7/2021. in order no. the facts are further
in order to clarify it, he repeatedly contacted the Respondent, to which request the
The applicant - after a deadline extension - in his letter received on September 16, 2021
answered.

The Authority - bearing in mind that it considered it necessary to further clarify the facts -
repeatedly addressed questions to the Applicant in NAIH-5637 dated September 30, 2021-
11/2021. in order no. 2021 for the questions contained in the Authority's order.
replied in a letter received on October 25.

The Applicant provided additional information in the information letter sent via e-paper on October 15, 2021
given in relation to the facts. The Authority NAIH-5637-13/2021 dated October 25, 2021.
in his order no. he requested additional information from the Applicant, which information a
The Authority released the applicant's reply sent via e-paper on October 25, 2021
at your disposal.

The Authority NAIH-5637-16/2021 dated November 24, 2021. customer status in order no
provided to the Customer, at the same time he requested information in order to clarify the facts.

1 The NAIH_K01 form is used to initiate the administrative lawsuit: NAIH_K01 form (16.09.2019) The form is the general
can be filled out using a form-filling program (ÁNYK program). https://www.naih.hu/kozig-hatarozat-birosagi-felulvizsgalata

 

 



3

In view of the fact that the Authority's order was returned in 2021 with the indication "address cannot be identified".
on November 30, therefore the Authority repeatedly sent the order to another Customer
availability. In relation to the questions contained in the inquiry of the Authority, the Respondent
replied in his letter received on January 7, 2022.

The Authority notified the Applicant of the completion of the evidence procedure in NAIH-353-3/2022. in order no.
the Application is NAIH-353-2/2022. notified and called both the Applicant,
both the Applicants for the opportunity to exercise their right to inspect documents and make statements.

The Respondent, in its letter dated February 2, 2022, to the provisions of the Authority's order
he stated.

The Applicant declared to the Authority's order that he wishes to exercise his right to inspect documents and requests
copies of documents sent not from the Applicant or to the Applicant
sending. The Authority grants the Applicant's right to inspect documents in accordance with NAIH-353-6/2022. no
agreed in its ruling and sent the requested copies of documents to the Applicant by post. THE
Applicant regarding the documents sent in his letter dated February 15, 2022
he stated.

In view of the fact that the Applicant, in his response letter dated February 15, 2022, the data protection
amended its request for official procedure, the Authority has amended this Request under NAIH-353-8/2022.
notified in its order no
in order to clarify the facts, invited the Applicant to make a statement.

Given that the Respondent did not respond to the Authority's inquiry at all, the Authority
NAIH-353-9/2022. in order no. to pay the Petitioner HUF 300,000 procedural fine
he obliged and in order to clarify the facts, he repeatedly called the person in his inquiry
to make statements related to issues.

The Respondent fulfilled its obligation to pay the fine within the deadline and on May 25, 2022
AVDH stated in its certified submission that it was included in the request of the Authority
regarding questions.

The Authority NAIH-353-12/2022. order no. in order to fully clarify the facts of the
He invited the applicant to make a statement. The Respondent with the questions contained in the order of the Authority
regarding this, he made a statement in his certified submission from AVDH on July 18, 2022.

 

II. Clarification of the facts

II.1. In his application, the Applicant stated that on June 17, 2021 at 2:19 p.m. a phone call
received from the phone number +36 82 951 825 to the mobile phone number of […]. The phone number is a
The telephone number of the applicant's office in Kaposvár is listed in the public telephone directory.

In his report, he stated that during the call they inquired about the vaccination against Covid
whether you received it, and they asked you to subscribe to their newsletter. However, the clerk did not know
to say how the Applicant's phone number came into his possession, and he was unable to delete it either.
According to the Applicant's point of view, it was presumably recorded in relation to the Covid vaccination
information.

In his notification, the Applicant also submitted that he never gave his consent to his personal data -
in this case, a mobile phone number - for marketing purposes and against Covid
to store the vaccination.

The Applicant asked the Authority to instruct the Applicant to remove the personal data processed without a legal basis
to delete your data, establish the illegality of the information provided at the data subject's request, and
instruct the Requested to comply with the Requester's access request.

II.2. The Respondent informed the Authority in its response letter received on July 27, 2021
the Authority that the personal data of the persons who
they previously gave their consent for the Respondent to maintain contact with them,

 



4

provide them with information on matters considered important by the party, for the purpose of asking for opinions
you can find them.

At the time of the Authority's inquiry, the Applicant's personal data are not included in the
Requested in his sympathizer register. According to his statement, the reason for this is presumably that a
During the conversation with the employee who called him, the applicant requested the deletion of his personal data,
which request must be forwarded to the Respondent's employees and the cancellation request must be fulfilled.

The Respondent submitted that their colleagues who initiated the phone call for the necessary data
they can access it from the sympathizer register, the legal basis of the data management, and the data management
they do not have data on its duration. If the Applicant has asked a question about this
up, so their colleague could not provide information during the telephone conversation. Since the
they cannot reconstruct the phone call and its content, so - according to his statement - the Respondent
cannot confirm whether the Applicant has submitted another request in addition to the cancellation request to the
To the applicant.

During the national campaigns, the data of the people living in the given district are selected by the
from the sympathizer register, and it is handed over to the regional organizational unit. The local organizational
employees of the unit cannot delete data from the register, they only know the fact of data deletion
to be forwarded to the central organizational unit of the Applicant, which performs the deletion.

The Applicant does not manage the vaccination data of its sympathizers, that is the purpose of the campaign
it was a demonstration of the importance of vaccination.

During the campaign, the people participating in it were instructed to a
contact the sympathizers on the telephone numbers available to them and talk to them
about the importance of vaccination, inform the affected persons that they were visited because
have previously given their consent to the processing of their data for contact purposes, if
there has been some change in the data of the sympathizers, so this should be forwarded to the Applicant
of its central organizational unit, which passes the change/deletion through the register, and also
if the register contains only the phone number of the person concerned, ask for it
their consent to the management of their electronic contact information. If the data subject is electronic
provide your contact information, it must be forwarded to the central organizational unit of the Applicant.

II.3. In the letter received by the Authority on September 16, 2021, the Applicant also stated that
if the data subject requests the deletion of his personal data, then to the center of the Requested
the employee receiving the inquiry will forward it to the competent employee, and they will take care of the deletion,
at the same time, the affected persons are informed of the deletion. After that, to the person concerned
related data is no longer managed by the Respondent.

Requests sent to adatvedelem@fidesz.hu will be sent directly to the relevant employee.

The employees who initiate the phone calls are on the phone related to the COVID vaccination
during the campaign, the name and telephone number of the person concerned were obtained, based on which it was possible to
making a phone call. If the register did not contain the e-mail address of the person concerned, so
this was brought to the attention of the person concerned, or for some previously used, but presumably for the reason of the service provider
ceases or has ceased - e.g. In the case of UPC and chello e-mail addresses, the relevant ones were transferred
e-mail addresses previously provided by, by checking their topicality and accuracy,
ask about it.

The COVID vaccination campaign ran from February 23, 2021 to July 1, 2021. On this
period, employees working in different areas had to handle the calls.

Individual data selected from the sympathizer database is transmitted via an internal network, this is responsible
and mostly data security requirements.

In response to the Authority's question about how the Respondent complied with the general data protection regulation
of his obligation to provide information contained in paragraph (3) of Article 12, the Respondent stated that
that if the person concerned requested the deletion of their data during the telephone conversation, then on this
request was recorded by their colleague, which was indicated to the person concerned together with the deletion of the data

 



5

it will happen. When the data is deleted, it is sent to the e-mail address provided by the data subject
sending the information, or if the person concerned only had a telephone number,
the information must be provided through it. After that, it is personal in relation to the data subject
data is not processed by the Respondent, for this reason a copy of the information letter sent to the person concerned will be sent afterwards
cannot send it to the Authority.

In connection with the request of the Authority, the Respondent to attach the
To conduct a campaign related to COVID vaccination, the Applicant is from the Kaposvár area
a list selected from the sympathizer database for his organization, he submitted that the COVID
vaccination campaign ended in July. According to his statement, even before the start of the campaign - a
Taking into account the Authority's guidelines, the Respondent took particular account of it
the enforcement of data protection rules, and that in connection with the sympathizer register
it is also necessary to update and correct data. Data protection determined by the Authority
based on the requirement - that after the data update, since there is no way to manage them
it has no legal basis, previously inaccurate data can no longer be processed - territorial selections
treatment had to be terminated by the end of May at the latest, as requested by the Authority
they cannot perform data transfer.

II.4. The Respondent also made his statement in his reply letter received on October 25, 2021 by
added that according to their practice based on the Authority's previous guidelines
if the data subject requests the deletion of his personal data, all his personal data must be deleted,
and there is no longer any data management purpose that can justify their management. Therefore
the Respondent does not have a "negative database" containing the data of the persons requesting their deletion
I would handle it.

The Respondent also submitted that the phone calls of their colleagues to those persons
initiated by those who previously consented to the processing of their personal data. The consent is
affected parties can do so voluntarily and on their own initiative, that is, before providing the data
data protection information will be provided to those concerned, as well as to the Applicant about the sympathizer's register
posted information on its website.

+36 82 474 076 are continuously received,

II.5. According to the Applicant's statement in his submission sent on October 15, 2021, a
phone calls
and +36 82 474 077
of phone numbers for the mobile phone. The telephone numbers of the Kaposvár office of the Applicant
listed as their telephone numbers in the public telephone directory (as FIDESZ Magyar Polgár
Association, 7400 Kaposvár, Szent Imre utca 14. FS). The Requester is the call log of the occurrence of the call
with screen saver
last call +36 82 474 076
from phone number received on October 15, 2021 at 5:53 p.m.

supported that the

II.6. In view of this, the Authority - since the case directly affects its rights and legitimate interests - in 2021.
dated 24 November NAIH-5637-16/2021. Fidesz granted customer legal status in its order no.
For the Kaposvár Constituency Office of the Hungarian Civic Association, and also called the Client
to cooperate in revealing the data management conditions.

A response letter to the Authority's inquiry was received from the Application on January 7, 2022. His statement
according to the data processing of the Requested, the Requested is considered the data manager, the individual
local offices, constituencies are not independent data controllers. Statements that can be made on behalf of the party
its rules are determined by the Articles of Association of the Respondent, therefore the response to the Authority's inquiry is a
It is given by the applicant's central organization.

According to its statement, the Respondent reviewed its data management and found that a
in the investigated case, the managed data were previously searched by the Applicant's name. The Applicant
however, the register did not contain any personal data related to his name. By the Applicant
however, the indicated telephone number is managed as assigned to another person in the register. Since the
phone number has been managed in the register for a long time, it is possible that the owner has changed in the meantime
happened, but it is also possible that the person concerned previously entered the wrong phone number, or
their colleague recorded it inaccurately. However, he deleted the objected phone number from the register
the Applicant.

 



6

The Respondent also informed the Authority that each of its local offices does not lead
a register of local sympathizers of the Applicant, a register containing the data of these persons a
It is managed by the applicant's central organizational unit and provides data from it for each campaign
for local offices.

The subscriber of the telephone numbers +36 82 951 825, +36 82 474 076 and +36 82 474 077 is
Applicant's office in Kaposvár.

II.7. The Applicant - after being informed by the Authority about the completion of the evidentiary procedure - a
In his letter sent to the authority on February 4, 2022, he stated the following:

II.7.1. According to his point of view, the fact that the Applicant requested information was not proven
to the Respondent, because the Applicant's statement is not evidence in the relevant case. Therefore
if the Authority considers it relevant to the assessment of the case that the Applicant
what questions he formulated orally, the Respondent asks the Authority to
conduct a relevant evidentiary procedure, especially considering that the Applicant is him
also misinterpreted the information provided by their colleague who contacted them by phone, so it can also be reasonably assumed that
that it was not only in this matter that he remembered inaccurately and drew an inaccurate conclusion.

In its response letter, the Respondent confirmed its statement that the Applicant's phone number
it was handled in connection with another person, and the source of the error is this third person's inaccuracy
entering data, changing the user of the phone number in the meantime, or recording inaccurate data.
According to the Respondent's statement, after establishing the need for correction a
terminated the management of the objected telephone number.

III.7.2. The Applicant submits his application - after the Authority has sent him the requested copies of documents - to
modified it as follows, and in connection with it, distributed the following motion for proof
live:

or not

the)
The Applicant proposed that it should be deleted and forgotten
right violated,
was able to validate in connection with the case. Related to this
in his statement, he confirmed his earlier claim that the call was unsolicited from the Petitioner
requested information about how the Respondent obtained his personal data.
The person who initiated the call was unable to provide an answer to his question, and informed him that
that you cannot delete your data. He also couldn't answer the question of what it was like
form, the Applicant can do this.

According to the Applicant's statement, about the data management information available on the Applicant's website
he did not receive information, nor was he informed that at adatvedelem@fidesz.hu
you can request the deletion of your personal data.

According to the Applicant's point of view, it was proven in the case that the cancellation during the phone call
in addition to his request, he also turned to the Respondent with a request for information. The Respondent did not provide any information
about how he complied with the requirements of Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
obligation to provide information. According to his position, the Respondent misled the Authority in 2021.
in a letter dated July 21 with the information that "The data of the named person are yours
at the time of your inquiry, they are not included in the FIDESZ sympathizers register",
because if this information had been true, or if the case had been thoroughly investigated by the Respondent,
it could not have happened that the Applicant receives calls from the Applicant again.

b)
The Applicant proposed a finding that the Respondent violated the
the principle of accountability contained in Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation. According to his statement,
The Respondent did not comply with the Authority's request to certify the Applicant's cancellation
request, and the Respondent did not comply with the Authority's request
of his request to verify in a verifiable manner that he does not process the Applicant's personal data.

c)
The Applicant also requested a finding that the transparent was damaged
your right to information. According to his statement, those concerned are not informed about the
during phone calls, that the local offices and constituencies are not independent data controllers.

 



7

In addition to the above, according to the Applicant's point of view, the Respondent did not provide information that
how can it happen that you can manage a phone number assigned to several different people
the database, and the fact of it was not proven by the Respondent - the Applicant's position
according to - that their database is really capable of this. The Applicant provided information that a
"During their internal audit, they found that the phone number was assigned to another person."
In connection with this, the Applicant presented the following motion for proof: he requests the Authority,
to oblige the Applicant by this fact - i.e. to transfer the Applicant's phone number to another person
was handled as intended - to prove that, according to the Applicant's point of view, it is possible to a
The authority requests the declaration of consent that contains the wrongly entered telephone number.

II.8. The Authority notified the Applicant of the provisions of the previous point and, in view of that, requested the
It is requested that by sending a copy of the supporting statement of consent
proves his claim that the Applicant's phone number was given as his phone number by another person.
The Authority requested that the Applicant prove individually by sending screenshots
what search results you get in the database by searching for your name or phone number, and also
state whether you dispute what was presented in the Applicant's amended application.

The Respondent stated the following in relation to the Authority's questions:

the)
According to the practice of the Respondent, when they notice that the person in their records
some data is incorrect or inaccurate, or the data subject may not have provided it, the processing of the data
will be terminated. For this reason, the scope of data requested by the Authority is no longer in the Data Management of the Requested and
because of this, they cannot hand it over.

b)
According to the Respondent's point of view, the general data protection regulation would not comply
provisions, if you are all employees and co-workers of the data controller
all data subjects would be granted automatic access to the organizational unit involved in data processing
for data. It also follows from the principle of purpose-bound data management that the data controller
also within your organization, individual persons should only have access to the data that
necessary for the performance of their duties.

In the present case, the person who initiated the call, the employee, had the task of being the person concerned
contact the person and draw attention to the importance of the COVID vaccination. For this task
granted access to personal data. For this reason, he is an employee of the Respondent
if he had received a question about the source from which the Respondent handles the called person
personal data, such as the specific consent statement, as well as the relevant information
he did not have access to the data necessary for the full fulfillment of his right to request, thus
he was unable to provide information either, that is the task of another organizational unit of the Respondent.

According to his opinion, the telephone calls were not required to provide such information
neither are the relevant provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation
they refer to a requirement when referring to a one-month response deadline, rather than a response
they say In this regard, the Respondent referred to the EDPB on the right of access
to the provisions of the draft guidelines, according to which, during an inquiry, the data subject is
the data controller is not obliged to provide the data subject's request for information immediately or verbally. To this
according to the draft guidelines, the Applicant must provide an appropriate communication path
has done so, and is received by those concerned both by e-mail, by traditional mail, and by other means
requests of this kind and the answer to them in the requested form. However, the Applicant is his own
according to him, he did not take advantage of these opportunities.

no information

The Applicant's statement that data management is available on the Applicant's website
c)
about information
was informed that it was
You can request the deletion of your personal data at adatvedelem@fidesz.hu, as the Requested Person
stated that their colleagues had to provide the missing information in case of a question,
and if they requested the deletion of their personal data, it was recorded. Given that the
the content of the phone call cannot be reproduced, the content of the Applicant's statement can be checked a
The respondent does not know, nor does he dispute it.

and about it

received

neither

 



8

d)
The Respondent in relation to the Applicant's statement that “in the case
it was proved that during the phone call, in addition to the request for deletion, he also requested information
To the Respondent.", and "The Respondent did not provide information on how it complied
of the obligation to provide information arising from Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation."
stated that the Applicant's statement is not evidence in itself, the Applicant is different
did not support it with evidence, and the Respondent disputes the claims made by the Applicant.

The Respondent also confirmed the contents of his previous letters, according to which if
data subject requests the deletion of his personal data, after that no personal data related to him
data cannot be handled. According to the Respondent's statement, the telephone number of the person concerned is another personal one
identified as data in your records. Thus, if the telephone number of the person concerned is the Respondent
even when the original call was made to him, it was treated as another person's personal data - because it is different
person gave it as his own - for this reason, the Respondent was not aware of the request of the person concerned
fulfill, as it was not treated as his personal data. Given that it is about data management
there is a word that has already ceased, its content, details and the information given in connection with it, that
does not fulfill the obligations arising from Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
to reproduce for the Requested.

e)
According to the Applicant's position, the Respondent misled the Authority on July 21, 2021.
in a letter dated
at the time of your inquiry, they are not included in the FIDESZ sympathizers register",
because if this information had been true, or if the case had been thoroughly investigated by the Respondent,
it could not have happened that the Applicant receives calls from the Applicant again.

In relation to the above statement of the Applicant, the Respondent stated that the Applicant
his name was not in the register at the time of giving the answer. It often happens
that another person provides an inaccurate telephone number or e-mail as one of their contact details
address or residential address. The Respondent found this by checking his records, and is therefore not liable
and the reality of the Applicant's claim that the Respondent had misled the Authority.

f)
In relation to the Applicant's motion that the Authority establish that a
The respondent violated the accountability contained in Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation
principle, as the Respondent did not comply with the Authority's requests to verify that the Applicant
request for deletion, and also confirms that the Applicant's personal data
does not handle, the Respondent again highlighted the already described procedure for dealing with the cancellation request
practice, as a result of which the Applicant does not manage personal data,
or cannot handle. The Respondent also attached the screenshots that a
They show the result of a search for the applicant's name or phone number.

d)
In relation to the Applicant's motion that the Authority establish that the
The applicant's right to transparent information, as those concerned were not informed about the
during telephone calls, that the local offices and constituencies are not independent data controllers, a
The Respondent stated that the objection formulated by the Applicant was not clear,
and it is not clear what he considers illegal. Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation
determines what information is required to be provided to the data subject by data processing
at the beginning, during data management on this
information on the Applicant's website as well
made it public, and the possibility was open to the person concerned that the Respondent did so
request information about the management of your personal data through the established communication channels. THE
According to the respondent's point of view, the organizational structure of the data controller is not
falls within the scope of the data controller's obligation to provide information according to Article 13, as this is the data subject's rights
not relevant from the point of view of its practice. The phone call was made on behalf of the Respondent
complicating colleagues, so the Applicant knew which party initiated the call, that is
that the Respondent is the data controller, thereby knowing from whom he can request information about his personal data
treatment, which he did not do.

h)
Regarding the Applicant's position that the Respondent did not give
information about how it can happen that a phone number is assigned to several different people

 



9

the database can handle it as ordered, and the Respondent did not prove the fact of this either - a
According to the Applicant's point of view - that their database is really capable of this, the Respondent so
stated that, in his opinion, these are objections that are not related to the investigation
for data management, the Authority did not contact the Requester with a question of this nature and subject, so a
The respondent did not even have to give an answer in such a matter.

III.9. In its response letter sent to the Authority on July 18, 2022, the Applicant stated the following
stated:

the)
In response to the Authority's question as to what the Respondent meant by consent
affected voluntarily and can do so "initiatively", the Respondent stated that
that the term "initiating form" means the content that the person concerned himself
decides whether he wants to deal with politics or the public affairs of the country, and if so, what kind of views
according to which party you want to identify with the values represented, or you can decide to be with this party
whether you want to keep in touch or not. The history of recording the data in the database
so it is always a decision, on the part of the person concerned, that he wants to deal with public affairs on the one hand,
on the other hand, you would like to receive information and maintain contact with the Respondent
regarding his position.

b)
At the Authority's request that the supporting paper consent statement(s)
by sending a copy, you confirm your claim that the […] phone number was given by another person
and as his own telephone number, as well as for the management of other personal data of this person
attached his statement of consent, the Respondent stated that the data subject is personal
your data is no longer managed by the Respondent, so it can no longer provide information that it was before
which person provided it as their own phone number. The Applicant to prove that the [...]
no phone number is currently assigned to any person in its records, added one
screenshot showing the result of the […] phone number search.

c)
According to the Respondent's statement, it is the mailbox for data subject requests
adatvedelem@fidesz.hu and leiratkozas@fidesz.hu. The e-mail addresses are provided by the Applicant
it is managed by its data protection officer, or during his absence by the employee appointed by him. In case,
if the person concerned were to contact another organizational unit of the Respondent with his request, that request
it must be forwarded to adatvedelem@fidesz.hu. If to the data protection officer
the question related to data management would be received in a different form by the person concerned or by another person, such as
it will be recorded and managed by the data protection officer until it is answered.

The data protection officer of the Respondent reviews the incoming inquiries and, if necessary,
checks their content or transfers them in the register. The person concerned about the measures taken
the person is informed by the data protection officer. In the event of a deletion request, information to the data subject
after that, all your personal data will be deleted, which will be carried out by the data protection officer.

 
III. Legal provisions applicable in the case

Based on Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation
must be used to manage personal data in whole or in part in an automated manner,
as well as for non-automated processing of personal data that
are part of a registration system or which become part of a registration system
they want to do.

Article 4, point 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation: "data management": you are on personal data
any operation performed on data files in an automated or non-automated manner or
set of operations, such as collection, recording, organization, segmentation, storage, transformation or
change, query, insight, use, communication, transmission, distribution or otherwise
by way of making it available, coordination or connection, restriction, deletion,
or destruction;

Article 4, point 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation: "data controller": the natural or legal person,
public authority, agency or any other body responsible for the management of personal data

 



10

determines its goals and means independently or together with others; if the purposes of data management and
its means are determined by EU or member state law, the data controller or the data controller
EU or Member State law may also determine special aspects for its designation;

Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: (1) The processing of personal data is exclusive
it is legal if and to the extent that at least one of the following is fulfilled:
a) the data subject has given his consent to the processing of his personal data for one or more specific purposes
for its treatment;
b) data management is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the data subject is one of the parties, or
to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
required;
c) data management is necessary to fulfill the legal obligation of the data controller;
d) the data processing is for the vital interests of the data subject or another natural person
necessary for its protection;
e) the data management is in the public interest or for the exercise of public authority delegated to the data controller
necessary for the execution of the task carried out in the context of;
f) data management to enforce the legitimate interests of the data controller or a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over these interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms that require the protection of personal data,
especially if a child is involved.
Point f) of the first subparagraph cannot be applied by public authorities in the performance of their duties
for data management.

General Data Protection Regulation Article 11 (1) If the purposes for which the data controller is personal
processes data, is not or is no longer necessary for the data subject by the data controller
identification, the data controller is not obliged to retain or obtain additional information
process in order to identify the data subject solely to comply with e
regulation.

(2) If, in the cases mentioned in paragraph (1) of this article, the data controller can prove that there is no
in a position to identify the data subject, if possible, in an appropriate manner
informs. In such cases, the 15-20. article does not apply, unless the data subject for the purpose of
to exercise his rights according to the mentioned articles, the supplement enabling his identification
provides information.

Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The data controller shall take appropriate measures
in order to comply with the provisions of 13. and a
All information mentioned in Article 14 and Articles 15-22. and each according to Article 34
information
form, clearly and
provide any information addressed to children in an understandable way
case. The information in writing or in another way - including, where appropriate, the electronic way
must also be specified. Verbal information can also be given at the request of the data subject, provided that it is done in another way
the identity of the person concerned was verified.

concise, transparent, understandable and easily accessible

(2) The data controller facilitates the relevant 15-22. the exercise of his rights according to art. Article 11 (2)
in the cases referred to in paragraph 15-22, the data controller is the person concerned. to exercise his rights according to art
may not refuse to fulfill your request, unless you prove that the person concerned is not
able to identify.

Article 13 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: (2) The information referred to in paragraph (1).
in addition to the controller at the time of obtaining the personal data, in order to
ensure fair and transparent data management, the data subject is the following supplement
informs about information:
a) on the period of storage of personal data, or if this is not possible, this period
aspects of its definition;

 



11

b) the data subject's right to request from the data controller personal data relating to him/her
access, their correction, deletion or restriction of processing, and may object to such
against the processing of personal data, as well as the data subject's right to data portability;
c) based on point a) of Article 6 (1) or point a) of Article 9 (2)
in the case of data management, the right to withdraw consent at any time, which
it does not affect the legality of data processing carried out on the basis of consent before the withdrawal;
d) on the right to submit a complaint to the supervisory authority;
e) that the provision of personal data is a legal or contractual obligation
is a basis or a prerequisite for concluding a contract, and whether the person concerned is obliged to the personal
to provide data, and what possible consequences the provision of data may entail
failure to do so;
f) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in paragraphs (1) and (4) of Article 22, including
also profiling, and at least in these cases to the applied logic and that
comprehensible information regarding the significance of such data management and the data subject
looking at the expected consequences.

Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The data subject has the right to request from the data controller
receive feedback on whether your personal data is being processed and
if such data processing is in progress, you are entitled to the personal data and the following
get access to information:
a) the purposes of data management;
b) categories of personal data concerned;
c) recipients or categories of recipients with whom or with which the personal data
communicated or will be communicated, including in particular to recipients in third countries, or
international organizations;
d) where appropriate, the planned period of storage of personal data, or if this is not possible,
criteria for determining this period;
e) the data subject's right to request personal data relating to him from the data controller
rectification, deletion or restriction of processing and may object to such personal data
against treatment;
f) the right to submit a complaint addressed to a supervisory authority;
g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available information about their source;
h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in paragraphs (1) and (4) of Article 22, including
also profiling, as well as, at least in these cases, the applied logic and that
understandable information about the significance of such data management and what it is like for the data subject
has expected consequences.

Article 17 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The data subject has the right to, at his request,
data controller to delete the personal data concerning him without undue delay, the data controller
and is obliged to provide the personal data concerning the data subject without undue delay
delete if any of the following reasons apply:
a) the personal data are no longer needed for the purpose for which they were collected or otherwise
treated in a manner;
b) the data subject withdraws it pursuant to point a) of Article 6 (1) or point a) of Article 9 (2)
point, the consent that forms the basis of the data management, and the data management has nothing else
its legal basis;
c) the data subject objects to the data processing based on Article 21(1) and there is no priority
enjoying a legitimate reason for data processing, or the data subject objects on the basis of Article 21 (2)
against data management;
d) personal data were handled unlawfully;
e) the personal data is legal as prescribed by EU or member state law applicable to the data controller
must be deleted to fulfill an obligation;
f) to collect personal data with the information society referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 8
took place in connection with the offering of related services.

 



12

Article 24 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The data controller is the nature of the data management,
its scope, circumstances and purposes, as well as the rights and freedoms of natural persons
taking into account the reported risk of varying probability and severity, appropriate technical and
implements organizational measures to ensure and prove that the personal
data is handled in accordance with this regulation. These measures are taken by the data controller
review and update if necessary.

Article 25 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The data controller is science and technology
its status and implementation costs, as well as the nature, scope, circumstances and purposes of data management,
and reported on the rights and freedoms of natural persons, variable probability and
taking serious risk into account both when determining the method of data management and
and appropriate technical and organizational measures during data management - for example
aliasing - is performed, the purpose of which is, on the one hand, data protection principles, such as saving data
effective implementation, on the other hand, to meet the requirements contained in this regulation and
the inclusion of guarantees necessary to protect the rights of data subjects in the data management process.

Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: Other administrative or judicial
without prejudice to legal remedies, all parties concerned are entitled to file a complaint with a supervisory authority
authority - in particular your usual place of residence, place of work or suspected infringement
in the Member State where it is located - if, according to the judgment of the data subject, the personal data relating to him
handling violates this regulation.

Recital (64) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The data controller is reasonable
takes measures to establish the identity of the data subject requesting access,
especially in relation to online services and online identifiers. The data manager
may not retain personal data solely for the purpose of responding to possible requests
can answer.

Recital (74) of the General Data Protection Regulation: The controller of personal data
with regard to any type of processing carried out by or on behalf of the data controller
its powers and responsibilities must be regulated. In particular, the data controller must be obliged to
implement appropriate and effective measures and to be able to demonstrate that
the data management activities comply with this regulation and the measures applied
its efficiency is also at the level required by this regulation. These measures are based on the nature of data management,
its scope, circumstances and objectives, as well as a
rights and
it must be made taking into account the risk to your freedoms.

natural persons

Infotv. According to Section 2 (2), the general data protection regulation is indicated there
shall be applied with additions contained in provisions.

Infotv. According to Section 60 (1), enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
in order to do so, the Authority will initiate a data protection official procedure at the request of the data subject.

Infotv. Pursuant to § 60, paragraph (2), for the initiation of official data protection proceedings
request in Article 77(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation and Article 22(b)
can be submitted in specific cases.

The Akr. According to paragraph (3) of § 6, the good faith of the client and other participants in the procedure is
must be assumed in the procedure. The authority bears the burden of proving bad faith.

The Akr. According to § 64, paragraph (1), if it is not excluded by law, the customer can replace it with his statement
the missing evidence, if it is not possible to obtain it.

5/2020 Guidelines on consent according to Regulation (EU) 2016/679: (107) The data controller must
to prove that he obtained valid consent from the data subject. The General Data Protection Regulation
does not specify exactly how this should be done. However, the data controller must be able to
to prove that the data subject has given his consent in a given case. As long as it is
data management activity takes place, the obligation to prove consent exists. The
proof of consent after termination of data processing activity - Article 17 (3)
in accordance with points b) and e) of paragraph - it cannot be kept longer than the legal

 



13

to comply with an obligation or to submit or enforce legal claims, or
is strictly necessary for its protection.

The Akr. According to § 47, subsection (1), point c), the authority terminates the procedure if the procedure
has become redundant.

Infotv. According to paragraph (2) of § 61, the Authority may order in its decision - the data controller, respectively
disclosure by publishing the identification data of the data processor, if a
decision affects a wide range of persons, it is a body performing a public task
with his activity
brought in connection, or the gravity of the infringement justifies disclosure.

 

ARC. Decision

IV.1. The person of the data controller

According to Article 4, Point 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, data management of personal data
any operation or set of operations performed, such as collection, recording, organization, segmentation,
storage, use. According to point 7 of the same article, the data controller is the one who fulfills the purposes of the data management
and defines its means in merit.

The Authority is responsible for certain data protection related to the data management of political parties and organizations
in Part I of its recommendation (19 February 2021) on its requirements, it also highlighted that the data controller
the central element of its definition is the fact of making substantive decisions regarding data management,
thus, in particular, determining the purpose of data management; data to be processed that are suitable for the purpose
defining its scope; selection of the legal basis for data management; on the duration of data management
decision; establishing the method of data management; implementation of data management; the personal
access to data; decision on data transmission; the use of personal data is different
for data management purposes, during other activities; ensuring and enforcing stakeholder rights;
decision to use a data processor; to take basic data security measures
relevant decision.

According to the Authority's point of view, all organizations, parties and natural persons that are given
has made a decision regarding the purposes of data management and its means, to the data controller
to be considered.

Parties/political organizations on their election-related data management
beyond other
during their data management, it is also essential to clarify and make it clear that on this
in relation to their activities, who can be considered a data controller, and who is responsible for the given data management
with responsibility and where the affected parties can turn to in connection with the exercise of their rights
with their requests. In the course of these data managements, the data controller can be either the member of Parliament or the local
a local government representative, and also a data controller can be the party's central or regional organization
organization, as well as a member or activist of the party, depending on the situation
decision regarding data management to whom or which organization can be linked to data management
issued a relevant instruction.

According to the Applicant's statement, in the indicated period - i.e. the Applicant's data protection authority
when the phone call objected to in the application initiating the procedure is made - the COVID
telephone campaign took place, during which the sympathizer
vaccination related
registered persons were called
by the Respondent's employees. Come on
in conducting telephone calls, the regional/local bodies and employees of the Applicant - present
in this case, the Client - cooperated, the campaign was nationwide, and the Respondent
party directorate decided. According to the Respondent's statement, the tasks for its regional offices
definition,
to happen a
call initiation took place at the head office of the Respondent. The individual national campaigns
from the sympathizer register - which register is centrally organized by the Applicant
managed by his unit - they sort out the personal data of the people living in each district and send it
and the individual territorial organizational units through the internal network of the Respondent - in this case
for the Kaposvár organization of the Applicant. Fulfillment of stakeholder requests is the responsibility of the Respondent

thus the decision for which persons

 



14

according to his statement, it also happens at the central level, because the regional bodies have the
other than access to data selected for them from the sympathizer register
their entitlement - so e.g. data modification, data clarification, deletion - none, all of this nature
requests are forwarded by the regional bodies to the central organizational unit, where in the requests
reservations are transferred to the sympathizer register.

Based on the Authority's determination, on the Applicant's website (https://fidesz.hu/documents/Fidesz-
Magyar-Polgari-Szovetseg-Alapszabalya.pdf) according to its Articles of Association, the Requested controller
and its decision-making body is the National Board, which is Article 60 (1) point e) of the Articles of Association
according to "organizes national actions, appointing the person responsible for them". The Statute is the Applicant
he does not name the party directorate body or organizational unit mentioned in his statements at all.

Based on this, the Authority is implemented in connection with the conduct of the telephone campaign
with regard to data management, the National Board of the Respondent was considered the general one
to the decision-making body of the data controller based on Article 4, point 7 of the data protection decree.

In view of this, the Authority terminated the official data protection procedure against the Customer.

At the same time, the Authority recommends that – this case and the Authority dated February 19, 2021, the
about certain data protection requirements related to the data management of political parties and organizations
based on his recommendation - the Applicant should supplement his information and thereby make it clear,
that only the central body of the Requested Party (National Bureau) is the data controller, the regional bodies
no.

 

IV.2. Lawfulness of data management

IV.2.1. According to the Applicant's statement, during the call received from the Applicant on June 17, 2021, the
the caller inquired whether he had received the vaccination against COVID, and requested that the
Applicants should subscribe to the newsletter. The Applicant - according to his statement - during the call
requested information on how the Respondent obtained his personal data, which
however, the caller could not answer his question, and the Applicant could not delete it personally
your data.

According to the Applicant's statement, from the sympathizer register during national campaigns
the data of the people living in the given district are selected and handed over to the regional organizational unit
for. In the sympathizer register, the personal data of persons who previously
they gave their consent for the Respondent to maintain contact with them, for their part by him
provide information on matters considered important, you can contact them for the purpose of requesting an opinion.

The Applicant does not manage the vaccination-related data of its sympathizers, that is the purpose of the campaign
it was a demonstration of the importance of vaccination.

The regional offices participated in the implementation of the telephone campaign of the COVID vaccination. The Applicant
according to his statement, the employees who initiated the phone call had access to the necessary data
added from the sympathizer register. During the call, the Applicant's database is also temporary
also carried out its review, according to this, if the Respondent during the phone call
colleagues noticed that there was a change in the data previously provided by the person concerned
occurred, it was forwarded to the central organizational unit of the Respondent, which a
transferred a change through the register, and if the employee who made the phone call did so
the employee sees that he previously only provided his phone number in relation to an affected person
asks the data subject if he/she provides his/her e-mail address and consents to a
You are requested to handle it in the future for the purpose of contacting and asking for opinions. The e-mail thus entered
contact information will also be forwarded by the employee to the central organizational unit of the Applicant
in order to register the additional data.

IV.2.2. According to his declaration, the Respondent is personal under the same name as the Applicant
data was not processed at the time of the Authority's inquiry. In connection with this, the Applicant

 



15

submitted that the reason for this is presumably that the Applicant's request for personal data
previously deleted based on

In relation to the Applicant's statement, the Authority establishes that the Applicant has already been
Dated 30 June 2021, NAIH-5637-5/2021. stated in his order clarifying the facts no
about the source of the Applicant's given telephone number, as well as the given one
what additional personal data is registered in connection with the telephone number, and in this regard
attach a screenshot of the relevant part of the database. The Authority is also separate
informed the Applicant about which of the Applicant's personal data is being processed and what they are
the source from which it was obtained, which the database also requested to support
the attachment of a screen save made by the relevant part.

Following this call from the Authority, the Respondent declared that the Applicant's data -
neither the telephone number provided, nor the Applicant's name and other related personal data
- at the time of the Authority's inquiry, the Requested sympathizers were not included
in its records.

Based on the Respondent's answer, the Authority assumed that - despite the fact that the database
of its relevant parts, the Respondent gave a screenshot of the questions included in the order
not attached to his answer - that the Respondent based on the questions contained in the above order of the Authority
came to the conclusion that the Applicant's data was not in the sympathizer register
are included, because the search is carried out in the manner expected of him in his records for both the phone number and
carried out on behalf of the Applicant.

The Applicant's statement - sent to the Authority on October 15, 2021 via ePaper
however, in October 2021, he received new phone calls to the indicated phone number
From a customer. In this regard, the Respondent stated that previously on behalf of the Applicant
checked its database by searching whether it manages its personal data. Thereafter
however, that the Respondent learned from the Authority's inquiry that the Applicant is newer
received a phone call to his phone number, then he verified by searching the given phone number that
whether it is registered in the sympathizer database. During this, the Respondent noticed that a
phone number is assigned to another person, therefore, in view of this, the objectionable data processing
terminated, deleted the phone number from its database.

IV.2.3. According to what was presented by the Respondent, if the person concerned during the phone call
declares his request for deletion, the employee handling the call will record that call, and then - since data deletion is
in the sympathizer register, only the central organization of the Requested person can execute - the request
transmits it via an internal network to the central organization of the Requested Party, where the data is processed
deletion. According to his statement, the Respondent does not keep records that a
contains the personal data of those concerned who previously requested the deletion of their data.

According to the Respondent's statement, the Authority previously issued guidelines in this regard
pursues the legal practice that if the data subject requests the deletion of his personal data,
the Requested party deletes all data of the person concerned.

Accordingly, as a result of data deletion, the legality of data management cannot be verified afterwards
they know, and since data deletion covers all registered data, they don't know it either
verify afterwards that they have complied with the requirements arising from Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation
information obligation.

Subsequently, during the procedure, the Respondent repeatedly called on the Authority to substantiate that
the Applicant's personal data is not managed in its records, and the Applicant separately
does not handle your phone number and related personal data, attached two screenshots,
which was narrowed down to the Applicant's name and address, as well as his phone number
search.

In view of the above, the Authority established that the Respondent after the cancellation request
handled the personal data of the Applicant's phone number illegally and without legal basis, thereby
violated Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

 



16

Despite this, the Respondent continued to manage the referenced telephone number, and in 2021
In October, he repeatedly initiated a call that the Authority's procedure was already in progress,
furthermore, he stated to the Authority that the telephone number was previously - probably the Applicant
following your deletion request indicated during a phone call - deleted. The Respondent is not the cancellation request
did not act adequately during its implementation or when answering the questions contained in the Authority's order
carefully when checking your database, because it would have been the same in both cases
a reasonably expected step is to search and check the phone number in the database.

 

IV.3. The purpose of the phone call

According to the Respondent's statement, the purpose of the telephone campaign is to emphasize the importance of vaccination
was a presentation.

According to the Respondent's statement, the task of the persons making the calls during the campaign was to
to call and talk to sympathizers on the telephone numbers available to them
tell them about the importance of vaccination. If during the call they detect that the sympathizers
there has been a change in your data, it should be forwarded to the Requested central organization
unit, which passes the change through the register. In addition, if regarding the data subject
the sympathizer database only contains the phone number, so the person concerned should ask for it
your consent to the management of your electronic contact information, and the data provided in this way are forwarded to
for a central organizational unit. Furthermore, if in relation to the data subject in the database,
old e-mail addresses were registered (UPC, chello), which are presumably from the service provider
the timeliness and accuracy of these e-mail contacts will cease or have ceased due to this
had to be checked during the call.

With regard to the examined data management, the Applicant - on July 27, 2021 and September 16, 2021
Based on the statements made in the letter received by the Authority, the Authority determined that a
Purpose of data management realized in connection with a telephone call initiated by the respondent
on the one hand, information about the importance of the Covid vaccination, and on the other hand, sympathy
clarification of the data of the data subjects included in the database and possible additional contact
data was collected.

 

IV.4. Request for cancellation by the Applicant

Based on what was presented in the Applicant's report, the Applicant, in addition to verbally during the call
requested information from the Applicant about the management (source) of his personal data, including a deletion request
turned to the Applicant. The Applicant confirmed this with his statement during the procedure.

The data subject's rights have been exercised, the data subject's request - deletion, information - can then be proven
accordingly, if the request is made in writing. Because a purely verbal communication is not
can be reconstructed exactly, so the relevant proof does not even lead to results if,
if only the statements of the parties are available.

In the present case, there is no written documentation or evidence of the Applicant's exercise of rights as an affected party
regarding. The Akr. Based on § 64, paragraph (1), the client can replace the missing person with his statement
evidence, if it is not possible to obtain it, and the Ákr. Based on paragraph (3) of § 6, the
in the procedure, the client's good faith must be presumed, and proof of bad faith will require the authority
is burdened.

The Authority NAIH/2020/1486/2. file number, the Respondent's response to the request for a decision
according to Article 17 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to
that, upon request, the data controller deletes the personal data relating to him without undue delay
data, and the data controller is obliged to provide the personal data concerning the data subject
delete it without undue delay, including if the data subject withdraws it
Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
within the meaning of point a), the consent that forms the basis of the data management, and the data management does not have

 



17

other legal basis. The scope of the right to erasure applies to all automated, mechanical means,
and they all cover manual, paper-based data management. According to the answer, if it is affected
withdraw your previously given consent to the processing of your personal data and data processing
has no other legal basis, the data controller must delete all personal data of the data subject. The
after the deletion of the personal data of the person concerned, the data management shall, by definition, apply to him
ceases, and in the absence of data management, its legality cannot be verified.

Related to this legal interpretation is Article 11 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which
pursuant to this, if the data controller no longer needs the personal data, such
in such a way that the affected parties can be identified, then he is not obliged to provide additional information
to keep in order to be able to identify the data subject in order to comply with
regulation.

If the data controller is unable to identify the data subject, he/she should inform about this, if possible
the data subject, or, in the case of data processing that does not require identification, a right of the data subject
wish to exercise, the data controller is obliged to do so if the data subject is identified
provides enabling information.

The above is confirmed by the preamble (64) of the general data protection regulation,
according to which the data controller may not retain personal data solely for the purpose of a
can answer possible requests.

5/2020 on EDPB consent. based on point 107 of the guidelines no.
that the Respondent's obligation to prove consent is data management
lasts until its existence, it is therefore terminated by the cancellation, and therefore no further acts of proof are required
expected result.

The Authority's statement of the Applicant and the attached document (screen save by the Applicant
based on your name and address, as well as separately on the result of the search for the phone number),
that the Respondent deleted the Applicant's personal data, as a result of which the data management a
With regard to the applicant's personal data, it has been terminated.

During the procedure, no evidence emerged to establish the exact date of the deletion
it would have been.

In the present case, the Authority accepted that, based on the above legal interpretation, the Respondent deleted the
The applicant's personal data together with information supporting the legality of data management,
also draws attention to the fact that the Authority considers it acceptable on a case-by-case basis,
if the data controllers provide information related to the fulfillment of the data subject request, which is part of it
may also be classified as personal data, they are preserved in view of the fact that the legality of their procedure is
they can prove it later. The Authority emphasizes that this does not mean automatic consideration
without the possibility to preserve personal data related to the fulfillment of data subject requests,
and the personal data requested to be deleted may not be referred to another purpose and legal basis
with its preservation, if otherwise the deletion of personal data is required by Article 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
conditions according to Article would exist. Thus, the data controller must consider on a case-by-case basis whether it is
whether given data is necessary for the protection and enforcement of your legal claims, and what are the realistic chances
that the person concerned initiates some kind of legal procedure against him.

The Authority, in relation to the Applicant's request to establish that the Respondent
violated the principle of accountability contained in Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation by
that the Applicant did not comply with the Authority's requests to certify the Applicant's cancellation
that the relevant request has taken place, and also certifies in a verifiable manner that the Applicant
does not manage your personal data, emphasizes that it is the competence of the Authority to consider it
his answers during the data management procedure, the fulfillment of his procedural obligations, and as a result of this
application for official data protection procedure cannot be submitted. In view of this, the
Authority to the Applicant's request that the Authority establish the general data protection
violation of the principle of accountability contained in Article 5 (2) of the Decree, rejected.

 



18

Considering that the IV.2. as established in point, the Respondent is the Applicant
processed his personal data without a legal basis because, despite the Applicant's request to delete his phone number
did not delete it from his records, and the Applicant called the phone number again in October 2021
received, the Authority partially granted the Applicant's request and found that a
The Respondent violated Article 17 of the Applicant's general data protection regulation
right to deletion.

However, the fulfillment of the Applicant's request for the Authority to instruct a
A request to delete personal data processed without a legal basis was implemented during the procedure
subject to deletion, it has become obsolete, therefore the Authority Section 47, subsection (1), point c).
terminated the procedure in this part of the application.

 

IV.5. The Applicant's request to exercise the right of access

According to the Applicant's statement, during the call to his telephone number, he requested information about
the source of your personal data, but chooses to call on behalf of the Respondent
not received from the initiator.

According to the Respondent's statement, the employees who initiate the phone call are the data management
they do not have data regarding its legal basis or the duration of data management, only a
they have access to necessary information from the sympathizer register. If the Applicant
requested information about this from the staff member who initiated the phone call, for this reason
the Respondent's employee could not provide information. Attention to the phone call
According to his statement, the Respondent subsequently has no information regarding its specific content,
therefore, it cannot confirm the Applicant's statement that it handles personal data
received no information regarding

In addition, the Respondent stated that, in his opinion, it was not proven that
the Applicant would have turned to the Respondent with a request for information, because the Applicant's statement was not
evidence in the relevant case. Therefore, if the Authority from the point of view of judging the case
considers it relevant what questions the Applicant formulated orally to the Authority
must conduct the relevant evidentiary procedure.

The exercise of the rights of the data subject has taken place, the data subject's request - request for information - can then be proven
accordingly, if the request is made in writing. Because a purely verbal communication is not
can be reconstructed exactly, so the relevant proof does not even lead to results if,
if only the statements of the parties are available.

In the present case, there is no written documentation or evidence of the Applicant's exercise of rights as an affected party
regarding. The Akr. Based on § 64, paragraph (1), the client can replace the missing person with his statement
evidence, if it is not possible to obtain it, and the Ákr. Based on paragraph (3) of § 6, the
in the procedure, the client's good faith must be presumed, and proof of bad faith will require the authority
is burdened.

In addition to the above, the Authority emphasizes that Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
it specifically establishes the data controller's burden of proof in terms of whether the data subject is suitable
has been informed. The general data protection regulation does not exclude oral information
possibility, however, in the absence of adequate provability in the event of a statement to the contrary by the data subject
the doubtful situation by the Authority on the basis of Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
as a general rule, it is assessed at the expense of the data controller.

Accordingly, the Authority accepted the Applicant's statement that his telephone number
during the call he received, he requested information from the party calling him about the source of his personal data, however, a
the person who initiated the phone call could not answer his question.

Considering that the IV.2. as established in point, the Respondent was managed by the Applicant
his personal data, because the Applicant received several phone calls about it despite his request to delete it,

 



19

the Authority determines that the Respondent has violated the Applicant's general data protection
the right of access contained in Article 15 (1) of the Regulation.

Pursuant to the provisions of Article 11 of the General Data Protection Regulation - IV.2. were also explained in point
according to - the data controller does not have to keep personal data exclusively after data deletion
in order to be able to respond to possible requests. Noting that the
Respondent - according to his statement and the testimony of the attached screenshots - the Applicant
does not manage his personal data, so in the absence of data management, the Applicant's request for access
cannot be fulfilled subsequently. As a result of the above, the Authority has included in the relevant section
decided according to the Applicant's request regarding the fulfillment of his access request
rejection.

 

IV.6. Obligation to provide appropriate information

IV.6.1. The IV.3. as detailed in point, with regard to the examined data management, the Respondent
based on his statements, the Authority established that it was initiated by the Respondent
The purpose of data processing in connection with a telephone call is, on the one hand, Covid vaccination
information about its importance, on the other hand, the stakeholders included in the sympathizer database
clarification of your data and possible collection of additional contact data.

According to the Respondent's statement, the phone calls are made by their colleagues in the sympathizer database
it was initiated towards the persons involved, i.e. those who had previously consented to their personal data
for treatment. Before providing personal data, the data subjects received information on data protection,
furthermore, the Applicant posted information about the sympathizer register on its website.

According to the Respondent's statement in his response letter of July 27, 2021, the phone call
initiating colleagues only had access to the necessary data from the sympathizer database
in addition, they do not provide for the legal basis of data management or the duration of data management
data, so if the Applicant asked a question about this, their colleague did not know
to provide information during the telephone conversation.

With the Applicant's statement - that during the call, the person who initiated the call did not know
provide an answer about how the Applicant obtained the personal data of the Applicant
in what form you can submit your cancellation request, and it is also available on the website of the Requested Party
did not receive any information about data management information, or that adatvedelem@fidesz.hu
you can request the deletion of your personal data at
yes.

The Respondent's statement in the reply letter received by the Authority on May 25, 2022
he also confirmed what he had previously stated, that in the specific case, if the call
the initiating employee received a question about the source from which the Requested person handles the call
person's personal data, he could not access the data necessary to answer, thus
was unable to provide information.

According to Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, it is the duty of the data controller
to take appropriate measures in order to provide the data subjects with personal data
all the information mentioned in articles 13 and 14 and articles 15-22 and 34.
each piece of information according to Article is concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible
provide it in a clear and comprehensible form.

The system of appropriate information in the general data protection regulation serves that
concerned to be aware of which personal data, which data controller and for which purpose,
how will you handle it. This is essential for the person concerned to be in a position to
can meaningfully exercise its stakeholder rights. In the absence of adequate information, it is by definition
the data subject is not in a position to properly and effectively exercise his data subject rights
contribute to something you are not fully aware of. The General Data Protection Regulation
(74) and on the basis of Article 24(1) and Article 25(1)
the data manager to expectations commensurate with the risk posed by the data management to the rights of the data subjects

 



20

is obliged to comply with and is actively responsible for the data controller's obligations, thus informing the data subject
for making it available.

Based on the above, the Authority established that the Respondent by being the Applicant
you did not provide adequate information about your personal data when contacted by phone
about the most important information related to its management and the exercise of the data subject's rights
provided appropriate, facilitating information, violated the general data protection regulation
Paragraphs (1)-(2) of Article 12 and Paragraph (2) of Article 13.

IV.6.2. The Respondent provided information to the Authority during its telephone campaigns
in relation to information, he stated in general that the calls are all
in this case, it is initiated towards the persons included in the sympathizer database, i.e. on
to persons who have previously consented to the processing of their personal data for such purposes. The
when providing their personal data, data subjects receive information about data management, and a
Information is also available on the applicant's website.

According to the Authority's point of view, the Respondent should be given a short information at the beginning of the phone call
the most important information related to the planned data management must be presented to the stakeholders,
so, in particular, the source of the called telephone number, i.e. find out that the
the call was received by the person concerned because he had previously entered this for further contact purposes
availability during the collection of signatures of the Applicant. This is a short data management
information should also include information on how and what the data subjects exercise their rights as data subjects
manner and contact details, referring to the fact that the detailed data management
information sheet - which contains the information required in Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation
- on what other interface the affected parties can find it in the future.

In particular, it is not acceptable in the situation that the person concerned is on the phone when visiting
a colleague does not know basic information about specific data management
to provide information that the legal basis for data management is consent and the exercise of the rights of the data subjects
in what way
they can do so when the purpose of the call initiated by the data controller is a
clarification of personal data stored on the legal basis of consent in its register, as well as the individual
with regard to data subjects, new contact information based on the data subjects' consent
collection as well.

According to the position and constant practice of the Authority, consent is one of the most important concepts
it can be considered an element that the consent is based on adequate information. It's common
According to Article 4, point 11 of the data protection decree, consent is the will of the data subject
voluntary, concrete declaration, which must be based on adequate information.

Article 24 of the General Data Protection Regulation during the planning of data management for the Respondent
(1) and Article 25 (1) should have taken into account the fact that the chosen
method and its implementation should meet the legal requirements such that a
during telephone campaigns - whether the text is read out orally by the caller or by a machine
via text - the Respondent must provide appropriate information to those concerned about their personal data
regarding its treatment. The obligation of the Respondent is the general data protection regulation
based on the referenced provisions, not only the prescription of all these, but also their implementation and the
implementation control as well.

The Authority based on the statements of the Applicant described above during the telephone campaigns
in relation to its general data management information practice,
that the Respondent does not provide basic information to those concerned during the telephone call
general information regarding the management of their personal data, and thus the data subjects
the data subject's right to exercise rights is violated, Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation is violated
(2), Article 24 (1) and Article 25 (1).

 

 

 

 



21

V. Legal Consequences

V.1. The Authority partially granted the Applicant's request and the general data protection regulation
based on Article 58 (2) point b) established that

the Respondent handled the Applicant's telephone number data without a legal basis,

-
violated Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

the Respondent violated the Applicant's right of access pursuant to Article 15(1) and

-
your right to erasure according to Article 17.

-
 the Respondent by not providing the Applicant with the phone call
appropriate information about the most important information related to the management of your personal data
and did not provide information facilitating the exercise of the data subject's rights, he violated it
Article 12 (1)-(2) and Article 13 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

The Authority ex officio based on Article 58 (2) point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
established that the Respondent did not provide the concerned persons during the telephone calls
basic general information regarding the management of their personal data and thus the data subject
their right to exercise their rights is violated, it violates Article 13 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph, paragraph (1) of Article 24 and paragraph (1) of Article 25. The Authority is therefore general
on the basis of Article 58 (2) point d) of the Data Protection Regulation, ex officio instructed the Applicant,
to modify the telephone campaigns in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation
during his information practice.

V.2. Infotv. Based on Section 61 (2) points a) and c) - since the decision affects a wide range of persons and the
the nature of the violations established is serious - the Authority considers this decision to be justified
Disclosing the requested data by publishing it.

 

VI. Other questions:

This decision is based on Art. 80-81 § and Infotv. It is based on paragraph (1) of § 61. The decision is in Art.
Based on § 82, paragraph (1), it becomes final upon its publication. The Akr. § 112 and § 116 (1)
paragraph or § 114 (1) against the decision by way of an administrative lawsuit
there is room for a legal remedy.

The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. § 13, subsection (3) a)
On the basis of point aa), the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27 (1)
legal representation is mandatory in a lawsuit falling under the jurisdiction of the court based on paragraph b). Cp.
According to § 39, paragraph (6) - if the law does not provide otherwise - the submission of the statement of claim
it does not have the effect of postponing the entry into force of the administrative act.

The Kp. Paragraph (1) of § 29 and, in view of this, Pp. According to § 604, the electronic one is applicable
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of administration and trust services. law (a
hereinafter: E-administration act) according to § 9, paragraph (1), point b) of the customer's legal representative
obliged to maintain electronic contact.

The time and place of submitting the statement of claim is set by Kp. It is defined by § 39, paragraph (1). The trial
information about the possibility of an application for holding the Kp. It is based on paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77. THE
the amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit is determined by Act XCIII of 1990 on fees. law (hereinafter:
Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. Regarding the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1)
paragraph and § 62 paragraph (1) point h) exempts the party initiating the procedure.

Infotv. According to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data, as well as
the enforcement of the right to access data of public interest and public interest
control and promotion, as well as the free flow of personal data within the European Union
facilitating. According to paragraph (2a) of the same § in the general data protection regulation, the supervisory

 



22

tasks and powers established for the authority under the jurisdiction of Hungary
with regard to legal entities, they are defined in the general data protection regulation and this law
according to the Authority. The Authority's jurisdiction covers the entire territory of Hungary.

In view of the fact that the Authority has exceeded the administrative deadline, Ákr. Based on point b) of § 51
pays HUF 10,000 to the Applicant's bank account - according to his choice to be indicated in writing
by money order or postal order.

If the Respondent does not adequately certify the fulfillment of the prescribed obligation, the Authority shall
considers that the obligation has not been fulfilled within the deadline. The Akr. According to § 132, if the obligee
did not comply with the obligation contained in the authority's final decision, it can be enforced. The Authority
decision of the Akr. According to § 82, paragraph (1), it becomes final with the communication. The Akr. § 133
according to the implementation - if the law or government decree does not provide otherwise - the decision
ordered by the issuing authority. The Akr. Pursuant to § 134, enforcement - if it is a law, a government decree
or in a municipal authority case, the local government decree does not provide otherwise - it
is carried out by the state tax authority. Infotv. Based on Section 60 (7) in the Authority's decision
to carry out a specified act, conduct, or tolerate
to stop
the
It is undertaken by an authority.

regarding

implementation

obligation

decision

directed

the

Dated in Budapest according to the electronic signature

 

 
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
 
 c. professor

president

 

 
 
 

 
 

    
 

 
 

 
  

  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

