
























As part of the ARC project, co-financed from the European Union program "Rights, Equality and Citizenship", on February 14, the officers of the Personal Data Protection Agency held a new online workshop "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation", which they organized in cooperation with Croatia organized by the employers' association for its members, specifically micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs.
During the workshop, entrepreneurs had the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the key terms and provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. Namely, according to research carried out by the Agency, entrepreneurs are often not familiar with basic concepts and do not know who is the data controller and who is the processor. In order to properly process personal data as data controllers, the Agency's officials explained the legal basis for processing personal data and why consent is not required for each processing.
AZOP officials touched on the processing of personal data through the video surveillance system, popular cookies, but also explained what technical and organizational measures need to be taken to ensure the appropriate level of personal data protection. However, if there is a breach of personal data, entrepreneurs learned how to act in that case at the workshop.
It is essential that all those who process personal data are well informed about their obligations, coordinate their operations and in this way avoid situations in which they may find themselves in the role of violators of the General Regulation on Data Protection, and the Agency helps with these workshops.
Today's workshop is a continuation of activities within the framework of the European project ARC, in which education has been held so far for over 5,000 entrepreneurs and data protection officers. Considering that craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, unlike large ones, usually do not have enough financial and human resources needed to comply with data protection regulations, the Agency provides full support to bring their business into compliance with the GDPR and in it continues to do so in 2022. The next workshop will be held on March 14, 2022, and you can register here.
You can find more information about the ARC project on the official website of the ARC project, but also watch a short promotional ARC video.

