

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Municipal camera systems and the use of biometrics technology (UOOU-01319/20)
Statutory City


The inspection was launched on the basis of the inspection plan for 2020. The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations of the personal data administrator when processing the personal data of data subjects in connection with the use of camera systems within the city, in particular the inspection of the fulfillment of obligations according to Article 6 and Article 7, Article 9, Article 11-19 and Article 32 of the General Regulation and, to the extent, the corresponding obligations under Article 5 of the General Regulation. The inspection revealed that the inspected person uses camera systems operated by the city police (city surveillance system, monitoring of traffic lights, mobile cameras on policemen's lapels, cameras placed in official vehicles), camera systems used directly by the city (protection of underground garages) and camera systems installed in two city districts for the purpose of property protection, while, as the inspection found, none of the camera systems use cameras with the function of automatic identification of persons, that is, with technology that uses a special category of data (Article 9 of the General Regulation) - biometrics. The inspection found, that the controlled person, within the framework of the use of installed camera systems, processes the personal data of the data subjects, which are personal data within the meaning of Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Regulation and processes them within the meaning of the definition of Article 4, paragraph 2 of the General Regulation. The controlled person has determined the purpose and means of personal data processing, therefore, in the sense of Article 4 point 7 of the General Regulation, he is the administrator of personal data processed through camera systems, the processing is in the sense of Article 6 letter c) of the general regulation is legal, as it is carried out for the purpose of fulfilling the tasks of the municipality in the sense of Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on municipalities (municipal facilities), Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on the municipal police, including Decree No. 88 /1996 Coll., which implements the Act on Municipal Police, Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic and Municipal Police in the sense of Act No. Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, including Decree No. 88/1996 Coll., which implements the Municipal Police Act, Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic and is also legal in the sense of Article 6, paragraph 1 letter e) of the general regulation, as it is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests of the administrator or a third party, i.e. in particular the protection of persons and property, ensuring the safety and protection of entrusted property and other specified purposes. The inspection did not reveal a violation of the obligations arising from the inspected person from Article 28 of the general regulation. The inspection did not reveal any violation of the duties of the inspected person imposed on him as a personal data manager according to Article 30 point 1 of the General Regulation, as he has precisely defined personal data processing procedures, keeps records of processing activities that contain information according to points 1-3 of Article 30 of the General Regulation ordinance. Checking taking into account the specific nature, scope, context, procedures and purposes of processing, incl. consideration of the risk during processing, stated that the adopted technical and organizational measures ensure a sufficient level of security within the meaning of Article 32 of the General Regulation and the processing is in accordance with the principle expressed in Article 5 point 1 letter f) of the general regulation.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Municipalities and state administration > Municipal camera systems and the use of biometrics technology (UOOU -01319/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



