1/6

 File No.: PS/00123/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated August 11, 2020, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, a resolution was issued in the sanctioning procedure number
PS/00134/2019, followed up against RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS OF
ELDERS OF *** LOCALITY.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). in bliss
resolution, in addition to directing a warning, the following was required:

"THIRD:
  RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS FOR THE ELDERLY
***LOCALIDAD.1 must prove in compliance with article 58.2.d) of the RGPD the
measures implemented so that the personal data of job offers or
job boards are not visible when their purpose has been fulfilled, term of
exposure and blocking of data.”

SECOND: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure was notified
irrefutably on August 26, 2020 to the respondent, as evidenced
accredited in the file.

THIRD: This Agency has not received any writing on the measures
implemented by the claimed party, they were requested again in two
occasions so that, within a month, they could accredit before this Agency having
adopted the appropriate corrective measures, in accordance with what was agreed in the aforementioned
Resolution.

These requirements were collected by the person in charge on October 7,
2020 and November 22, 2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificates that
they work in the file.

FOURTH: Against the aforementioned resolution, in which the adoption of measures is required,
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not stated his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

FIFTH: On March 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.6 of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

SIXTH: The aforementioned initial agreement was collected by the person in charge on the 28th of
March 2022, as stated in the Notific@ certificate in the file.

SEVENTH: Dated May 10, 2022 and entry registration number
***REGISTRATION.1, the party complained against submits a written statement of allegations to the agreement of
beginning in which it states that among the measures adopted are the double control of
the documents sent for publication and the anonymization of the data that must be
published. In addition, it affirms that the anomaly that occurred is a punctual, isolated and
unique and that once detected, action was taken immediately to solve the problem.

EIGHTH: On May 31, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
impose a sanction of warning to the claimed party.

NINTH: Dated June 16, 2022 and entry registration number
***REGISTRATION.2, the party complained against submits a brief of arguments to the proposal for
resolution in which it states that the temporary employment list ***LISTA.1 continues
published with the personal data of its members duly obfuscated in
Therefore, since there was no subsequent call with the same characteristics,
is suitable for making temporary contracts to its members and therefore, in
compliance with the regulations in force regarding the assignment of personnel not
permanent and transparency, its publicity must be guaranteed. Thus, in addition to the
previously alleged measures (double control of the documents sent to
publication and anonymization of the data to be published), the part
claimed has implemented the measure consisting of reviewing which lists and bags of
temporary employment must be unpublished, resulting from this analysis that, in
In particular, the employment list ***LIST.1 must continue to be published.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure and the requirements for the
compliance with the measures imposed therein indicated in the antecedent
third party were notified electronically, in accordance with the provisions of article 43
of the LPACAP. Said resolution became firm and executive by the course of the
deadlines for filing the appeals indicated therein.

SECOND: The respondent did not send any response to this Agency that
prove compliance with the measures imposed before the order was issued.
agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure.

THIRD: The notification of the agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning was carried out electronically through the Notific@ system, being
collected by the person in charge on March 28, 2022.

FOURTH: The respondent party has submitted arguments to the agreement to initiate this
sanctioning procedure collected in the seventh antecedent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

FIFTH: The notification of the proposed resolution was sent electronically to
through the Notific@ system, being collected by the person in charge on June 8,
2022.

SIXTH: The party complained against has submitted arguments to the proposed resolution
of this sanctioning procedure collected in the ninth antecedent.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

Arguments to the proposed resolution

II

In response to the allegations presented by the entity claimed to the proposal
resolution, the following should be noted.

The request to adopt measures was notified on August 26, 2020.
Likewise, the adoption of corrective measures was requested twice and
Finally, it was agreed to start this sanctioning procedure on March 21
of 2022, without until that date a reply had been received from the party
claimed. The communication of the measures during the instruction of this
procedure does not affect the existence of the proven facts constituting the
infringement.

As regards the measures communicated in the allegations, by this
Agency acknowledges receipt of the same, without this declaration implying any
pronouncement on the regularity or legality of the measures adopted.

You are warned about the provisions of article 5.2 of the RGPD, which establishes the principle
of proactive responsibility when it states that “The data controller will be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of article 1 and capable of demonstrating it”.
This principle refers to the obligation that falls on the person responsible for the
treatment not only of designing, implementing and observing the legal, technical and
and adequate organizational so that the processing of data is in accordance with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

regulations, but to remain actively vigilant throughout the entire life cycle
treatment so that compliance is correct, being also capable of
prove it.

III

unfulfilled mandate

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed failed to comply with the resolution of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection with
regarding the measures imposed on him.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Proven Facts" section are considered
constituting an infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of the
article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, which provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Typification and qualification of the infraction

IV

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the RGPD, which stipulates the following:

“Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority pursuant to article
58, paragraph 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following conduct:

“m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

Imputed sanction

Article 83.7 of the RGPD provides the following:
“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:
"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:
(…)
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
(…)
2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article."

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS FOR THE ELDERLY OF
***LOCALIDAD.1, with NIF Q8350062I, for a violation of Article 58.2 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.6 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ESTABLISHMENTS
HOMES FOR THE ELDERLY IN ***LOCALITY.1.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

