Stop E-Evidence Regulation!

E-Evidence Ordinance increases the intervention intensity of the so-called pro-
Council data storage many times over!

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, December 7th, 2018

Today the EU Council of Justice Ministers votes on the proposal of the EU
Commission for an E-Evidence Regulation. aim of this regulation
tion will be faster, investigating authorities across Europe
allow access to communications data. prosecution
authorities of the EU Member States should be given the power to
Providers of telecommunications and Internet services in
their member states of the EU and also in countries outside the EU
directly to the issuance of inventory, access, transaction
and to commit content data.

The discussions about this regulation neglect that
not only in Germany in the context of so-called data retention
Telecommunications service providers are obliged, among other things, to
store traffic data for a longer period of time. From this data it is possible to
accurate conclusions about the private life of those affected, in particular
draw their contact and interest profile.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "The e-evidence regulation leads in
game with national security law leads to massive violations of fundamental rights
impairments. Could foreign law enforcement agencies
directly from the providers on telecommunications traffic data

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from December 7th, 2018 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
access, the intensity of intervention of the already constitutionally
legally questionable data retention by a multiple
 
raise. Therefore, the e-evidence regulation should be urgent today
being stopped."
 

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public

public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian

Elected state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

