

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in connection with enabling access to the building (Napajedla Kindergarten)



On the basis of the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was compliance with the obligations of the administrator of personal data stipulated by Act No. 101/2000 Coll. in connection with the processing of personal data when people enter the kindergarten building.

The controlled person operates an electronic entry system, which is based on the systematic scanning and processing of fingerprints, which are biometric data and therefore sensitive data in the sense of § 4 letter b) Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The Office found that the controlled person does not have consent to the processing of the personal data in question and is therefore processing personal data in violation of § 9 letter a) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. The Office also found that the controlled person collects sensitive data that is not necessary for the fulfillment of the stated purpose, and thereby violated the personal data controller's obligation set forth in § 5 paragraph 1 letter d) Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (collection to an appropriate and necessary extent).

Following the objections filed by the audited person against the audit findings, the case was returned for further investigation by the Chairperson of the Office. Further objections of the controlled person against the findings stated in the addendum to the protocol were dealt with by the President of the Office by stating that the controlled person processes sensitive data, however, that it does so with the consent of the affected data subjects and that it is not data that would be processed in violation of § 5 paragraph 1 letter d) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., as the inspected person documented a change in the procedure and rules for using the system so that access to the relevant premises is supervised by an authorized natural person - an employee of the inspected person, and therefore, taking these additional measures into account, the chairwoman stated Office that in such a case the stated purpose of personal data processing is fulfilled.

The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st half year > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with allowing access to the building (Maternity nursery Napajedla)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



