Litigation Chamber
 
Decision on the merits 42/2020 of
July 30, 2020

 

 

 

 
File number: DOS-2019-04309
 
Subject: Complaint for publication of personal data in directories and
via telephone information services after a data subject has
requested that his personal data not be published, and for
transmission of personal data to other providers of directories and
telephone information services.
 
 
The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke
Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Frank De Smet and Yves Poullet, members;
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the
data protection, hereinafter the "GDPR");
 
Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the
"LCA";
 
Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on
December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;
 
Considering the documents in the file;
 
 
 

 

.
 .

.
.

.
.

2

 

made the following decision regarding:

the plaintiff, and,

-
- Proximus SA, a company whose head office is located at Boulevard du Roi Albert 27, B-1030
Brussels, and whose company number is 0202.239.951, hereinafter “the defendant”,
represented by Me Peter Craddock and Me Eline Van Bogget.
 

1. Scope of the procedure

 

1. This file concerns a complaint against the defendant. Therefore, requests
in the complaint which essentially concern the processing of other data controllers.
treatment will not be considered in this decision. These are therefore the requests of the
plaintiff to the Data Protection Authority to order the defendant:

-

-

-

-

-

-

to delete personal data "on the Internet"; [Editor's note: all passages
quoted in the file have been freely translated by the Translation Service of the General Secretariat
of the Data Protection Authority, in the absence of an official translation]
to delete personal data in the paper version of the Witte Gids
(Editor's note: equivalent in Flanders of the White Pages);
to provide "full records" of all information about the complainant that is
stored with third-party controllers;
to obtain the list of IP addresses belonging to people who have visited the Internet pages
containing the personal data of the complainant to those responsible for the
third-party processing;
to erase or delete personal data "with the person responsible for
these websites, the paper versions of Witte Gids, ...";
to order the defendant to create a new telephone number for the
complainant with the complainant's publicly available telephone service provider
(Telenet).
 

2. Facts and procedure

Facts
2. The defendant is a supplier of electronic directories and information services
within the meaning of the law of June 13, 2005 relating to electronic communications
(hereafter: LCE). For this file, two electronic directories of the defendant are
relevant, namely www.1207.be and www.1307.be. The defendant also offers the
directory inquiry services with the same names, namely 1207 and 1307.
It is also important to mention that the defendant is also a supplier of a service
telephone line accessible to the public within the meaning of article 2, 49° of the LCE (hereafter: operator).
 

3. The complainant has a subscription with an operator

third parties, namely Telenet.

 

4. On January 13, 2019, the Complainant sent a request to the Respondent by means of a form
contact information on the defendant's 1207 electronic directory website. Requirement
is worded as follows:

 
“Please do not include this telephone number in the Witte Gids, on the 1207.be site, ...
Please contact me only by e-mail [...]"
   
 

 

 

 

 

3

 

5. On January 28, 2019, an employee of the defendant responded to the complainant's request, as

as described in point 4, as follows:
 

“The number [X] is currently not included in the Gids edition. The information is not
no longer available from information (1207) or on the website (1207.be).
On our website www.1207.be you will find the latest update of all
published entries.”
 

6. On August 14, 2019, the Complainant contacted the Respondent again after noticing that his telephone number
telephone had not only been published in the electronic directories www.1207.be and
www.1307.be of the defendant, but also in several other electronic directories of
third-party controllers.
Via the contact form of 1207, the defendant's electronic directory, the plaintiff
request "not to mention [his/her phone number] on your website(s)
http://www.1207.be."
 

 

7. An employee of the defendant responds the same day and writes the following:

"[...] As requested, we have deleted your entry so that your data (number
telephone number, name and address) will no longer be used for directories or
telephone information. In a few days, your data will no longer be available
on www.1207.be – www.1307.be or with information (1207-1307).
We are also contacting Google in order to delete the corresponding links to our
site. In accordance with the legal provisions, your data has also been transmitted to
other directories or directory inquiry services that have requested [the
defendant] the provision of subscriber data, namely www.wittegids.be,
www.infobel.com, www.de1212.be and www.opendi.be. Through updates
monthly, they will also be informed of your request to no longer use your data."

 

 

8. Also on August 14, 2019, the complainant filed a complaint with the Authority for the Protection of

data1.
 
The complaint mentions in particular the following:
 

"despite my written and explicit request (see the supporting documents on the pdf e-mail and
online contact of 14-8-2019) not to take back my (brand new) telephone number
[...] nor my data in Witte Gids, on 1207.be, ..., [I noticed] this day, following a
phone call from a firm that does not have my phone number,
that my telephone number was still listed at least on www.1207.be,
www.1307.be, www.wittegids.be, www.infobel.be, www.de1212.be and most likely
therefore also on the corresponding information services 1207, 1307 as well as in the
paper versions of Witte Gids(en) and on www.opendi.be.”
 

9. In order to substantiate the alleged elements, the complainant attaches to the complaint addressed to the Protection Authority

data from screenshots of the websites of the electronic directories of:
- www.1207.be (issued by the defendant);
- www.1307.be (issued by the defendant);

                                                

1 See Article 58 of the LCA.

 

 



- www.wittegids.be (issued by FCR Media);
- www.infobel.com (issued by Kapitol)
- www.de1212.be (issued by European Directory Assistance).

4

The screenshots show the following:
-

-

-

-

for each of the aforementioned electronic directories websites, except ‘Witte Gids’:
the complainant's full first and last name;
with regard to the ‘Witte Gids’ electronic directory: the surname and initial of the first name of the
complainant;
for each of the aforementioned electronic directories websites: the postal address
completeness of the complainant;
For each of the aforementioned electronic directories websites, except ‘Witte Gids’ and
‘Infobel’: the telephone number of the complainant.
 

As regards the mention of the complainant's telephone number in the directories
documents from ‘Witte Gids’ and ‘Infobel’, in other words, no immediate proof is
presented regarding the publication of this telephone number.

 

10. In addition, the Complainant argues that it is likely that links already exist with Google and

other search engines, which are kept by these data controllers.
 

11. On August 27, 2019, the complaint was declared admissible by the Front Line Service of the Authority
of data protection on the basis of Article 58 of the LCA and the complaint is forwarded to the
Litigation Division under Article 62, § 1 of the LCA.
 

  

12. On September 5, 2019, the complainant sends an e-mail to 1207_info_nl@proximus.com. The Service of
copy the email.

the Data Protection Authority

receives

First line of
The email is worded as follows:

"Dear […],
 
Almost a month later, my data still appears on www.infobel.com (see
Annex). Can you do the emergency [?]"

 

 
13. On September 5, 2019, an employee of the defendant replied by e-mail as follows:

"Sir […],
 
Your data has also been transmitted to other directories or services of
telephone inquiries who had requested the provision of subscriber data to
[the defendant].
 
They have also been informed of your request to no longer use your data.
[The defendant] however has no view on the internal procedures of these other publishers.
 
For faster processing of your request, it is best to contact them
directly:

 For www.wittegids.be, you can send an e-mail to info@fcrmedia.be or the

contact at 078/151525

 

 



 For www.infobel.com, you can send an e-mail to info@infobel.com or

call 02/3792940

5

[…]”
 

14. The e-mail sent following this by the complainant – also on September 5, 2019 – to

info@infobel.com , is worded as follows:

"Dear,
 
On the proposal of [an associate of the defendant], which you will find below (and
for which I thank him), I ask you by this e-mail to delete my mention
(telephone number, name and address) on your website www.infobel.com, free of charge
understood. […]”
  

Proceedings before the Litigation Chamber
 
15. On September 12, 2019, the Litigation Division decided, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and
fund.

case

treaty

ACL,

can

to be

than

on

98

of

the

the

the

the article
 

16. By registered letter of September 12, 2019, the plaintiff and the defendant are informed of
this decision of the Litigation Chamber. In this letter, the parties are also informed
deadlines for transmitting their conclusions, in accordance with Articles 98 and 99 of the LCA.
 
Defendant's submissions
 

17. The

14

October

2019,

the

defendant

deposit

his

raw

conclusions.

 
In the description of the facts, the defendant explains certain things in more detail, in particular
the technical functioning of the reception and transmission of personal data
staff for directories and directory inquiry services:
 

"In the databases of [respondent's directories] and [directories of other
controllers], a distinction is made between Subscribers who must
appear in a directory and Subscribers who do not wish to appear in a directory.
In practice, this distinction results (for all Operators) in a unique code
in a Subscriber's record: 'NNNNN' for the first category (contact details
may appear) and ‘XXXXX’ for the second category (the coordinates remain
secrets).”
 

18. The Respondent indicates that following the Complainant's first request against it, the

January 13, 2019, it took the following action:
 

“[…] The defendant therefore adapted the recording concerned by assigning it the code
"secret" ("XXXXX"), in accordance with its obligations [...] and at the Complainant's request, and has
confirmed to the Complainant the correct processing of his request by e-mail on January 28, 2019
[…]
 
On January 31, 2019 the [defendant] received from Telenet as Operator,
as part of a routine communication of the Contact Details of its Subscribers, new

 

 

6

 

Complainant's contact details. This information from the Operator indicated that the Contact Information
of the Complainant should not be considered secret (“NNNNN”).
 
This information from the Operator has been automatically processed within the
[defendant's directories]. Therefore, in the case of the Complainant, the Contact Details
of the Complainant have (automatically) become publicly available again (with the code
"NNNNN" replacing the previous code "XXXXX").”
 

19. Respondent further points out that on August 14, 2019, it confirmed to Complainant within two
hours that his personal data would no longer be available via his directories or
its telephone information services, following the request made to this effect by the
complaining the same day.
 

 

20. With regard to the Complainant's claims, the Respondent advances four conclusions.

 

21. As a first submission, the Respondent refers to the jurisdiction of the Chamber
Litigation concerning
invokes that
in accordance with the legal provisions governing its jurisdiction, the Litigation Division does not
cannot issue an injunction for compensation. It therefore considers that the request in question
of the complainant must be rejected as inadmissible.
 

the claim for compensation. The defendant

 

22. Second, the Respondent wishes to address the admissibility of claims relating to
third parties, as well as the communication of a list of the IP addresses of the people who have consulted the
personal data of the complainant. The defendant considers the following claims
of the complainant as inadmissible: the complainant's request formulated in his complaint to delete
personal data "on the Internet", "in their paper version(s) of Witte Gids"
and to provide "full records" of the personal data processed through
directories and telephone information services of third parties, as well as the
asks to provide the complainant with a new telephone number via his current provider of
telephone services.
The defendant declares that it cannot "in any way" be held responsible for the processing
carried out "obviously by third parties".
 

 

23. With respect to the Complainant's request to provide a list of IP addresses, the Respondent
argues that this request is "grossly disproportionate and reckless". The defendant
believes that providing such a list would constitute an obvious violation of the privacy of individuals
concerned.

 
24. Third, the defendant wishes to address the alleged breaches of the GDPR and compliance
applicable regulations. For this conclusion, the defendant refers to the provisions
of the ECL. The defendant considers that the processing of the personal data of the
complainant, even after his requests, is lawful under the GDPR. The defendant emphasizes the
legal obligations for operators, pursuant to Article 45, § 2 juncto Article 46, § 2 of the
LCE, to make the "necessary data" available to directory providers and
telephone information services.

 

25. The defendant also refers to the legal obligation for operators set out in Article 45,
§ 3 juncto article 46, § 3 of the LCE to draw a distinction between personal data
personnel for which the subscribers concerned of the operator have asked not to appear

 

 

7

 

directories or telephone information services on the one hand, and the personal data
staff for which no request to this effect has been made on the other hand. In this case,
the complainant's request not to appear in directories or information services
telephone calls is not addressed to its own operator.

 

26. The defendant argues that if he did not wish (no longer) to appear in a directory or a service
information, the complainant should have contacted his own operator at
to which he subscribes. This would have changed the technical code to "XXXXX" instead of "NNNNN" in
all systems, with the effect that the post would not have appeared anywhere.

 

27. At the same time, the defendant develops an argument based on the provisions
of the GDPR relating to the right of rectification provided for in Article 16 of the GDPR. The defendant
indeed argues that the plaintiff's request to change the code "NNNNN" to "XXXXX"
constitutes a request for rectification.

 

28. The defendant asserts, however, that Article 16 of the GDPR does not apply to the operator of the
plaintiff in this case, given that "this provision of the GDPR does not [take precedence] over the
regulation under the ECA", because the provisions of the ECA have their origin in the
Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 on the
processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the sector of
electronic communications (hereinafter: e-Privacy Directive)2. The defendant considers that
following the plaintiff's request, Article 16 of the GDPR does apply to itself, given that
the provisions of articles 45 and 46 of the LCE do not concern it in its capacity as supplier
directories and directory inquiry services.

 
29. The defendant asserts the following:

 
“As a result, [the defendant] cannot be blamed for having integrated
automatically the information of [operator] in the database 1207, even
if it was in contradiction with a previous request by the Complainant."

 

30. Finally, the defendant discusses the importance of the confidentiality of the parties in the event of publication
of the decision by the Litigation Chamber. The defendant asks the Litigation Chamber
that in the event of publication of the decision, it is anonymized. The defendant invokes
this the pseudonymization decision in the majority of previous House decisions
Litigation and
the defendant.
 

the absence of "gross negligence" in

the leader of

31. The Complainant does not submit any submissions in reply.

 

 

32. On November 13, 2019, the defendant confirms the content of its first conclusions.

 

33. During its meeting of March 3, 2020, the Litigation Chamber decides that it is useful to hear the
defendant and to convene it for this purpose pursuant to Article 52 of the Rules of Procedure
within the Data Protection Authority. In the minutes of this meeting, the
Litigation Chamber specifies that it wishes explanations on the transmission of data to

                                                

2 EU Official Journal No. L 201 of July 31, 2002, 37-47.

3 See the conclusions of the defendant: "It could not be a request in accordance with articles 45 and 46 of the LCE
(not to be listed in the directory / directory inquiry service) as such inquiries should be directed to
the operator."

 

 

8

 

personal nature to directories and third-party directory inquiry services and
on the lawfulness of this transmission with regard to Article 6 of the GDPR. In addition, the Chamber
Litigation wants explanations on the legal qualification of the plaintiff's request
by the defendant requesting the exercise of the "right of rectification" in accordance with Article 16
of the GDPR.
 

 

34. The parties were therefore called to a hearing on March 23, 2020. Only the defendant

confirmed his presence.

 

The hearing
 
35. Given that at various times during the period preceding the hearing, the Federal State
promulgated measures to limit the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus, in particular by
the ministerial decree of March 13, 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of
coronavirus COVID-19 (M.B. of March 13, 2020), preventing the Litigation Chamber from organizing
a hearing in the usual way, it was proposed to the defendant to organize the hearing by the
through electronic means of communication. The defendant consented to this. The hearing has
therefore been postponed to April 1, 2020.
 

 

36. During the hearing, the Respondent explains its conclusions in more detail. She refers to
provisions of the LCE referred to above, which provide that operators must provide
the personal data of their subscribers in a non-discriminatory manner to all
providers of directories and directory inquiry services.
 

 

37. The defendant also invokes a judgment4 of the European Court of Justice

explaining that the subscriber's consent to his operator for the transmission of
personal data with a view to publication in the directories and services of
telephone information cannot be differentiated according to the identity of the publisher or the
directory and directory inquiry service provider as recipient
such data.
 

 

38. The defendant further points out that the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and
Telecommunications (hereafter: BIPT) had indicated in several documents accessible to the public
that the defendant would continue to play a central role in the collection and transmission of
subscriber data, after the universal telephony service is no longer organized by the
defendant5. Indeed, according to the defendant, all the providers of directories and
telephone inquiries cannot obtain character data as easily
personnel with the operators and the transmission of personal data corresponds
BIPT's expectations. The defendant considers that this would be in accordance with the aforementioned judgment of the
Court.

Reaction form against a proposed fine
 
39. On July 1, 2020, the Litigation Division sent the defendant a feedback form
against a proposed fine, informing the defendant that the Litigation Chamber
intended to impose a fine of EUR 20,000. The elements that the defendant has
then advanced in the feedback form were taken into account by the Litigation Chamber

                                                

4 CJEU, judgment of 5 May 2011, Deutsche Telekom AG v Bundesrepublik Deutschland, C-543/09, ECLI:EU:C:2011:279.

5 In the position of its legal predecessor, Belgacom.

 

 

9

 

in its deliberation. In its reaction, the defendant also confirmed that the figures
known to the Dispute Chamber were still current.
 
3. Motivation

 
3.1
 

Competence of the Litigation Chamber (article 100 of the LCA)

40. The powers of the Litigation Chamber are exhaustively listed in Article
100 of the ACL. The defendant objects that the Litigation Chamber does not have jurisdiction in this matter.
regarding the plaintiff's claim for compensation.
Given that the granting of compensation does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Litigation Chamber
as enumerated in article 100 of the LCA, the Litigation Chamber cannot proceed
at the complainant's request in this regard.
 
3.2 Controllers (Art. 4(7) GDPR)

 

 

 

41. The definition of "controller" in the GDPR is as follows6:

 
"a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body
who, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing
personal data; when the purposes and means of this processing are
determined by Union law or the law of a Member State, the controller
may be designated or the specific criteria applicable to its designation may be provided
by Union law or by the law of a Member State".
 

42. The definition of "controller" in the GDPR is almost the same as that

included in article 2, d) of the European Union Data Protection Directive
of a personal nature, currently repealed.7
 
The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereafter: the Court of Justice) and the
opinion of the "Article 29" Working Party (hereafter: Working Party 29) concerning this term may
therefore be used in a similar manner and be applied mutatis mutandis8.

 

43. The defendant asserts on the one hand that the plaintiff should have sent the request for non-
publication of personal data in directories and information services
telephone information to its own operator. According to the defendant, a request for
non-publication of the personal data addressed to him should be qualified
legally request to exercise a right of rectification. Furthermore, the defendant declares
that it can "not be responsible in any way and does not intervene as responsible
processing" for processing carried out with third parties.
 

44. On the other hand, the defendant stated during the hearing that according to it, both the operators and
publishers or suppliers of directories and directory inquiry services are
separate controllers.

                                                

6 Article 4(7) GDPR.

7 Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, OJ EU L. 281/31.

8 See the argument of the Court in CJEU, Judgment of July 29, 2019, Fashion ID GmbH & Co KG c. Verbraucherzentrale NRW
eV, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:C:2019:629.

 

 

10

 

 

45. In order to avoid any confusion, it should be explained why the Litigation Division considers
the defendant as data controller for several processing operations noted in the
case. Important treatments in this specific explanation concern: 9

-

-

-

the extraction and consultation of the complainant's personal data from
its operator and then the recording of this personal data;
the provision of this personal data by the publication of its
own directories and via its own directory inquiry services;
the communication of this personal data by transmission to
providers of directories and directory inquiry services of others.

 

The question then is whether the defendant "determines the purposes and means" of the processing
mentioned above, as a necessary element to meet the requirements of the concept of
"controller" as defined in the GDPR.

 

3.2.1. The concept of "determine"

 
46. Whether the interpretation of "determine" complies with EU law is only possible after

analysis of the facts or circumstances of the case10.
 

 

47. With regard to the publication of directories and the provision of directory inquiry services,
it can be seen that it was the defendant who initiated the processing. The defendant asks
the personal data of the persons concerned from the operators and, from its
own initiative, publishes (electronic) directories and makes available the services of
telephone information. The defendant is approved by BIPT to offer directories
and directory inquiry services, pursuant respectively to Article 45, § 1 and
of article 46, § 1 of the LCE11.
 
It was the defendant who decided to offer such directories and information services
using for this purpose the complainant's personal data originally processed by
the operator.

 

 

48. Also with regard to the transmission of personal data to third parties, this is
the defendant who communicates the personal data by
transmission, "in accordance with the legal provisions", according to the defendant.

 

49. In other words, the defendant takes the initiative of the aforementioned processing operations and continues this

initiative, which indicates that it is she who "determines".
 

 

 

                                                

9 Definition of "processing" in Article 4(2) GDPR.

10 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 1/2010 on the concepts of "controller" and "processor", 16 February 2010,
WP 169 (hereafter: Opinion 1/2010 Group 29), 11.

11 The companies approved for this purpose by BIPT can be consulted via: https://www.ibpt.be/operateurs/annonces-
information-services .

 

 

11

 

3.2.2. The notions of "ends and means"
 

50. The notions "ends" and "means" must be examined together in a
inseparable12. In this regard, the degree of
influence on the determination of the "why" (purposes) and the "how" (means) of the processing.
51. Although the supply of directories and directory inquiry services takes place
generally in a fairly similar way, it is not a decisive element in determining whether the
provider of these directories and directory inquiry services has not interpreted the
"why" and "how" differently than other similar service providers and does not
would therefore not be a separate controller.
  

52. The defendant's decision to organize the supply of directories and information services
cited, to design the website according to a specific technique, to display the data on
personal character in these directories and information services in a specific way,
to take a certain responsibility in the exercise of the rights of the persons concerned when
of an opposition to the processing, indicates that the defendant intervenes as responsible
processing for the processing of personal data to which the complainant objects.
 
This analysis is supported by the vision of the Court of Justice to ensure, by a broad definition
of the notion of "responsible", "effective and complete protection" of data subjects13.

 

53. Furthermore, it is significant to consider that the complainant as a data subject has
addressed to the defendant, and not to its own operator, to exercise the rights as described
in the GDPR. The Court of Justice has previously confirmed that in order to analyze the concept of
controller, the conception that the data subject has of the controller
treatment is important. Similarly, the Court confirmed that a person
legal entity which influences, for its own purposes, the processing of personal data
staff can be considered to be responsible for the processing15.

 

54. For all the above reasons, the Litigation Chamber considers that both "the purposes" and

"the means" are only covered by the defendant's (strategic) vision.

 

3.2.3. Consideration in the file during
 

55. The defendant asserts the following in its submissions:

 

 

"There are other directories such as Witte Gids (wittegids.be), infobel.be, de1212.be,
opendi.be, etc. These directories [...] are published by third parties and [the defendant] is not one of them.
responsible."

 
The Litigation Division infers from this that the defendant declares that it is not responsible for the
processing carried out by these third parties.

 

                                                

12 Opinion 1/2010 Group 29, 13.

13 CJEU, Judgment of May 13, 2014, Google Spain SL c. Agencia Española de proteccion de Datos (AEPD) and others, C-131/12; ECLI:
EU:C:2014:317, par. 34; see also the analysis of the scope of the notion in C. DOCKSEY and H. HIJMANS, “The Court of Justice
as a Key Player in Privacy and Data Protection”, European Data Protection Law Review, 2019, Vol. 3, (300)304.

14 CJEU, Judgment of July 10, 2018, Tietosuojavaltuutettu c. Jehovan todistajat – uskonnollinen yhdyskunta, C-25/17,
ECLI:EU:C:2018:551, par. 21.

15 Ibid., para. 68.

 

 

12

 

The Litigation Chamber agrees with the defendant in this reasoning in the sense that it is not
not responsible for processing that relates solely to the offer of directories or services of
telephone information from these third parties.
 

56. Providers of directories and public directory inquiry services, including

the defendant, are themselves data controllers for:

-

-

-

the extraction and consultation of the complainant's personal data from
its operator and then the recording of this personal data;
the provision of such personal data for publication in the
own directories and via own directory inquiry services;
where applicable, the communication of this personal data by transmission
to third party directory and directory inquiry service providers.

  

57. During the transmission of personal data by the defendant to third parties
who themselves determine the purposes of the processing, both the defendant and these third parties
are data controllers for the transmission. In accordance with Article 4, point 2) of the
GDPR, the transmission then splits between communication by transmission by the defendant
on the one hand and the receipt of personal data by third-party directory providers
or directory inquiry services on the other hand.
 

 

58. In fact, several controllers may interact in the context of a processing operation.
without necessarily determining together the ends and the means 16. Those responsible for the
processing have their own defined purpose with regard to this transmission. In
In this case, it is not a question of joint controllers, but of a situation
with separate data controllers.
 

 

59. The role and responsibilities of the data controller are particularly important for

data subjects when exercising their rights, as set out in the GDPR18.
In this case, there are several data controllers who process the same data at different times.
personal nature of the persons concerned, such as the complainant, in the context of the offer
directories and directory inquiry services. This can be illustrated by means of the
following table:

 

1. Telenet as operator

2. The defendant as
directory provider and
intelligence services
telephone

Telenet acts as responsible for the
processing. Personal data
treated in this context are the name, the
first name, postal address and telephone number
Complainant's phone.
as long as
The defendant
controller. The data to
personal character treated in this context

intervenes in

                                                

16 According to the analogous reasoning regarding joint controllers in Regulation (EU) 2018/1725:
European Data Protection Supervisor, Guidelines on the concepts of controller, processor and joint controllership under
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, 7 November 2019, 24.

17 Regarding the distinction of processing and joint controllers, see CJEU, Judgment of 5 June 2018,
Unabhängiges Landeszentrum für Datenschutz Schleswig-Holstein c. Wirtschaftsakademie Schleswig-Holstein GmbH, C-210/16,
ECLI:EU:C:388.

18 See also: Opinion 1/2010 Group 29, 2.

 

 



3. Kapitol, FCR Media and European
Directory Assistance as
directory providers and
intelligence services
telephone

13

are the surname, first name, postal address and
Complainant's telephone number.
All legal persons mentioned
in the left column act as
as separate controllers. The
personal data processed in this
context are surname, first name, address
postal address and telephone number of the complainant.

 
 
3.3. Consent and lawfulness of processing (article 12 of the e-Privacy Directive

and Article 133 of the LCE; Article 6 juncto Article 7 GDPR)

3.3.1. The impact of the e-Privacy Directive and national implementing provisions as lex

specialis on the General Data Protection Regulation as lex generalis

 
60. The defendant argues that the public availability of personal data
was again possible, because in accordance with Articles 45 and 46 of the LCE, the complainant should have
contact your own operator. According to the defendant, these provisions find their
origin in the e-Privacy Directive and this therefore constitutes, according to it, a lex specialis on the
lex generalis of the GDPR. The plaintiff's request to the defendant to no longer publish its data
or make them available in directories or directory inquiry services
should, according to the defendant, be considered as a request in accordance with Article 16
of the GDPR.
 

61. The defendant refers in this context to an opinion of the European Committee for the Protection of
data on the interaction between the e-Privacy Directive and the GDPR, an opinion relating in particular to
the powers, tasks and competences of data protection authorities. The
defendant considers that a passage of this opinion is relevant in this context and agrees in its
conclusions the following free translation of this passage:19

 

“Where there are specific provisions governing a processing activity or a group
specific processing activities, the specific provisions should be applied (lex
specialis), in all other cases (i.e. where there are no special provisions
governing a given processing activity or group of processing activities), the
general rule is applied (lex generalis)." 20
 

62. In this context, the Litigation Chamber wishes to draw attention to Article 95 of the GDPR, wording

as following :
 

"This Regulation does not impose any additional obligations on natural persons
or morality as to the processing[s] in the context of the provision of
electronic communications accessible to the public on public networks of
communications in the Union with regard to the aspects for which they are subject

                                                

19 According to Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR, in particular regarding the competence,
tasks and powers of data protection authorities, 12 March 2019, Opinion of the European Data Protection Board, para. 45,
available through this
: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/stanovisko-vyboru-cl-64/opinion-52019-
interplay-between-eprivacy_en.

link

20 Ibid., para. 45.

 

 

14

 

to specific obligations with the same objective set out in Directive 2002/58/EC."
 

63. In the parliamentary works of the LCE, it is stated that the provisions relating to the
consent to include subscriber data in directories and services
telephone inquiries implement article 12 of the e-Privacy Directive.21

 
64. In this context, the Litigation Division draws attention to Article 12, § 2 of the Directive

e-Privacy. This article is worded as follows:
 

to have]

figure

[must

subscribers

of
"the
decide whether the personal data concerning them, and which of these data,
must
in
 the extent to which this data is relevant to the function of the directory in question
as established by the directory provider. [Member States] shall also
so that subscribers can verify, correct or delete this data.”
 

possibility

phone book

public,

in

a

the

 

65. In the Belgian legal order, the obligation of consent set out in Article 12 of the e-Directive
Privacy is transposed in the current article 133, § 1 of the LCE. Consent regarding the
publication of the subscriber's personal data is specified in two questions
formulated by the national legislator. Regarding the deletion of personal data
personnel at the request of the subscriber, article 133, § 2, second paragraph of the LCE specifies that this
is carried out "according to the procedures and under the conditions laid down by the King". So far, none
condition of this type has been fixed by the King.
 

66. Be that as it may, the Litigation Chamber emphasizes that the requirements relating to the consent
imposed by the GDPR are not considered "additional obligations", but
rather as essential prerequisites for lawful processing. Group 29, as
as the legal predecessor of the European Data Protection Board, confirmed this and
further states:

 
“Thus the conditions for obtaining valid consent established by the GDPR are
applicable in situations falling within the scope of the Privacy Directive
and electronic communications". 22
 

67. This means that the lawfulness of processing based on consent, as provided for in the
provisions of the e-Privacy Directive, must always be assessed in the light of Article 6,
paragraph 1 juncto article 7 of the GDPR, therefore also when this consent takes place
in accordance with article 133, § 1 of the LCE.
 

68. The requirement of the consent of the person concerned as well as the possibility for the person
concerned to have their personal data deleted are indeed governed in a manner
general in the e-Privacy Directive. Considering that as a national implementation of this Directive,
however, the LCE does not regulate the concrete methods of withdrawal of consent, it is appropriate for
to do so, examine the provisions of the GDPR. There are no "specific obligations"

                                                

21 Doc. Speak. Chamber, DOC 51-1425/001, 83: "Article 142 establishes, in accordance with Article 12 of the Privacy Directive, a
amended regime, applicable to directory providers [...]. As soon as the subscriber is informed of all relevant aspects of
the registration, only the data which the subscriber has made known that they could appear in the directory or the service of
information in question, may actually appear in the directory or the information service."

22 Group 29, Guidelines on consent within the meaning of Regulation 2016/679, WP 259 Rev01, 10 April 2018, 4.

 

 

15

 

for processing operations relating to the deletion of personal data from
directories after withdrawal of consent. In accordance with Article 95 of the GDPR, such
"additional obligations" are, however, required to make the lex specialis take precedence over the
GDPR provisions. This means that - insofar as there is no specific regulation,
as is the case for the granting of consent in article 133 of the LCE - the provisions of the
GDPR are fully applicable to the processing in this file.

 
3.3.2. The disputed processing on the basis of consent and the withdrawal of this consent

 

69. According to the analysis of the Litigation Chamber, the request made by the plaintiff on January 13
2019 via the online form of the defendant's electronic directory, with the request for
"not to include [a telephone number] in the Witte Gids, on 1207.be, ..." is sufficient
clear so that it is understood that the complainant does not want his telephone number
be published in any directory or directory inquiry service. In
in other words, the complainant withdraws the consent he had given to his operator
in accordance with Article 133, § 1 of the LCE and Article 6, paragraph 1 j° Article 7 of the GDPR,
and expresses this wish to the defendant, who is in this context responsible for the
treatment which must respond to the complainant's requests. This would also be the case if the complainant
had only expressed consent to the operator and if the defendant had
lawfully carried out the processing of the complainant's personal data on the basis of
this consent with the operator.
 

70. In the Proposed Fine Reaction Form, the Respondent states:

 

“As explained in detail in the conclusions [of the defendant] and during the hearing
before the Litigation Chamber, the processing in question only resumed after
the communication of a code "to be published" by the complainant's operator. In other words, [the
defendant] republished the complainant's number only because new
information had come from the operator (not from [the defendant]) indicating that the
number should be made publicly available".

 
71. The "new information" to which the defendant refers relates to the new number
telephone number of the plaintiff, which he had clearly communicated to the defendant during his
first request of January 13, 2019. It was therefore clear to the defendant from the 13
January 2019 that the request for publication ban related to the new telephone number. The
defendant had sufficient information at its disposal to conclude that the plaintiff
had withdrawn its consent to the publication of this new telephone number (as
"new information"), given that the defendant relied precisely on this consent to
publication of this new information.
 

72. Contrary to what the Respondent maintains, the Complainant's request to the Respondent
was not an exercise of the right of rectification provided for in Article 16 of the GDPR, but rather the withdrawal
consent pursuant to Article 6(1) j° Article 7(3) GDPR.
Regardless of the legally inaccurate view, maintaining the reasoning of the
defendant means, from a practical point of view, that whenever its operator
transmits an update of the subscriber data to the defendant, the plaintiff must send a
new request for rectification to the defendant. This does not meet the expectations of
complainant in the context of the management and control of his personal data. In

 

 

16

 

In addition, the Litigation Chamber has already drawn attention above to the importance of the perception
of the complainant regarding the controllers.

 
73. The publication or making available of personal data in directories or
via directory inquiry services is not lawful in accordance with Article 6,
paragraph 1 j° article 7 of the GDPR when the consent with regard to the data controller
treatment had already been withdrawn. Article 7, paragraph 3 of the GDPR specifies that any
data subject may withdraw consent at any time, which was done in this case
via the email sent by the plaintiff to the defendant on January 13, 2019. This does not compromise
the lawfulness of the processing based on the consent made before the withdrawal of this consent. 23

 

74. Moreover, the defendant itself seems to confirm the characterization of the claim of the

plaintiff as withdrawal of consent when she declares August 14, 2019 via email
of an employee:
 

"[...] As requested, we have deleted your entry so that your data (number
telephone number, name and address) will no longer be used for directories or
telephone information [...].
 

 

This message expresses no reservations as to the complainant's request for deletion of any
directory or directory inquiry service previously expressed on the same day and
contradicts the conclusions of the defendant, in which it states that the
new public availability of personal data of January 31, 2019 does not
cannot be blamed for it, "even if it was in contradiction with a previous request from the
complainant". For this reason, a request for the exercise of the right in accordance with Article 16 of the GDPR
therefore cannot be relied upon.
 

75. With regard to the period following the withdrawal of consent, the defendant states in

his conclusions:
 

 

"On January 31, 2019 [the defendant] received from [Y] as Operator, within the framework of a
routine communication of the Contact Details of its Subscribers, new Contact Details of the
Complainant. This information from the Operator indicated that the Contact Details of the Complainant did not
should not be considered secret (“NNNNN”).
 

The defendant states that since the information of the plaintiff's operator was
processed automatically, the personal data of the complainant were again
made publicly available.

 
76. The complainant's personal data was again published and made available
in directories and directory inquiry services by the defendant, after
the withdrawal of consent by the plaintiff towards the defendant in accordance with Article 7,
paragraph 3 of the GDPR. Given that the initial processing took place on the basis of consent
in accordance with article 133 of the LCE and article 6, paragraph 1 j° article 7 of the GDPR, the
withdrawal of this consent means ipso facto that further processing - contrary to the withdrawal of

                                                

23 Article 17(3) GDPR.

 

 

17

 

consent - is unlawful and therefore constitutes a violation of Article 6, paragraph 1 j° Article 7
of the GDPR.

 
3.4. Withdrawal of consent and liability of the defendant for treatments
later on the basis of the initial consent with other controllers of the
processing (respectively Article 7, Article 24 and Article 5, paragraph 2 of the GDPR)
 

77. The e-Privacy Directive and the provisions transposing it into national law do not provide for
no way that the withdrawal of consent can only take place with respect to the operator to which
consent has been given. In this sense, the defendant must therefore respect its obligations
legal as controller, in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.
 

78. In an e-mail of January 28, 2019, the defendant asserts to the complainant:

 
"[…] The number [...] is not currently included in the Gids edition. The information is not
also not available from information (1207) or on the website (1207.be).)
[…]”
 

The finding that the defendant also mentions the "Gids", meaning by that the Witte
Gids of FCR Media, demonstrates that the defendant had also taken initiatives to prevent
the publication of personal data in this electronic directory.
 

79. The requirement of consent for the lawfulness of processing is anchored in the law and is therefore
inseparable from these treatments. This implies that the plaintiff's wish towards the defendant
to no longer appear in directories or telephone information services entails
an obligation for the defendant, after the request made by the plaintiff pursuant
of Article 7(3) GDPR to withdraw consent.
 

80. This obligation implies that the defendant must take organizational and
appropriate techniques so that the complainant's withdrawal of consent is also notified to
the complainant's operator, on the one hand, so that this operator can take the necessary measures
for the withdrawal of consent to have effect for all publications in the
directories and the availability via telephone information services, and to
third-party controllers on the other hand who, as providers of directories and
telephone information services, have received the personal data from
of the defendant. This is a fortiori the case when the defendant itself confirms to the plaintiff
that his personal data will no longer be published by these third-party providers, being
given that the defendant thus explicitly undertakes to respect this responsibility.

 

 

81. Where there are several separate controllers, where each carries out processing
for its part on the basis of the same consent, namely a consent given by the
data subject to one or more of these controllers, it is sufficient to withdraw this
consent for the data subject to contact one of the controllers
carrying out processing on the basis of the consent given by the data subject. In this
meaning, one can read in Article 24 (considered in this case together with Articles 6 and 7) of the
GDPR, a one-stop-shop principle, according to which the data subject should only contact
a single controller, following which the controller in question is obliged
to ensure that the request of the data subject within the meaning of the GDPR takes effect.

 

 

 



18

82. Liability under Article 5(2) and Article 24 GDPR involves,
within the meaning of the Litigation Chamber, that the controller takes the measures
necessary technical and organizational measures, in order to ensure that the person concerned does not
must
separate.
 

responsible

processing

address

each

not

from

at

83. The aforementioned obligation falls under the proper execution of the liability of the defendant,
in accordance with Art. 5(2) and Art. 24 GDPR. It does not remove the
liability of third-party directories and directory inquiry services with respect to
relates to the processing carried out under their responsibility, but simply gives an
proper and adequate interpretation of the defendant's liability for the
processing,
complainant.
 

wait for it

like

can

the

84. This is part of the broad interpretation of the concept of responsibility for the processing
(Article 4, point 7) of the GDPR) by the Court of Justice. Thus, it is not necessary that each
joint controller is involved in each subsequent processing of data to
personal character to be considered a controller for the processing
initial. A fortiori, the defendant, as data controller, is indeed responsible for the
processing that it carries out separately, for which an incomplete answer or an absence
response to a request from a data subject has resulted in processing
unlawful processing of the personal data of this data subject by persons responsible for the
third-party processing.
 

85. All this implies that the Respondent is in violation of Article 24 and Article 5,
paragraph 2 of the GDPR when it does not take the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to inform third-party controllers of the withdrawal of consent by the
complainant pursuant to Article 6 juncto Article 7 of the GDPR, with the effect that the processing
by these third-party controllers become unlawful.
 

3.5. Transparency of information and communications and methods of exercise

the rights of the data subject (article 12juncto article 13 of the GDPR)

 

86. Article 12, paragraph 1 of the GDPR provides the following:

 
“The data controller shall take appropriate measures to provide any information
referred to in Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR to the data subject in a concise manner,
transparent, understandable and easily accessible, in clear and simple terms [...]"
 

87. Article

13,

paragraph

1

from

GDPR

has

this

Who

follows

:

 

"Where personal data relating to a data subject is
collected from this person, the data controller provides him, at the time when
data in question are obtained, all of the following information: [...]
c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as
than
[…]”
 (underlining of the Litigation Chamber)
 

processing

legal

based

from

the

 

88. When, in its conclusions for the Litigation Chamber, the defendant states that as
subscriber to a telephone service accessible to the public, the complainant must contact the operator
if he does not wish (or no longer) to appear in a directory, the defendant not only fails to
its obligations as data controller, but it also shows that the

 

 

19

 

previous information that she provided vis-à-vis the complainant should be considered as
erroneous - or at least as non-transparent.
 

89. The legal basis of the processing concerns the consent given to the operator of the
plaintiff, pursuant to Article 133, § 1 of the LCE. As mentioned above, the withdrawal of
this consent is not concretely regulated by the national legislator and it is appropriate for this
respect to turn to the provisions of the GDPR.

 

90. The Litigation Chamber considers that the defendant does not provide transparent information
with regard to the complainant on the legal basis of the processing only when it indicates
clear that consent for processing has been withdrawn at the complainant's request
and that consequently, the personal data appearing in the directories and
telephone information services of third-party controllers will also be
removed.
 

91. It is apparent from the file that collaborators of the defendant indicate that not
only the defendant would not publish or take over the personal data
personnel in its directory and directory inquiry service, but that it
would also pass on to other directory and information service providers
telephones the request not to publish the personal data in their
directory(s) and/or directory inquiry service(s).
 

92. On August 14, 2019, for example, an employee of the defendant wrote:

 

 

“Through monthly updates, they [directories and information services
third-party telephone numbers] will also be informed of your request to no longer use your
data."

93. This information does not correspond to the legal vision of the defendant which it sets out

in its findings.
 

94. The defendant gave the plaintiff the impression that it could prevent any publication, including
included in directories and third-party directory inquiry services. So although
in its submissions to the Litigation Chamber, the defendant objects that it is not
not responsible for other directory and information service providers
telephone calls, she provides other information about the complainant and declares that she
will indeed take steps to (have) delete the personal data
from third-party controllers. In addition, in its email of January 28, 2019, the
respondent does not ask the complainant any additional questions.

 

95. This shows that the information relating to the basis of lawfulness for the publication of the data to
personal character on the one hand and the indication to directories and to services of
third-party telephone information that personal data could not be
published on the other hand, were not transparent within the meaning of Article 12(1) GDPR.
 

96. At no time was the complainant informed that he should turn to his own operator in order to
that his needs can best be met, as the defendant presupposes in
its findings. The defendant further states in its own pleadings that it qualifies the
request of the complainant not to publish his personal data in his own
directories and its own information services of the right of rectification (article 16 of the GDPR).

 

 

20

 

 

97. If the right of rectification were indeed applicable in the present context, which is not
not the case, the defendant should have informed the complainant that the technical organization at the
within the industry would result in personal data being
even published if the defendant received from the operator a new signal (‘NNNNN’) for the
publication of personal data in directories and information services
telephone information. This indicates that the exercise of the complainant's rights has not been
sufficiently facilitated within the meaning of Article 12(2) of the GDPR, although the Chamber
Litigation has already pointed out that in this case, the right of rectification does not apply, since it
this is the withdrawal of consent (see above, section 3.3.).

 

 

3.6. Right to erasure (Article 17 GDPR)

 

 

98. In the complaint lodged with the Data Protection Authority, the complainant requests that
his personal data are "deleted", not only in directories and
defendant's telephone information services, but also "on Facebook, on
Google and all other possible search engines.
 

99. For the sake of completeness, it should be mentioned that this extended request was not
formulated as it was previously by the plaintiff vis-à-vis the defendant. Only the
publication and transfer of personal data have been objected to,
no request for complete deletion of personal data from the
defendant was formulated.

100.

 
Article 133 of the LCE, which implements in Belgian national law Article 12 of the e-Directive
Privacy, provides in general terms in its second paragraph that any subscriber has the
right "to have corrected or deleted free of charge from the directory or the
telephone information, personal data concerning him".

from

Mon

101.

 
Since this provision only governs the deletion of personal data in cases where
In general terms, it is worth considering Article 17(1) of the GDPR, which provides what
follows:
 
"The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller the erasure, in
as soon as possible, of personal data concerning him and the person responsible for the
processing has the obligation to erase this personal data as soon as possible,
when
:
[...]
b) the data subject withdraws the consent on which the processing is based,
pursuant to Article 6(1)(a) [...] and there is no other basis
legal
processing"
 
As the Litigation Chamber had already noted previously, the plaintiff withdrew his
consent and therefore Article 17(1) of the GDPR applies following the request
of the complainant.
 
103.

Article 17, paragraph 2 of the GDPR provides that when he has made public the data to
personal nature and that he is obliged to erase them in accordance with the request of the person
concerned, the controller must take reasonable measures, including

applies

next

patterns

102.

to

 

 

 

21

 

technical to "inform the data controllers who process this personal data
personal that the data subject has requested erasure by those controllers
any link to such personal data, or any copy or reproduction thereof
this."
 
104.

The publication of personal data on the Internet pages of the defendant
may result in the creation of hyperlinks for search engines with references to or
even the complete copy of the personal data published on the Internet pages of the
defendant. In this context, the defendant has the responsibility to have the links removed,
so that the plaintiff's request is duly satisfied24.

 
105.

In its communication of August 14, 2019, the Respondent states to the Complainant itself
that it will take steps to remove the links through Google. It is incumbent on the defendant
to ensure the follow-up of these measures so that the request of the complainant can be duly
met. If the defendant fails to contact another data controller or
if the other controller does not respond satisfactorily to the request, it must
communicate in this respect in a transparent manner with the person concerned, so that the latter
ci can then contact this other data controller in order to inform him of his
request.

 

 

3.7. Lawfulness of the transmission of personal data to
third-party directory and information service providers
telephone
GDPR)
 
The Litigation Chamber wishes to express itself on the legality of the transmission of data to
personal character of the plaintiff by the defendant to directories and
third-party telephone information, since the defendant is not the plaintiff's operator.
On August 14, 2019, an employee of the defendant wrote:
 

(item

106.

from

6

"[...] In accordance with the legal provisions, your data has also been transmitted to
other directories or directory inquiry services that have requested [the
defendant] the provision of subscriber data, namely www.wittegids.be,
www.infobel.com, www.de1212.be and www.opendi.be. Through updates
monthly, they will also be informed of your request to no longer use your data
[...]".

Article 6, paragraph 1 of the GDPR gives an overview of the possible grounds for processing

the basis of which

treatments may have

way place

lawful.

To collect the personal data of data subjects, such as the
complainant, in a directory or directory inquiry service, consent is
requested by the operator, as set out in Article 133, § 1 of the LCE. The transmission
subsequent personal data is based on this consent to the operator.
 
109.

In accordance with Article 45, § 2 and Article 46, § 2 of the LCE, it is the responsibility of the operator to
provide "subscriber data" respectively to directories and information services

 
107.

on
 
108.

                                                

24 See here also the issue of joint controllers.

 

 



telephone. In the present case, only Telenet, as the complainant's operator, was therefore
obliged, in accordance with Article 45, § 2 and Article 46, § 2 of the LCE, to transmit the data
of a personal nature to the defendant and to other providers of directories or services of
telephone information.

22

110.

 
Transmission of personal data by the operator to suppliers
directories and directory inquiry services is therefore specifically governed in the
LCE as an execution of the e-Privacy Directive (lex specialis). The transmission of data to
personal character by suppliers of such directories and information services to
providers of directories and similar information services is not governed by the ECA,
and for the lawfulness of this processing, it is therefore necessary to examine the GDPR, as lex generalis.
More specifically, it is necessary to examine whether these transmissions are lawful under Article 6,
paragraph 1 of the GDPR.
 
111.

In the present case, the defendant proceeded to the transmission of personal data
Complainant staff to third-party directory and information service providers
telephone calls when it is not the operator of the data subject whose data to
personal character are transmitted. During the hearing, the defendant draws attention to the
task that BIPT would have entrusted to him in this matter, namely the task of commercial manager
central subscriber data. According to the defendant, this could be considered as a
binding interpretation of the LCE by BIPT or recognition of the task of the
defendant consisting in transmitting the subscriber data in the context of the public interest.

112.

 
The Litigation Chamber notes in particular that a BIPT document, submitted by the
defendant during the hearing, mentions that there is no need for a "[central] database
of subscriber data" since "Belgacom already provides these services on a commercial basis".
In another BIPT document, it is stated that "if the [operators] also have the
subscriber data of third-party companies, these are also transmitted [...]" as long as there is
initial consent of the person concerned to enter their personal data
in a directory or a telephone information service, and as long as this use remains
limited to offering directories and similar services.25
 
113.

The Litigation Chamber notes, however, that there is no basis in the legislation
allowing the defendant, as a simple provider of directories and services to
telephone information, to transfer personal data to other
providers of directories and directory inquiry services. The designation of the
defendant as the central manager of subscriber data finds no basis
legitimate in the provisions of the LCE. These provisions are in fact based on the information
provided by operators.

114.

 
The fact that the e-Privacy Directive and its national implementing provisions presuppose that
the operators obtain explicit consent from the data subjects for a
publication of their "subscriber data" in directories and information services
telephone calls indicates that subsequent transfers, after consent to the operator, will not
may a fortiori not take place without the explicit consent of the data subject or a
legal basis. complementary.

                                                

25 BIPT, Update of the BIPT opinion of 18 February 2009 on the determination and conditions for making available
basic identification data by telephone service providers to directory publishers and service providers
intelligence services, September 11, 2017, 8.

 

 

23

 

115.

 
This can also be read in articles 45, § 4 and 46, § 4 of the LCE, respectively for
directories and directory inquiry services. Providers of such services
"may only use the data communicated [by the operators] for the purpose of providing
of a [directory] [telephone directory inquiry service]. In other words, providers
directories and directory inquiry services cannot use the data
personal data for another purpose, namely the transmission of this personal data
personal to third-party providers of directories and similar services.

116.

 
Transmission of personal data for publication in directories
and directory inquiry services is in fact reserved for operators, in
application respectively of Article 45, § 2 and Article 46, § 2 of the LCE:

 “People who provide public telephone services to subscribers put the
necessary subscriber data available to persons who have made a declaration
in accordance with § 1, under technical, financial and commercial conditions
fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory.”
 

117. In the present case, the defendant does not intervene as an operator, but simply as a
as a supplier of directories and directory inquiry services. She can not
transmit personal data to directories and information services
third-party telephones in the same way as operators, since this transmission is a
mission conferred solely on operators by the national legislator.
 
118.

It is true that the consent for transmission by the operator referred to in Article 12, paragraph
2 of the e-Privacy Directive relates to the purpose of the publication of personal data
and not on the identity of a particular directory provider26. In this sense, the person concerned
cannot diversify the consent it gives to its operator. The simple observation
whether personal data may or may not be transmitted by the operator is not
moreover not relevant in the present context, given that in this aspect, the Litigation Chamber
examines the transmission of personal data of data subjects who are not
not subscribed to the defendant.

 
119.

In view of the foregoing, the Litigation Division finds that the defendant does not
does not process personal data lawfully when, in its capacity as supplier
directories and directory inquiry services, it transfers, without being at the same
time the operator of the persons concerned, personal data to other
directory and directory inquiry service providers, which are
third-party controllers. This constitutes a violation of Article 6(1) GDPR.

 

 

 

 

                                                

26 Deutsche Telekom, point 61.

 

 



4. GDPR Violations and Complainant Claims

  

 
120.

The Litigation Chamber considers that the violations of the following provisions by the

defendant are proven:

24

at.

b.

vs.

d.

Article 6 of the GDPR j° Article 7 of the GDPR, given that the defendant continued to
publish and make available the complainant's personal data
respectively in directories and information services
telephone calls, after the withdrawal of the complainant's consent, with the effect
that the further processing by the defendant had become unlawful;
Article 6 of the GDPR, since the defendant unlawfully transfers data
of a personal nature to other providers of directories and
telephone information, without being able to indicate a legal basis
valid for the lawfulness of this transfer as data processing to
personal character;
Article 12 j° Article 13 of the GDPR since no transparent information
is provided by the defendant with regard to the plaintiff and given that the defendant does not
does not sufficiently facilitate the exercise of the rights of the data subject;
Article 24 and Article 5, paragraph 2 of the GDPR, since the defendant does not fulfill
not its obligations and does not assume its responsibilities as responsible for the
processing by taking appropriate technical and organizational measures so that
the processing is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, which implies that
the complainant's operator is informed of the withdrawal of consent and that the providers
third-party directories and directory inquiry services to which the
defendant has transmitted the personal data to be informed of the withdrawal of the
consent.
 

121.

The Litigation Chamber considers that it is appropriate to order the compliance of the processing
with the provisions of the GDPR in accordance with Article 58(2)(d) GDPR and
article 100, § 1, 9° of the LCA, as well as to impose, in addition to this corrective measure, a fine
administrative (article 83, paragraph 2 of the GDPR, article 100, § 1, 13° of the LCA and article 101
of the ACL).

 
122.

motivates
 

Given Article 83 of the GDPR and the case law of the Market Court, the Litigation Chamber
concrete.:

so

administration

taxation

sanction

of one

at. The seriousness of the offence:

 

  
 

123.

the reasoning set out above demonstrates the seriousness of the offence. As a major player
of the telecommunications sector, the defendant has a role of example and must organize its
technical and organizational measures in such a way that the provisions of the GDPR and the
national implementing provisions can be properly complied with. Not only
the complainant's objection was not adequately followed up, but the communication and
the defendant's information to the complainant lacked transparency and were even
erroneous.
 
124.

The concrete negative consequence (‘risk’) for the complainant is the availability of his
personal data in a way that he does not wish and which may give rise to
further processing (for example in the context of direct marketing actions) that the complainant

 

 



25

this

him

a

Who

no

prejudice

causes

desirable,

judge
important.
The fact that in its defence, the defendant defers its liability as responsible for the
processing on the complainant's operator, without any relevant legal basis, is even more
regrettable
here.
 
125.

With regard to the unlawful transmission of personal data to other
providers of directories and directory inquiry services, the Chamber
Contentitieuse obviously also takes into account the fact that in its opinions and public communications
(public), BIPT did not qualify the transmission as contrary to the legislation on the protection
personal data. In this sense, the defendant's legitimate expectation in the
opinions, communications and documents of a public institution is also taken into account.
account in the deliberation and establishment of the sanction. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes
Admittedly, compliance with the provisions of the GDPR is a responsibility of the person responsible for the
defendant.
processing,
 

the occurrence

in

the

b. The duration of the infringement:

 
126.

at

the

day

following

given

again

As appears from the conclusions of the defendant, it is following a (technical) action of the
31 January 2019 that the personal data has been made available within the
electronic directories and via the information services of the defendant. It happened
continued until the plaintiff's new opposition request on August 14, 2019, on which the
defendant
same.
 
127.

The defendant states, however, that the complainant must contact his operator if he does not
does not (or no longer) wish to appear in a directory. In the event of a new signal from the operator at the
defendant, in contradiction to the plaintiff's previous objections, this
means that a publication can again take place, since in its conclusions, the defendant
continues to consider the complainant's request as an exercise of the right of rectification. If the
Litigation Chamber does not sanction violations, so the violation may be repeated
at any time in the future when such update is communicated to the defendant.
 
128.

As regards the transmission of personal data by the defendant to
third-party providers of directories and directory inquiry services, the Chamber
Litigation takes note of the relevant elements that the defendant invokes in its form
response to a proposed fine. The defendant indicates therein in particular that the
system has been developed over the years at the sectoral level and in consultation with the actors at
within public authorities. The defendant emphasizes in particular the difficulty of modifying the
technical process underlying the transmission.
 
129.

The Litigation Chamber recognizes the societal interest of directories and search services.
telephone information, but any processing in this context must take place
in accordance with the legislation in force. The Litigation Chamber therefore considers that it is appropriate
to grant a period during which the defendant, and by association all the actors concerned
of the sector, may take the necessary measures to ensure that the transmission as
processing of personal data can take place in accordance with the provisions
of the GDPR, so that any processing in this context can take place lawfully. Saw the
complexity of the measures to be taken and the involvement of several players, including BIPT, the Chamber
Litigation considers it reasonable to grant a grace period of one year.

  

 

 



 
 

vs. The deterrent effect necessary to prevent further

offences:

 

26

130.

Given the importance of the amount of personal data processed by the defendant and
the low priority that the defendant could give to the follow-up and the measures resulting from the
finding of a violation, the Litigation Chamber deems it necessary to order and formulate
a sufficiently high administrative fine as well as other sanctions and measures.
 
131.

Since the technical and organizational measures to be taken require the
necessary investments, the Litigation Chamber judges that it is possible that in the event of a sanction
too light, the defendant accepts the risk of being subjected in the future to decisions establishing
offenses with a limited penalty. This would mean that not only in the present
case, but also in other cases relating to compliance with the provisions of the GDPR,
violations could continue to occur. This is why a certain severity of the sanction
is considered, especially given the size of the company.
 
132.

For the Litigation Chamber, an administrative fine of EUR 20,000 is an amount
sufficiently dissuasive to prevent other violations, given its relative importance compared to
to the company's turnover.

 

 
133.

The Litigation Chamber draws attention to the fact that the other criteria of article 83.2
of the GDPR are not, in this case, likely to lead to an administrative fine other than
that defined by the Litigation Chamber in the context of this decision.

 

 

5. The pseudonymization of this decision

 
 
134.

 

The Litigation Division finds that the defendant was negligent, but did not
not found in this case of gross negligence concerning the transmission of personal data
personnel to third-party directory and directory inquiry service providers.
It is also hardly possible to speak of gross negligence in the context of further processing.
personal data and lack of information of the complainant, given that the
nature of the processing is not particularly sensitive and that the number of people
concerned is limited. Consequently, negligence on the part of the defendant does not constitute
not in itself a reason to publish the defendant's identification data.
 
135.

Nevertheless, it is in the public interest to publish this decision, since the violations
concrete facts that concern only the complainant are part of and result from a
larger set of structural violations that have come to light in the present
case. Indeed, in the absence of a legal basis for the transmission of personal data
personal, and where such processing appears to be of a structural nature, it is in the public interest
to make these practices and violations known to the outside world, given the large number of people
concerned by definition in this context.

136.

 
Given that the defendant plays a central role in the processing within the framework of the
transmission of personal data with a view to their publication in directories and
directory inquiry services in Belgium, it is therefore not desirable and not
possible to omit its identifiers. This would imply too much intervention in the

 

 

27

 

presentation of facts and motivation, to the point that it would become impossible for a reader
external to understand the motivation behind this decision. Given the specificity of the facts, the
re-identification is indeed very likely.

 
137.

Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber
Litigation, in accordance with Article 100, § 1, 16° of the LCA, this decision is published
on the website of the Data Protection Authority, mentioning the data
of identification of the defendant, and this because of the specificity and the public interest that
presents the present decision, but omitting the identification data of the complainant, since
these are neither necessary nor relevant to the publication of this
decision.

 

 

FOR THESE REASONS,
 
the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:
 

at. to order the defendant, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2, point d)
of the GDPR and Article 100, § 1, 9° of the ACL To take appropriate action and
immediately upon withdrawal of consent by the complainant and thus, to make the data available
personal character of the complainant in accordance with Article 6j°Article 7 of the GDPR;

b. to call the defendant to order, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2,
point b) of the GDPR and article 100, § 1, 5° of the LCA, for having provided the complainant
information lacking transparency and for not having sufficiently facilitated
the exercise of the rights of the complainant, in accordance respectively with Article 12,
paragraphs 1 and 2 of the GDPR;

vs. to call the defendant to order, in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2, point
b) of the GDPR and in Article 100, § 1, 5° of the LCA, for having breached its obligations
and its responsibilities as controller, in accordance with Article
24 GDPR, to take appropriate technical and organizational measures to
ensure that the processing it carries out complies with the GDPR;

d. to order the defendant, pursuant to Article 58(2)(c) of the
GDPR and Article 100, § 1, 6° of the LCA, to comply with the requests of the
data subject to exercise their right to erasure of the data, within a period
one month from the notification of this decision;

e. to prohibit the defendant, pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, point f) of the GDPR
and article 100, § 1, 8° of the LCA, to continue the processing by which it
unlawfully transmits (Article 6 of the GDPR) personal data to
third-party providers of directories and directory inquiry services, when they
simply obtained this data as a provider of directories and services of
telephone information, with a grace period of one year from the date of
notification of the decision, grace period during which the transmission as
that treatment may continue in order to give the defendant the opportunity, and by
association with the sector, to develop a new system in accordance with the law to facilitate
the transmission  ; the defendant is required to inform the Litigation Chamber of the
changes in this respect within one year of the notification of the
this decision;

 

 

28

 

f. pursuant to Article 83 of the GDPR and Articles 100, § 1, 13° and 101 of the LCA,
to impose on the defendant an administrative fine of 20,000 euros for violation
of Articles 6, 7 and 12 of the GDPR.

 
 
 
Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of
thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of
given as defendant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hielke Hijmans
President of the Litigation Chamber

 

 

