THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 December 17, 2021

 Data protection and digitization in the new

Traffic light coalition agreement

privacy

LfDI Dr. Stefan Brink: “The traffic light coalition has
performed,
digitalization
to link together. That's a good thing, because both
heard
together. Citizens should from the
Digitization can benefit without sacrificing their civil rights
having to disclose. Now it comes down to that
these plans can also be implemented quickly.”

and

Data protection and digitization belong and only work
together - this is a formative guiding principle of the LfDI Baden-
Württemberg for the day-to-day work of his authority. the
traffic light coalition
in Berlin, according to the
coalition agreement now also made digitization
to be understood as a central task for the future. At the same time supports
and strengthens civil rights in many places
informational self-determination, data protection, as well as
the right to know what authorities know, i.e. they
Freedom of Information. Both have not only immediate
Effects at the federal level, but strengthens at the same time
the work of state officials
for privacy and
Freedom of Information.

The new federal government describes the data protection
Basic Regulation (DS-GVO) as a successful European

- 2 -

to

decide,

Standard: Respect for every single citizen and his
Autonomy, beyond his very personal
information
a 
self-determined
European value with
the
In particular, the federal government wants the possibilities
open up which the DS-GVO for research and which
business use of personal data
offers. Both
the
data protection officers of the countries are entrusted.

in the meantime
radiance.

are tasks which

more global

also

is

also

will

state representative

Farther
the
unrestricted for the supervision of private and public
Be responsible for positions in the German states and
In this way, citizens, associations,
Initiatives, companies and public bodies advise and
work towards compliance with the GDPR. various
raised demands for a centralization of the
data protection supervision
one
Federal authorities are off the table.

company

above

at

The federal government supports the data protection officers
by using the joint
states and the federal government,
data protection conference,
the
more informal
merger met, wants to institutionalize more (p. 17
in the coalition agreement).
“Thus, the exchange of the
Data protection officers simpler, more direct, more reliable and more relevant
– that’s good news,” emphasizes LfDI Brink.

so far

as

The coalition agreement also pays tribute to numerous
Represent the high value of civil rights and strengthens the
informational self-determination: standards such as the
consistent end-to-end encryption (p. 31).
more important in the future.

until

the end at the latest

The coalition agreement draws a clear stance
Safety laws out: The safety laws will
evaluated,
one
Monitoring accounts created (p. 108), which the
actual burden on citizens by all
surveillance measures into account. If the
Federal laws are reviewed, of course, this also has
Impact on country safety laws.

2023 will

- 3 -

IT security is being substantially strengthened in the
Future strategy of the federal government, the use of state and
commercial surveillance software becomes more effective
regulated and the parliaments and the supervisory authorities
enables effective control (p. 109 f.). The coalition turns
also opposes biometric registration
Surveillance purposes (“face recognition”) – that too
important concern of data protection officers. In addition, should
the right to anonymity both online and in
public space are guaranteed (p. 109).

Other positive aspects from the point of view of data protection are
the plans of the traffic light
legally secure and
data protection-compliant data transfer with the USA (p. 35), for
a modern employee data protection law and the
balanced use of artificial intelligence (pp. 18, 72).

for one

(p.

announces

From the point of view of freedom of information, it is very welcome
that the federal government is more open by introducing
of the “executive footprint” (p. 10) and a right to
open data
the
Further development of the Freedom of Information Act into one
Federal Transparency Act (p. 11) applies to the demands of
Freedom of Information Officer
official
Information should no longer only be provided upon request, but via
state internet portals are made accessible. A
Federal Transparency Act will also include freedom of information
have a positive impact at country level.

especially

17);

on:

Overall, according to the state commissioner Brink, the
Federal government with a view to data protection and digitization
extensive tasks undertaken and important goals
specified, which affect the German states
will. “Now it is important that these plans also
be implemented quickly,” says LfDI Stefan Brink.

