
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07.01.2020
                                Best of Freedom of Information 2019©
                            geralt / pixabay.com More and more citizens are taking advantage of the opportunity created by the State Transparency Act of Rhineland-Palatinate to access information from public authorities. This is also reflected in the number of written requests for advice and complaints received by the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, which increased again with a total of 190 in 2019 compared to 180 in 2018. In addition, there are numerous telephone consultations from citizens or administrations who want to find out about their information rights or disclosure obligations. The State Commissioner himself is also subject to the regulations of the Transparency Act and takes corresponding requests into account. The number of requests for access to information, which were submitted to the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI), rose from 12 in 2018 to 55 in 2019. “The rising number of requests for access to information shows that citizens are aware of their right to access information. The cases in which the state commissioner is involved as a mediator show that the citizens regularly pursue issues that are important to them, mostly from their regional environment. It's about very specific information from the municipality or the authority that affects the individual," says the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelman. “This proves that, especially in a world that is becoming more complex, there is an increasing demand for transparency and traceability in government action. Citizens want to understand why government agencies act in a certain way. They are exercising their democratic right to control the actions of the state.” In a press conference on January 7th, 2020, the state commissioner presented the most exciting and interesting cases in the area of freedom of information in 2019.
Further information: Table template for the press conference on January 7th, 2020 Press release from December 18th, 2019 "Handover of the activity reports of the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information"
                                return
                            



