 

 

Access Now 
Amnesty International 
Asociatia pentru Technologie si Internet (ApTI) 
Bits of Freedom 
Digitalcourage 
Digitale Gesellschaft 
Državljan D 
Electronic Frontier Finland 
European Center for Not-for-Profit Law Stichting (ECLN) 
European Digital Rights (EDRi) 
Fitug e.V. 
Homo Digitalis 
IT-Pol Denmark 
La Quadrature du Net 
noyb 
Open Rights Group 
Panoptykon 
Privacy International  
 
 

 
 
Dear Madam/ Sir, 

Brussels, 14/06/2022 
Ref: OUT2022-0046 

The EDPB very much welcomes your letter calling upon the structural and procedural enforcement of 
the GDPR and its work to promote and safeguard data protection.  

It has always been in focus of our activities to further enhance the effectiveness of cooperation and 
enforcement  procedures  under  the  GDPR,  as  evidenced  by  the  statistics  on  the  Supervisory 
Authorities' activities in 2021: 505 cross-border cases have been created in the case register, 209 One-
stop-shop (Art 60) draft decisions have been issued, which resulted in 141 Final Decisions. 

To improve the cooperation between data protection supervisory authorities, the Board has already 
launched several initiatives, such as the Coordinated Enforcement Framework, the Support Pool of 
Experts, or Secondment programmes, which would facilitate the sharing of knowledge, exchange of 
experts, methodologies  and  good  practices  among  the  authorities,  with  the  active  participation of 
colleagues from the authorities. I would also like to recall the guidance recently published by the EDPB 

 

 

regarding OSS procedures (Guidelines 02/22), which addresses several key cooperation issues in order 
to outline legally sound and consistent approaches to be followed by all SAs and the new Guidelines 
on the calculation of administrative fines under the GDPR (Guidelines 04/2022). 

A two-day high level meeting took place in Vienna in April 2022, where the EDPB members agreed to 
diversify  the  cooperation  methods  used  for    strong  and  swift  enforcement    and  consistent 
interpretation and application of the GDPR. In this context the EDPB members agreed: 

to collectively identify cross border cases of strategic importance in different Member 

i. 
States on a regular basis, for which cooperation will be prioritised and supported by EDPB; 

that the EDPB will deal with specific legal issues on matters of general application for 

ii. 
instance by making greater use of consistency opinion to take position; 

that they commit to further exchange information on national enforcement strategies 

iii. 
with a view to agreeing on annual enforcement priorities at EDPB level; 

iv. 
to  facilitate  the  cross-border  exchange  of  information,  and  therefore  propose  a 
template  for  data  subjects’  complaints,  to  be  used  by  DPAs  on  a  voluntary  basis,  and  to 
improve IT cooperation tools of the EDPB; 

to identify a list of procedural aspects that could be further harmonised in EU law to 

v. 
maximise the positive impact of GDPR cooperation; and 

to  solidly  embed  the  GDPR  and  DPAs  in  the  overall  regulatory  architecture  that  is 

vi. 
being developed for the digital market (Data Act, DMA, DSA, AI Act, DGA). 

 

Regarding EDRi’s call for guidance for DPAs, the EDPB acknowledges that different procedural rules, 
different data protection cultures and different market situations pose challenges for the consistent 
application of the GDPR, however one of the EDPB’s main objectives is to bridge these differences and 
provide guidelines for consistent application. 

Overall, the GDPR has created an innovative governance system designed to ensure a high level of 
data protection and the EDPB members are fully committed to the consistent and effective application 
of the GDPR. 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Ventsislav Karadjov 

Vice-Chair of the EDPB 

 

