 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

1/5 

General Secretariat  

Decision n° 09/2021 of 3 November 2021  

 
 
 
 
Subject: Approval decision of the Otis Controller Binding Corporate Rules by the General 
Secretariat of the Belgian Data Protection Authority (DOS-2019-03645)  
 
Having regard to Article 47(1) of the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR), the 
General Secretariat of the Belgian Data Protection Authority (“General Secretariat”) shall approve the 
Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  (“BCR-C”)  submitted  by  Otis  provided  that  they  meet  the 
requirements set out under this Article.  
 
Having regard to Article 20, §1er 8° of the « Loi du 3 décembre 2017 portant création de l'Autorité de 
protection des données ».  
 
Whereas: 

In accordance with the cooperation procedure as set out in the Working Document WP263.rev.01, the 
BCR-C application of Otis were reviewed by the Belgian Data Protection Authority, as the competent 
Authority for the BCRs (BCR Lead) and by two SAs acting as co-reviewers. The application was also 
reviewed by the concerned SAs to which the BCRs were communicated as part of the cooperation 
procedure.  

The review concluded that the BCR-C of Otis comply with the requirements set out by Article 47(1) of 
the GDPR as well as the Working Document WP256.rev.01 and in particular that the aforementioned 
BCRs:  
 
a)  Are legally binding and contain a clear duty for each participating member of the Group including 

their employees to respect the BCRs by: 
- 

- 

contractually binding Otis’ affiliates vis-à-vis each other to comply with the BCRs through an 
intra-group agreement and commitment to abide by the BCRs. See Section B.1 of the BCRs.  
including a duty to respect the BCRs in employee’s employment contracts and internal policies. 
BCRs, Section B.1 
 

Decision GS  09/2021 - 2/5 

b)  Expressly confer enforceable third party beneficiary rights to data subjects with regard to the 

processing of their personal data as part of the BCRs: 
- 

BCRs, Section B.2 ; B.4 ; D.1; D.5 ; D.6; D.7 ; D.9   

c)  Fulfil the requirements laid down in Article 47(2) 

a. 

the structure and contact details of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises 
engaged in a joint economic activity and of each of its members:  
- 

BCRs, Exhibit C  

 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

the data transfers or set of transfers, including the categories of personal data, the type 
of processing and its purposes, the type of data subjects affected and the identification 
of the third country or countries in question: 
- 

BCRs, Introduction; Exhibit C and D 
 

 legally binding nature, both internally and externally: 
- 

BCRs, Section B.1  
 

the application of the general data protection principles, in particular purpose limitation, 
data minimisation, limited storage periods, data quality, data protection by design and by 
default,  legal  basis  for  processing,  processing  of  special  categories  of  personal  data, 
measures to ensure data security, and the requirements in respect of onward transfers to 
bodies not bound by the binding corporate rules: 
- 

BCRs, Section D.1 
 

the rights of data subjects in regard to processing and the means to exercise those rights, 
including the right not to be subject to decisions based solely on automated processing, 
including profiling in accordance with Article 22, the right to lodge a complaint with the 
competent supervisory authority and before the competent courts of the Member States 
in accordance with Article 79, and to obtain redress and, where appropriate, compensation 
for a breach of the binding corporate rules: 
- 

BCRs, Section D.1; D.5; D.6  

the acceptance by the controller or processor established on the territory of a Member 
State of liability for any breaches of the binding corporate rules by any member concerned 
not established in the Union; the controller or the processor shall be exempt from that 
liability, in whole or in part, only if it proves that that member is not responsible for the 
event giving rise to the damage: 
- 

BCRs, Section A and D.6   

 

g.  how the information on the binding corporate rules, in particular on the provisions referred 
to in points (d), (e) and (f) of this paragraph is provided to the data subjects in addition 
to Articles 13 and 14: 
- 

BCRs, Section D.6 and D.9   

h.  the tasks of any data protection officer designated in accordance with Article 37 or any 
other person or entity in charge of the monitoring compliance with the binding corporate 
rules  within  the  group  of  undertakings,  or  group  of  enterprises  engaged  in  a  joint 
economic activity, as well as monitoring training and complaint-handling: 
- 

BCRs, Section D.2    

 

 

 

i. 

j. 

k. 

l. 

 

Decision GS  09/2021 - 3/5 

 

the complaint procedures: 
- 

BCRs, Section D.5  

 

the mechanisms within the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a 
joint  economic  activity  for  ensuring  the  verification  of  compliance  with  the  binding 
corporate rules. Such mechanisms shall include data protection audits and methods for 
ensuring  corrective  actions  to  protect  the  rights  of  the  data  subject.  Results  of  such 
verification should be communicated to the person or entity referred to in point (h) and 
to the board of the controlling undertaking of a group of undertakings, or of the group of 
enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, and should be available upon request to 
the competent supervisory authority: 
- 

BCRs, D.4 

 the mechanisms for reporting and recording changes to the rules and reporting those 
changes to the supervisory authority: 
- 

BCRs, Section D.8 

the cooperation mechanism with the supervisory authority to ensure compliance by any 
member of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic 
activity,  in  particular  by  making  available  to  the  supervisory  authority  the  results  of 
verifications of the measures referred to in point (j): 
- 

BCRs, SectionD.6 and D.7 

m.  the  mechanisms  for  reporting  to  the  competent  supervisory  authority  any  legal 
requirements to which a member of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises 
engaged in a joint economic activity is subject in a third country which are likely to have 
a substantial adverse effect on the guarantees provided by the binding corporate rules: 
- 

n.  the appropriate data protection training to personnel having permanent or regular access 

BCRs, B.2 
 

to personal data: 
- 

BCRs, D.3 

 

 

 

The EDPB provided its opinion 34/2021 in accordance with Article 64(1)(f). The Belgian Data Protection 
Authority took utmost account of this opinion and communicated to the Board that it will amend the 
draft decision accordingly.  
 
DECIDES AS FOLLOWING: 
 
1.  The BCR-C of Otis provide appropriate safeguards for the transfer of personal data in accordance 

with Article 46(1),(2f) and Article 47 (1), (2) GDPR and hereby approves the BCR-C of Otis.  

2.  However, before making use of the BCR it is the responsibility of the data exporter in a Member 
State, if needed with the help of the data importer, to assess whether the level of protection 
required by EU law is respected in the third country of destination, including onward transfer 
situations. This assessment has to be conducted in order to determine if the guarantees provided 

Decision GS  09/2021 - 4/5 

by BCRs can be complied with in practice, in light of the circumstances of the possible impingement 
created  by  the  third  country  legislation  with  the  fundamental  rights  and  the  circumstances 
surrounding the transfer. If this is not the case, the data exporter in a Member State, if needed 
with the help of the data importer, should assess whether it can provide supplementary measures 
to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU. 

3.  Where the data exporter in a Member State is not able to take supplementary measures necessary 
to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU, personal data cannot 
be lawfully transferred to a third country under this BCR. Therefore the data exporter is required 
to suspend or end the transfer of personal data. In such case if a Group Company envisages to 
transfer personal data to a third country nevertheless, it must notify the competent supervisory 
authority beforehand to enable that SA to ascertain whether the proposed transfer should be 
suspended or prohibited in order to ensure an adequate level of protection. 

4.  The approved BCRs will not require any specific authorization from the concerned supervisory 

authorities. 

5.  In accordance with Article 57.2.j GDPR, each concerned Supervisory Authority maintains the power 
to  order  the  suspension  of  data  flows  to  a  recipient  in  a  third  country  or  to  an  international 
organization  whenever  the  appropriate  safeguards  envisaged  by  the  BCR-C  of  Otis  are  not 
respected. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decision GS  09/2021 - 5/5 

 

ANNEX TO THE DRAFT DECISION  

 

The BCR-C of Otis that are hereby approved cover the following:  
 

a.  Scope: Only members of Otis acting as controller, that are legally bound by the Otis 

‘ BCRs and Intra-group agreement (BCRs, Section B and C) 
 

b.  EEA countries from which transfers are to be made: all EEA member states 

c.  Third countries to which transfers are to be made : BCRs, Exhibit C   

 

d.  Purposes of the transfer : BCRs, Exhibit D 

e.  Categories of data subjects concerned by the transfer : BCRs, Exhibit D 

 

f.  Categories of personal data transferred :  BCRs, Exhibit D 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

