media information
Saxon data protection officer

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
extension
Telephone +49 351 85471 120
Fax +49 351 85471 109
sdb.presse@slt.sachsen.de*
03.09.2021

Start of school in Saxony: New information on
Privacy for parents, teachers and students

Around 494,500 schoolchildren will start next Monday
into a new school year. Also there: around 39,900 first graders. their everyday life
is now changing, and with that comes a number of questions that are changing
Parents now ask: How can my child use a tablet without that
his data fall into the wrong hands? May the school of a
Make a copy of the mask exemption certificate? Can one from my child
Proof of vaccination, for example a measles vaccination, is required?
What about filming and taking photos at school events
observe?
Parents turn to the Saxon with these and similar questions
Data Protection Officer. Representatives of the schools, on the other hand, often disagree
unsure when it comes to the data protection-compliant use of online
learning platforms and video conferencing systems.
The Saxon Data Protection Officer Andreas Schurig explains:
»Advancing digitization means that in schools
more and more personal data is being processed – both in
teaching as well as administration. Especially because the students
and students often still have the necessary awareness of the digital world
Lacking privacy protection, parents and teachers are at this point
required. With the information compiled on my website
would like
I support that the personal rights of
Those affected are better protected.«
The range of information »Privacy Policy at School« includes information
guidelines and recommendations

• data protection aspects of infection protection,
• Online learning platforms in school lessons,

Page 1 of 2

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden

https://www.saechsdsb.de

To reach with the
Tram line 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)

* No access for encrypted
electronic documents. Access
for qualified electronic signatures
Documents only under the on
www.lsf.sachsen.de/eSignatur.html
noted conditions.

• video conferencing systems,
• media-educational offers for the mediation of

privacy and

• Taking photos at school events.

In the coming months, the offer is to be supplemented by further documents and
Notes are added: www.saechsdsb.de/datenschutz-in-der-schule

Left:
Privacy at school

Page 2 of 2

