1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00005/2020

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 24, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against SOUND SOUL, S.L. with CIF B02262327 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are "installation on the facade of the
PUB of a video surveillance camera capturing part of the public space”.

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) that proves the
installation of the device in question on the facade of the establishment oriented
towards public road.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
information provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed
that the person responsible for the treatment is the claimed PUB PUERTO PRINCIPE (in what
successively, The Pub)

Due to the following facts according to statements by the complainant: installation in the fa-
PUB girl a video surveillance camera capturing part of the public space.
That according to the complainant took place on the date of: at the time of the complaint.

And attach the following documentation:

 Photographic report of the installation of the camera.

The background information is the following:

On November 29, 2018, within file E/09423/2018, it was
transfers the claim to the claimed one through the postal services that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

after two delivery attempts, the notification is returned with the result “Returned to Origin”.
gen by Leftover (Not withdrawn in office) on 12/18/2018 at 08:55”.

On December 28, 2018, within file E/09423/2018, it was
reiterates the transfer of the claim to the claimed one through the postal services
that after two delivery attempts, the notification is returned with the result “Returned to
Origin by Surplus (Not picked up at the office) on 01/24/2019 at 08:18”.

With the signing date of January 30, 2019, it is agreed to admit the claim for processing.
tion filed by the claimant against PUB PUERTO PRINCIPE.

During these proceedings, investigations have been carried out on the following
entities:
PUB PUERTO PRINCIPE with NIF with address at ***ADDRESS.1

SOUND SOUL S.L. with CIF B-02262327 with address at ***ADDRESS.2

Requested to the Hon. Albacete City Council on the claimed pub property,
dated November 24, 2018 is received at this Agency, with registration number
050773/2019, letter sent by this city council informing of the following da-
cough:

o Owner: SOUND SOUL S.L.
or CIF: B02262327
o Activity: Disco

After conducting a search in the Central Mercantile Registry (hereinafter, RMC), it is found
that its registered office is ***ADDRESS.2

THIRD: On January 22, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 02/06/20, this Agency receives a written statement of allegations from the
reported stating the following:

“That said camera is focused solely on the door of the PUB, as

shown in the attached report and photo”.

"That for the demonstration of these allegations, is attached to this document
the following documents: Report of the Company Alexma S.A and image of the approach
of the camera".

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

First. On 10/24/19, this Agency receives a claim from the epigraphed
stating the following:

“installation on the facade of the PUB of a video surveillance camera capturing

part of the public space”.

Second. He is accredited as the main person responsible for the installation of the system
the commercial entity Sound Soul S.L.

Third. It is accredited that the capture of public space is the minimum
necessary for the protection of the facade of the establishment. (Proof No. 1),
not appreciating in the evidence provided disproportionate or unnecessary capture of
public and/or private space of third parties.

Fourth. No photograph of the informative poster has been provided indicating the person in charge
of the processing of personal data.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 11/12/2019 by
means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“installation on the facade of the PUB of a video surveillance camera capturing

part of the public space” (folio nº 1).

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

The facts, therefore, are specified in the existence of a camera that could
be poorly oriented, according to the complainant's criteria, and may affect the right to terminate
zeros without just cause.

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems

most installed comply with current legislation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

In any case, the cameras should preferably be oriented towards the
private space, avoiding intimidating neighboring neighbors with this type of device,
as well as control their transit areas without just cause.

With this type of device it is also not possible to obtain image(s) of
public service, as this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Corps
of the State.

On 02/06/20, this Agency received a written allegation from the complainant.

by means of which it states the following:

“that the disproportionate uptake of public space is not true”, contributing

documentary evidence of what, in your case, is captured with the camera in question.

In the investigation phase, the image (Doc. number 1) is examined, con-
Considering that capturing public space is the minimum necessary to protect the
establishment.

The art. 4 section 3 of instruction 1/2006 (AEPD) provides the following:

“Cameras and video cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain
have images of public spaces unless it is essential for the purpose
of surveillance that is intended, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those. In any case, any unnecessary data processing should be avoided.
for the intended purpose”.

Therefore, the mere observation of the camera on the facade of the establishment
does not presuppose a violation of the right to the image of third parties, being able to capture
a minimum public space, necessary to avoid acts of vandalism in the establishment.
to (vgr. graffiti, destruction, etc).

III

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV

According to the arguments presented and once the evidence has been analyzed,
bas provided, it can be concluded that the installed camera complies with current legislation
capturing a space proportionate to the intended purpose.

So it is appropriate to order the file of this procedure by the

stated reasons.

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to SOUND SOUL, S.L. and INFORM the
complainant Mr. A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

