
begining
  » Practice » Opinions of the CPLD for 2022
  
 
 » Opinion of the CPLD on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads 47-254-01-65 of 10.06.2022 Opinion of the CPLD on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads 47-254-01-65 dated 10.06. 2022
OPINION
ON
COMMISSION FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
Reg. No. PNMD-01-75/2022
Sofia, 01.08.2022

REGARDING: Bill to amend and supplement the Law on Roads 47-254-01-65 dated 10.06.2022.

The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data (CPDP), composed of Chairman: Ventsislav Karadzhov and members: Maria Mateva and Veselin Tselkov, at its regular meeting held on 27.07.2022, considered a letter with No. PNMD-01-75/19.07.2022 by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria - Prof. Diana Kovacheva, requesting an opinion on the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law submitted to the National Assembly by Mr. Nastimir Ananiev and a group of people's representatives for roads 47-254-01-65 dated 10.06.2022 and more specifically with § 1, which reads:




Article 10, para. 2, sentence one is amended as follows:
"In the case of established traffic on the paid road network, when the relevant fee under para. has not been paid for the relevant road vehicle. 1, the driver of the road vehicle, its owner or a third party may pay a compensatory fee, which is notified by e-mail or in another appropriate way, in which case the same is released from criminal liability."





On the occasion of the thus proposed revision of the provision, the ombudsman asks for an opinion on the following issues:
1. "Do e-mail and mobile number constitute personal data within the meaning of § 1, item 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act;
2. Should there be express text in the Roads Act requiring drivers of vehicles when purchasing a vignette to provide their e-mail and/or mobile number for the Road Infrastructure Agency to process for notification purposes .”

Legal analysis:
According to the legal definition in Art. 4, item 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR) "personal data" means any information relating to an identified natural person or an identifiable natural person ("data subject ”) directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier such as name, identification number, location data, online identifier or by one or more characteristics specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that individual.
As can be seen from the legal definition, there are no specific and comprehensive lists that define which categories of data are personal, but examples can be given as follows:
• name;
• address;
• email address, such as name.lastname@xxx.com;
• identity document number;
• location data (eg the location data function of a mobile phone);
• Internet Protocol (IP) address;
• cookie identification number;
• phone number, etc.
The GDPR protects personal data regardless of the technology used to process it – it is "technology neutral" and applies to both automatic and manual processing, provided the data is organized according to pre-defined criteria. It also does not matter how the data is stored – in an IT system, via video surveillance or on paper, in all cases personal data is subject to the protection requirements set out in the GDPR.
In this sense, it can be reasonably concluded that e-mail and mobile number generally fall within the scope of the concept of personal data.
As a general rule, the processing of personal data should be carried out in compliance with the basic principles declared in Art. 5 of the GDPR. According to the principles, self-serving processing of personal data is inadmissible. The processed personal data must be necessary, proportionate and appropriate to achieve the objectives set by the controller or by law.
Put in this way, the second question is related to the expediency of processing personal data, and it cannot be defined by the supervisory body - CPLD. In the specific case, this assessment should be carried out by the legislator within the legislative process, setting out the relevant reasons for the need to process the specified categories of data.
It should be noted that even at the moment, for the purchase of an electronic vignette through the specialized portal, it is required to provide an e-mail address to which confirmation of its purchase can be sent, as well as notifications to be served.
For the sake of completeness of the statement, in the proposed amendment, the replacement of administrative criminal liability with criminal liability is striking, which we assume is due to a technical error, as the Criminal Code does not provide for such a composition of the crime.
For these reasons and on the basis of Art. 58, par. 3, b. "b" of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in conjunction with Art. 10a, para. 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act and Art. 51, item 2 of the Regulations for the activities of the CPLD and its administration, the Personal Data Protection Commission expresses the following
OPINION:
1. E-mail and mobile number generally fall within the scope of the concept of personal data, as they can be used to directly or indirectly identify a specific natural person.
2. The assessment of expediency, necessity and proportionality of the processing of e-mail and mobile number should be carried out and motivated by the legislator within the legislative process, including the provision of an explicit text that would oblige the drivers of vehicles, their owners or third parties persons to provide this data upon payment of the relevant vehicle fees.
3. Legislation should create clear legal grounds for processing personal data, taking into account the principles proclaimed in Art. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as to introduce appropriate terms for their storage. Data subjects should be guaranteed the rights granted by Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as be provided with the necessary information about the rules and procedures in place for the processing of their personal data.




CHAIRMAN:
MEMBERS:



Vencislav Karadjov /p/

Maria Mateva /p/




Veselin Tselkov /p/



 
 Download files
 Opinion of the CPLD on the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Roads 47-254-01-65 of 10.06.2022.

 print
