1(12)

The municipal board in Kungälv municipality
 

Diary number:
DI-2021-8567

Your diary number:
KS2021/1758

Date:
2023-05-15

Decision after supervision according to
camera surveillance act –
The municipal board in Kungälvs
municipality

Content
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision ................................................ ............................2
Description of the matter .............................................. ................................................... 2
What the municipal board has stated .............................................. ........................2
Security in the parking garage and art gallery (places 1–3) ................................3
Surveillance with anonymization technology (places 4–9) ....................................3
Technical description of "anonymization by pixelation" .......................3
The municipal board's assessment regarding the identification of individuals ..........4
The municipal board's assessment regarding the permit obligation .......................4
Justification of the decision .............................................. ................................................... ....5
Applicable regulations ................................................... ...................................5
Responsibility for personal data ................................................... ........................................6
Security in the parking garage and art gallery (places 1–3) ....................................... ....6
Surveillance with anonymization technology (places 4–9) ......................................... ......7
The Camera Surveillance Act is applicable to the surveillance ............................7
The municipal board does not have permission for camera surveillance .......................8
Choice of intervention .............................................. ................................................ 9
Applicable regulations ................................................... ........................9
IMY's assessment .............................................. ......................................10
How to appeal ............................................... ................................................ .....12
 

 

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

2(12)

 

The Privacy Protection Authority's decision

The Privacy Protection Authority states that the Municipal Board in Kungälv Municipality
violates the permit requirement in Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200) by
the following locations during the specified time period conduct camera surveillance without permission.

• Nordmannatorget during the period 19 October 2021 to 15 May 2023
• The outdoor parking White spot during the period 8 June 2021 to 15 May 2023
• Bandy track Skarpe Nord during the period 11 September 2021 to 15 May 2023
• Kongahälla Center during the period 11 September 2021 to 15 May 2023
• Thorildskolan during the period 1 August 2018 to 15 May 2023
• The outdoor swimming pool in Kungälv during the period 1 August–7 November 2018, 13 May–

1 September 2019, 10 June–29 August 2020, 21 May–4 September 2021 and
5 June–22 June 2022.

The Privacy Protection Authority issues a reprimand to the Municipal Board in Kungälv Municipality
according to Section 24 of the Camera Surveillance Act and Article 58.2 b of the Data Protection Ordinance1 for
the violation.

The Privacy Protection Authority prohibits the Municipal Board in Kungälv municipality according to
Section 24 of the Camera Surveillance Act and Article 58.2 f of the Data Protection Ordinance to conduct
permit-required camera surveillance at Nordmannatorget, outdoor car park Vita
the stain, the Skarpe Nord bandy court, Kongahälla Center, Thorildskolan and
The outdoor swimming pool in Kungälv without a camera surveillance permit.
Statement of the matter

The Swedish Privacy Protection Agency (IMY) has received a complaint regarding
camera surveillance in Kungälv municipality. The complaint states that the municipality conducts
camera surveillance without permission in a number of places in the municipality where the public has
access.

IMY has started supervision of the Municipal Board in Kungälv municipality (municipal board) i
purpose of investigating the municipal board's camera surveillance of the public listed below
places are subject to a permit in accordance with Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act, as well as - regarding the permit requirement
deemed to exist - whether the municipal board has permission for the camera surveillance.
The Camera Surveillance Act entered into force on 1 August 2018. IMY's supervision refers to
the time period 1 August 2018 to the date of this decision.

What the municipal board has stated

The municipal board is responsible for nine different camera installations in the areas listed below
public places in Kungälv. The municipal board is responsible for personal data
the surveillance. In three of these places (places 1–3) surveillance takes place without
anonymization technology and in six places (places 4–9) the monitoring takes place with
anonymization technology. Surveillance takes place at the following locations.

1. The Three Kings car park. Surveillance takes place every day around the clock inside

the parking garage.

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regarding the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on the cancellation of
directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

3(12)

 

2. The Palissaden parking garage. Surveillance takes place every day around the clock inside

3. Art Gallery Mimers Hus. Surveillance takes place every day around the clock

the parking garage.

the art exhibition hall.

4. Nordmann Square. The surveillance covers the square, connecting parking lot as well as
part of Kongahällagatan. The monitoring began on 19 October 2021 and is ongoing
every day at 18.00–06.00.

5. The "White spot" outdoor parking lot. The surveillance covers outdoor parking and

street parking. The monitoring began on June 8, 2021 and takes place every day
at 00:00–04:00.

6. Bandy track Skarpe Nord. The surveillance is partially fenced

sports facility. The monitoring began on 11 September 2021 and is ongoing
Monday–Friday at 23.30–07.00 and Saturdays and Sundays at 22.00–07.00.

7. Kongahälla Center. The surveillance concerns the outside of the shopping centre. The surveillance

started on 11 September 2021 and takes place every day at 18.00–06.00.

8. Thorild School. The surveillance concerns the school yard and outdoor facades.

The monitoring began on 28 August 2017 and takes place every day around the clock.

9. The outdoor swimming pool in Kungälv. The surveillance refers to the outdoor pool and adjacent areas

surfaces. Surveillance takes place every day at 21.40–06.30 during that period of the year
there is activity in the bath. Monitoring has taken place during the following
time periods: July 7–August 18, 2015, May 9–October 20, 2016, May 17–20
September 2017, June 21–November 7, 2018, May 13–September 1, 2019,
10 June–29 August 2020, 21 May–4 September 2021 and 5 June–22 June 2022.

Security in the parking garage and art gallery (places 1–3)
With regard to the surveillance at locations 1–3, the municipal board has essentially stated
following. The monitoring takes place without an anonymization function. Because the coverage in
the Tre Kungar car park and the Palissaden car park are done with the aim of preventing,
preventing or detecting criminal activity or investigating or prosecuting crime is not required
permission. Regarding the security in the Art Gallery Mimers Hus, Kungälv municipality has one
valid permit for camera surveillance from the County Administrative Board2.

Surveillance with anonymization technology (places 4–9)
With regard to the surveillance at locations 4–9, the municipal board has stated that the surveillance
takes place with anonymization technology. The current technology – anonymization through
pixelation – in short means that foreground objects such as pedestrians, vehicles and
similar is replaced with a low-resolution version of the same object. The thought with
the monitoring is that it should be possible to see about people from anonymized video material
stays in a certain place for a certain time, and automatically notify
the alarm operator in unwanted situations. The alarm operator only takes part
anonymized image material. The monitoring is provided by the alarm operator who handles video alarms
information about the course of events in a certain situation so that he can decide whether
guards need to be sent to the site. Anonymized material is saved and stored in triplicate
days. The original video is not recorded.

Technical description of "anonymization by pixelation"
The technique replaces foreground objects with a number of larger pixels (square picture elements)
in a way that makes identification of the person in question impossible. If the original video is in color
the color information of the foreground objects is eliminated and replaced by a grayscale version
of the same object. The coarseness of the pixelation can be set per camera. The

2 Decision of the County Board of Västra Götaland County on 26 February 2007 in case 211-2587-2007.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

4(12)

 

the current cameras are set so that people's faces are covered by a maximum of 5x5 pixels
which is the default setting.

All surveillance in places 4–9 takes place with the pixelation function switched on. The cameras collect
upload footage from the scene, called "original video". The low-resolution image is superimposed on i
a software that runs on a server with direct connection to the camera in a private
network. Before the low-resolution image is superimposed, the video data is handled only in the camera's
RAM, network buffers and the like, and only for a fraction of a second.
No original video is saved on hard drive, in database or other more permanent
storage location. Compared to other technologies, it is not about taking pictures with
identifiable people are first saved and then anonymized - without the whole process
with image recording and anonymization happening simultaneously and at the same time.

The software is a prerequisite for the camera to function as intended. It is not
possible to record footage through the camera without processing the original video
takes place via the software. The entire process takes between 0.02 to 0.1 seconds. First after
this process, the image capture is accessible to humans. There is no technical
possibility for an individual to access imaging that occurs before the process is
completed. There is no way to recreate the original video from the anonymized one
the video.

The municipal board's assessment regarding the identification of individuals
The technique of anonymization through pixelation includes a variety of techniques to
make identification of individuals impossible. These include reducing resolution to one
level so low that identification becomes impossible, removal of color data to make large objects
and articles of clothing impossible to recognize, "introduced imprecision" in the image that does
precise measurements of object dimensions impossible. Individuals therefore cannot
is identified based on video material where anonymization through pixelation has been applied,
neither manually nor with technical methods. In this part, the municipal board has, among other things,
referred to the industry standard for video surveillance systems3 regarding which
image resolution required to perform a certain surveillance task, e.g. identification or
recognition possible.

The municipal board's assessment regarding the permit obligation
Camera surveillance that takes place with the anonymization function turned on does not constitute
personal data processing according to the data protection regulation and neither
personal surveillance in the meaning of the Camera Surveillance Act when individuals who meet
of the surveillance cannot be identified. The Data Protection Regulation and
the camera surveillance act is therefore not applicable regarding the surveillance that takes place
in place 4–9.

In this part, the Municipal Board has referred to a supervisory decision from the County Board i
Västra Götaland county4 which, according to the municipal board and the alarm operator, constitutes
precedent that monitoring with the anonymization technology does not constitute personal monitoring i
the meaning of the Camera Surveillance Act. The municipal board states that the county board's
supervisory decisions apply to the same basic technology and settings for the anonymization function
which is used for the surveillance in places 4–9.

Before the decision to set up cameras in public places contacted
the municipality's security coordinator IMY (then the Data Inspectorate) for advice
regarding the permit obligation. The advice and authority information that IMY

3 International Electrotechnical Commission, Industry Standard for Video Surveillance Systems - IEC 62676-4:2016
4 Decision of the County Board of Västra Götaland County on 19 December 2012 in case 211-41360-2012.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

5(12)

 

provided in its response gives the impression that IMY has made an assessment of the image material
the security coordinator attached to the email. The municipal board has rightly understood IMY's
answer that the attached image material did not constitute personal surveillance and that
camera surveillance was therefore not subject to a permit. The municipal board also refers to
information from the alarm operator that the current anonymization technology has been demonstrated
for and approved by IMY as not requiring a permit.
Justification of the decision
Applicable regulations

Article 4.1 of the data protection regulation states that any information relating to a
identified or identifiable natural person is personal data. According to Article 4.2 i
the data protection regulation refers to processing a measure or combination of
measures regarding personal data, for example collection, registration, storage,
reading and erasing.

According to Article 4.7 of the data protection regulation, the person in charge of personal data means a
natural or legal person, public authority, institution or other body which
alone or together with others determines the ends and the means for
the processing of personal data.

In the Camera Surveillance Act, there are provisions on camera surveillance that supplement
data protection regulation. The purpose of the Camera Surveillance Act is to meet the need for
camera surveillance for legitimate purposes and to protect natural persons against
undue intrusion into personal privacy during such monitoring (section 2
the Camera Surveillance Act).

The concept of camera surveillance is defined in Section 3 of the Camera Surveillance Act. Of 3 § 1
it appears that camera surveillance is meant

-

-
-

that a television camera, another optical-electronic instrument or a thereby
comparable equipment is used,
that the equipment is used without being operated on site,
that the equipment is used in a way that implies permanent or regular use
repeated personal surveillance.

Personal surveillance means that people can be identified through the surveillance. The
it is required that such characteristics can be observed which means that one can without great uncertainty
distinguish the persons being observed from other persons. This is the case if the whole person or
the person's face is clearly visible. Also such as distinctive clothing, special
body movements or particular body constitution can enable identification (prop.
2017/18:231 pp. 41 and 137). Pictures from the so-called thermal imaging cameras can be so clear through
that particular characteristics appear that it may be a question of personal surveillance.5
Even surveillance with a still camera can constitute personal surveillance even though
body movements then cannot be observed (cf. the Court of Appeal in Stockholm's judgment on
November 7, 2007 in case no. 6613-07).

Long-term personal surveillance refers to e.g. surveillance with a camera as under one
longer time is located in or directed towards a place where people normally stay. With
regularly repeated bodyguarding means bodyguarding on several occasions.

5 SOU 2009:87 p. 162

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

6(12)

 

The requirement for regularity is that it should primarily be about occasions that
are relatively close to each other in time. Also surveillance on occasions that are more scattered
however, can be considered regular if it is a matter of systematic use
of surveillance equipment (prop. 2017/18:231 p. 137).

According to Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act, permission is required for camera surveillance of a location
the public has access, if the monitoring is to be carried out by an authority, or someone
other than an authority when carrying out a task of public interest that follows from
law or other constitution, collective agreement or decision issued on the basis of law
or other constitution.

According to Section 8, third paragraph, 2 of the Camera Surveillance Act, when assessing it
the individual's interest in not being monitored is particularly taken into account if technology promotes
the protection of the individual's personal integrity must be used.

According to Section 9 8 of the Camera Surveillance Act, permission is not required for camera surveillance at
guarding in a parking garage, if the purpose of the guarding is to prevent, prevent
or detect criminal activity or investigate or prosecute crime.

Personal data responsibility

The municipal board has stated that it is responsible for the processing of personal data
personal data that takes place through camera surveillance at locations 1–9 in Kungälv. What
the municipal board states that it is supported by the investigation in the case. IMY therefore assesses that
The municipal board is responsible for personal data for the current processing.

Security in the parking garage and art gallery (places 1–3)

The security in the art gallery Mimers Hus, the parking garage Tre Kungar and
The Palissaden car park takes place without anonymisation technology. It appears from the investigation
that the surveillance constitutes the kind of camera surveillance referred to in
Section 3 of the Camera Surveillance Act. IMY further states that because the municipal board is
an authority and the monitoring takes place in places where the public has access is required which
main rule permission according to section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act.

The security in the Tre Kungar car park and the Palissaden car park (place 1
and 2) occurs inside the parking garages and for the purposes of prevention, prevention or detection
criminal activity or investigating or prosecuting crime. Such monitoring is according to 9 § 8
the camera surveillance act exempted from the permit requirement. The surveillance at location 1 and
2 is thus not subject to a permit.

As for the security in the art gallery Mimers Hus (location 3) Kungälv municipality has
granted permission for camera surveillance according to older legislation.6 IMY notes that
the permit according to the transitional provisions to the camera surveillance act still
applies. The municipal board therefore has permission for the surveillance at location 3.

Against this background, IMY notes that the municipal board's camera surveillance on
locations 1–3 either have a permit or are exempt from the permit requirement. It is therefore missing
reason to investigate the camera surveillance of these places further.

6 Decision of the County Board of Västra Götaland County on 26 February 2007 in case 211-2587-2007.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

7(12)

 

Monitoring with anonymization technology (places 4–9)

The Camera Surveillance Act applies to the surveillance
IMY states that it appears from the investigation that the camera surveillance of the locations
4–9 takes place with equipment that falls under the concept of television camera, other optical
instrument or comparable equipment according to § 3 § 1 of the Camera Surveillance Act. The
it also appears that the camera equipment is permanently mounted at the relevant locations.
The monitoring takes place automatically and the equipment is therefore not operated on
the place.

Decisive for the question of whether the municipal board's use of cameras constitutes
camera surveillance in the sense of the law is therefore if the cameras are used in a way that
means permanent or regularly repeated personal surveillance. With personal security
means that people can be identified based on the surveillance.7

The municipal board has stated that the purpose of the surveillance is not to identify
individual persons, but only to see if someone stays in a certain place and
notify the alarm operator in the event of unwanted situations. IMY states that the purpose of
the use of the camera equipment is irrelevant to the question of
the applicability of the Camera Surveillance Act. 8 The Act is applicable both in the case of such use
of cameras that take place for the purpose of monitoring people and such use that takes place for
other purposes but where people at the same time for a longer period of time or reasonably
regularly enter the camera's field of view in a way that makes them
possible to identify. What the municipal board stated about the purpose of the surveillance is missing
therefore important for the assessment.

With regard to the use of the camera equipment, it appears from the investigation that it
takes place first by recording the image data (the original video) and then by transferring the
the original video to a server. A software processing takes place on the server which results in
a processed image material (pixelated images). The pixelated images are then stored in triplicate
days.

The municipal board believes that the assessment of whether the use of cameras involves
personal surveillance must be done based on the pixelated images and not from the outside
the original video. IMY notes, however, that already the recording of the original video,
the transmission of the original video to the server and the processing of the original video constitute
use of such equipment covered by the Camera Surveillance Act. The
it appears from the investigation that the original video is of such quality that it is possible to
identify individuals. That access to the original video is prevented by technical
measures do increase privacy protection but do not result in the processing ending
to constitute personal data processing or personal surveillance. The treatment of
the original video is thus both personal data processing according to
data protection regulation as personal surveillance in the meaning of the Camera Surveillance Act.
Because personal security refers to places where individuals normally stay and
regularly comes within the coverage area of the cameras, the surveillance is permanent
and regularly repeated.9 The municipal board's camera use through recording
of the original video, transmission to the server and processing of the video on the server constitute
thus camera surveillance in the sense referred to in Section 3 of the Camera Surveillance Act.

7 Prop. 2017/18:231 pp. 41 and 137.
8 Prop. 2017/18:231 p. 137.
9 Cf. prop. 2017/18:231 p. 137.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

8(12)

 

When it comes to the assessment of whether also the treatment of the pixelated
the images constitute personal surveillance, IMY states that the current software technology
admittedly making identification difficult. The images have, after the pixelation, a low resolution
which reduces the possibilities of distinguishing a person's facial features. Furthermore, have
color information on people in image eliminated. However, it is not a question of a complete one
masking where only outlines can be discerned without people in the image being presented in a
gray scale. Several factors are important when assessing whether an identification can
happen and a person can be identifiable based on one or more characteristics. The
the pixelated images can still provide information about e.g. what type of clothing
the person carries or if they use aids such as a wheelchair, crutches or walkers.
The investigation shows that with the cameras you can observe at least these types of
distinctive clothing, particular body movements or particular body constitution that do
that one can distinguish the people being observed from other people without much uncertainty.
IMY emphasizes in particular that the surveillance at Thorildskolan refers to a limited one
circle of students and staff, which can facilitate identification. It can further
found that the pixelated images are saved for three days, which means larger
opportunities for identification of individuals compared to if surveillance had only taken place in
real time. Overall, IMY judges that the camera images, despite the use of it
described software, are clear enough that individuals passing the cameras can
be identified. It is therefore the question of personal security.

Even if not all people who are met by the surveillance will be able to
is identified, IMY assesses that identification can take place regularly. Then that's the question
systematic use of camera equipment in places where many people stay
IMY assesses that the personal surveillance is lasting and regularly repeated. Against
IMY considers that the pixelated image material also constitutes this background
camera surveillance in the sense referred to in Section 3 of the Camera Surveillance Act.
The Camera Surveillance Act is therefore also applicable with regard to the processing of
pixelated imagery.

In summary, IMY assesses that both the recording and processing of
the original video to which the pixelated images are processed
the camera surveillance law.

The technology that the municipal board uses in locations 4–9 does not therefore mean that
the surveillance falls outside the scope of the camera surveillance act.
However, the use of the technology means that the privacy risks with
personal data processing and camera surveillance are reduced. It is thus question
about such privacy-promoting technology as, according to § 8 third paragraph 2
the camera surveillance act, especially must be taken into account during a permit review. 10

The municipal board lacks permission for camera surveillance
The municipal board has stated that in light of the county board's decision11,
information from IMY as well as data from the alarm operator had reason to perceive that
the camera surveillance act is not applicable when surveillance takes place with the person in question
the anonymization technique.

Whether a certain camera use means camera surveillance requiring a permit or
not, is decided by the IMY after an examination in an individual case. Neither IMY nor the county board12

10 Prop. 2017/18:231 p. 145
11 Decision of the County Board of Västra Götaland County on 19 December 2012 in case 211-41360-2012.
12 The County Administrative Board was, according to the Camera Surveillance Act (2013:2013:460), the authority responsible for examining applications for
and issue permits for camera surveillance. The task was taken over by IMY on 1 August 2018 through the new
the camera surveillance law.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

9(12)

 

has tested the use of cameras in locations 4–9 through a permit procedure or
through supervision reviewed camera use. IMY notes that the municipality's
security coordinators have turned to IMY's information service and received general
information regarding the concept of personal surveillance in Section 3 of the Camera Surveillance Act. 13
That information has not been able to be used as revenue because the surveillance is not covered
permit obligation.

The municipal board is an authority and therefore needs permission to operate
camera surveillance in places where the public has access. IMY notes that
the public has access to places 4–9. The municipal board's camera surveillance on site
4–9 is therefore subject to a permit according to Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act.

The municipal board does not hold a valid permit for camera surveillance in the areas in question
the places. The municipal board has not applied for a permit either.

IMY thus states that the municipal board violates the permit requirement in § 7
the camera surveillance law by in the following places during the specified time period
conduct camera surveillance without permission.

• Nordmannatorget during the period 19 October 2021 to 15 May 2023
• The outdoor parking White spot during the period 8 June 2021 to 15 May 2023
• Bandy track Skarpe Nord during the period 11 September 2021 to 15 May 2023
• Kongahälla Center during the period 11 September 2021 to 15 May 2023
• Thorildskolan during the period 1 August 2018 to 15 May 2023
• The outdoor swimming pool in Kungälv during the period 1 August–7 November 2018, 13 May–

1 September 2019, 10 June–29 August 2020, 21 May–4 September 2021 and
5 June–22 June 2022.

Choice of intervention

Applicable regulations
According to section 24 of the Camera Surveillance Act, provisions on the supervisory authority's
powers in the data protection regulation also apply to the supervision of
the camera surveillance law is followed.

According to § 25 § 1, the supervisory authority may collect a sanction fee from the operator
camera surveillance and violates the permit requirement in section 7.

When deciding on a penalty fee, according to Section 26 of the Camera Surveillance Act, Article 83.1,
83.2 and 83.3 of the data protection regulation and ch. 6 Sections 4–7 of the Data Protection Act14
apply.

Section 27 of the Camera Surveillance Act states that in the event of such violations as referred to in
Section 25 1–3, the size of the fee shall be determined in application of Article 83.4 i
the data protection regulation or, in the case of authorities, with application of the lower one
the fee level in ch. 6 Section 2, second paragraph of the Data Protection Act.

From article 58.2 and article 83.2 of the data protection regulation it appears that IMY has
power to impose administrative penalty charges in accordance with Article 83.
Depending on the circumstances of the individual case, administrative
penalty fees are imposed in addition to or instead of the other measures referred to in article

13 IMY Inquiry Case DI-2020-11701.
14 Act (2018:218) with supplementary provisions to the EU's data protection regulation

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

10(12)

 

58.2, such as injunctions and prohibitions. Furthermore, it is clear from article 83.2 which
factors to be taken into account when deciding whether administrative penalty charges are to be imposed
and when determining the size of the fee. If it is a minor violation
receives IMY as set out in recital 148 in lieu of imposing a penalty charge
issue a reprimand according to article 58.2 b. Consideration must be given to aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances of the case, such as the nature of the violation, degree of severity
and duration as well as previous violations of relevance.

IMY's assessment
IMY has established that the municipal board by conducting camera surveillance on
location 4–9 violates the permit requirement in Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act. A violation of
that provision may result in a penalty charge.

The camera surveillance is carried out in places where the public has access and includes a
large number of people from an indefinite circle and involves an intrusion into their personal
integrity. The surveillance has been going on for a long time. In the supervisory matter has not
emerged other than that camera surveillance is still ongoing at all locations including
exception for the outdoor swimming pool (place 9).

It is a matter of surveillance in different types of places where the interest in privacy arises
different strongly applicable. The breach of privacy during night time camera surveillance on
parking spaces are generally considered to be limited, as few people are met by
the surveillance. In the case of schools and schoolyards, this means camera surveillance, on the other hand
often a significant invasion of privacy. According to the data protection regulation, children are a
group worthy of special protection. A school yard is a place for recreation where children and young people
stays both during and after school hours. The school is also a workplace where students
and teachers must be present. Camera surveillance during business hours is therefore
particularly sensitive. Against this background, IMY considers it difficult to
The municipal board has for several years carried out round-the-clock camera surveillance at
Thorildskolan without permission.

However, IMY assesses that the image processing software – anonymization through
pixelation – which the municipal board makes use of means that the breach of privacy
decreases, compared to if during the entire process there had been a question of treatment and
storage of high-resolution images. That the municipal board uses integrity promotion
technology is a mitigating factor.

IMY assesses that the violation of Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act found in
this decision is of such scope and degree of seriousness that it would normally
incur a penalty charge.

In this supervisory case, however, there are special circumstances that speak against one
penalty fee. The municipal board has referred to a supervisory decision from the County Board i
Västra Götaland County15, which was then the competent supervisory authority, as support for that
monitoring with the anonymization technology does not constitute personal monitoring i
the meaning of the Camera Surveillance Act. The municipal board states that the county board's
supervisory decisions apply to the same basic technology and settings for the anonymization function
which is used for the surveillance in places 4–9. IMY notes that the county board's decision
has given the municipal board some justification for the view that the camera surveillance was not
license required. This has meant that there has been a lack of clarity about how the regulation is
would be interpreted.

15 Decision of the County Board of Västra Götaland County on 19 December 2012 in case 211-41360-2012.

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

11(12)

 

From the preparatory work for the camera surveillance law, it appears that there may be cases where it
is unclear how the camera surveillance law should be interpreted. In such cases, whoever has made one should
incorrect interpretation of the regulation is first given the opportunity to come to terms with
the violation through, for example, an injunction or a warning from
the supervisory authority. Only if such a warning or order is not followed
should penalty fees come into question.16 IMY notes that it is a matter of application
of a provision on penalty fees introduced in national law (section 26
the Camera Surveillance Act) and that the operating statements are therefore indicative of
the interpretation of the provision.

IMY finds in an overall assessment of the circumstances that, especially with
consideration of what was stated in the preparatory work for the camera surveillance act, is available
reason to refrain from imposing a penalty fee on the municipal board
found the violation. The municipal board must therefore, with the support of § 24
the Camera Surveillance Act and Article 58.2 b of the Data Protection Ordinance, instead one is given
reprimand for the established violation.

The camera surveillance means a breach of privacy for people who are seen by it
the surveillance and it is urgent that the camera surveillance ceases. IMY assesses
because there is reason to prohibit the municipal board according to article 58.2 f i
the data protection regulation and section 24 of the camera surveillance act to operate subject to a permit
camera surveillance at Nordmann Square, the outdoor car park Vita fläkken,
the Skarpe Nord bandy track, Kongahälla Center, Thorildskolan and the Outdoor Swimming Pool i
Kungälv without a camera surveillance permit.

__________________________

This decision has been taken by the general manager Lena Lindgren Schelin after a presentation
by lawyer Moa Nordqvist. In the final proceedings, the Chief Justice David also has
Törngren and the IT security specialist Petter Flink participated.

Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2023-05-15 (This is an electronic signature)

Copy to:
Data Protection Officer (for information)
 
 

16 Prop. 2017/18:231 p. 116

 

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority
 

Diary number: DI-2021-8567
Date: 2023-05-15
 

12(12)

 

How to appeal

If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been submitted to the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the date of the decision
was announced. If the appeal has been received in time send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.

You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

