1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00096/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated July 22, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“presence of two video-surveillance cameras with presumed orientation towards
private area of the claimant, affecting his personal and family privacy” (folio No. 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence that proves the presence of the

device, on the facade of the house (Doc. nº 1).

SECOND: On 08/13/20, a TRANSFER is given to the person claimed so that
express in law what it deems appropriate.

THIRD: On 11/20/20 the transfer to the claimed party is reiterated, without
any statement has been made for the appropriate legal purposes.

FOURTH: On May 5, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 05/21/21, a written statement was received from the claimed manifesto.
taking the following:

“The appearing party has never installed surveillance cameras in any place.
gar, nor is it the owner of a property in which there is the presence of a security camera.
surveillance, being without a doubt the agreement to initiate this file as a result of
an error for which we cannot find an explanation”

“As has been said, the “claimant” does not know the “claimant” Mr. AAA, of
who knows for himself that he is not a neighbor of his building located in C/ ***DI-
RECTION.1, of ***LOCATION.1, nor is it known in any of the buildings in the
lle del Pilar in the same city of Murcia, to which its balcony has views.

 
Neither on the balcony nor on the façade of the said house in which the company resides.
recently with his family, there is no surveillance camera, as can be seen in the
photographs attached. Of any other property other than your habitual residence
makes use of the appearing party, so it is not understood that he has been identified

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

as the holder or owner of some cameras that, if they exist, will be installed in a
dwelling or premises that are foreign to him”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 07/22/20 is examined by me-
gave from which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“presence of two video-surveillance cameras with presumed orientation towards
private area of the claimant, affecting his personal and family privacy” (folio No. 1).

Article 5 section 1 GDPR “Principles related to treatment” provides that: “The
personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

They will be installed at the different entrances to the video-monitored area and, in a visible place, one or
several posters that inform that you are accessing a video-monitored area.
In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.

The recording system will be located in a guarded place or with restricted access. At
recorded images will be accessed only by authorized personnel, who must enter a code
say username and password. Once the system is installed, it is recommended
regular password change, avoiding easily deductible ones.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
must be oriented towards private space, since it is considered that this type of
devices can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimidated by the
herself in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

The camera(s) cannot focus on public roads. If it is necessary to protect the entrance from
a house or that of the garage or establishment, the installation must pass the judgments of
proportionality, suitability and minimal intervention.

III

On 05/21/21, a written statement was received from the respondent denying the facts.
chos, stating that "it does not have any video-surveillance camera", as well as
"I do not know who the claimant is."

“The appearing party has never installed surveillance cameras in any place.
gar, nor is it the owner of a property in which there is the presence of a security camera.
surveillance, being without a doubt the agreement to initiate this file as a result of
an error for which we cannot find an explanation” (folio nº 1)

Along with the allegations, he provides documentary evidence (Annex I) of the balcony of his

dwelling in which there is no installation of any device.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

It should be noted that the identification of the claimed party occurs at the request of the
State Tax Agency which identifies the number ***NIF.1, as associated with the same
ma, being able to be a system error not attributable, neither to this organism, nor to the
claimant who limits himself to conveying some generic “facts”.

IV

Based on the foregoing, it can be concluded that the respondent denies being responsible
installation of any camera in the home you own, providing the evidence
necessary to decree the Archive of this procedure.

It is recommended that if the behavior described persists, that the claimant
bring it to the attention of the State Security Forces and Bodies (vgr. Po-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

Local Police), who have the necessary experience to act in cases such as the
written, avoiding unnecessary "errors" when proving the alleged person responsible for
the infraction described, being able to carry out the necessary investigations in situ.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the person responsible for the alleged infringement described.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Doña B.B.B. and REPORT the
result of the actions to the AAA claimant.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

