

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in connection with viewing the population register
UOOU-03866/20


The inspection was initiated on the basis of
complaints directed against the procedure of the Police of the Czech Republic in the use of personal data
from the register of residents (hereinafter referred to as "ROB"), especially with regard to
the fact that the Police of the Czech Republic gradually disclosed the data at the request of the subject
different reasons for using ROB data.

The complainant was first summary
informed by statement that the ROB was inspected as part of a road inspection,
he was later informed by a letter from the Chief of Police that the reason had been given
erroneously and the inspection was carried out with regard to the need for discovery
addresses where the camera recordings were to be picked up according to prior agreement
between the Police of the Czech Republic and the complainant. However, the complainant subsequently disputed the above.

As part of the actions
prior to the inspection, the Office was informed that the reason for inspecting
The ROB was required to record the complainant's personal data in the file
material of the relevant criminal proceedings. Given the persistent
ambiguities, the Office decided to initiate an inspection and to order a local investigation.

A preview of the file material
The Police of the Czech Republic and also by assessing the related documents, the Office came to the conclusion
to conclude that for specific processing, i.e. retrieval of personal data
relating to the person of the complainant in the ROB, the Police of the Czech Republic did not set specifics
purpose in the sense of ยง 25 paragraph 1 letter a) of Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on processing
personal data, and therefore, in this particular case, the processing policy in question
of personal data (i.e. determination of a specific purpose for this processing) violated.
Information about the complainant was not part of the subject file of the criminal proceedings.

During the inspection it turned out that
the particulars of the complainant were merely written on a loose sheet of paper which was pro
further unused subsequently shredded. The check showed that the complainant was in
within the meaning of ยง 28 paragraph 1 letter a) of Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data
data, incorrectly informed about the purpose of processing personal data concerning him.

Controlled person against
she did not object to the inspection findings.

Additional information: In the given case, the Police of the Czech Republic was in a position
governing body. This is a term introduced by Title III of Act No.
110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data. This provision applies when
processing of personal data that is necessary for the performance of the task and public performance
the powers of the administrative body established by other laws (among others, e.g. Act No.
273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic) for the purpose of prevention, search and
detection of criminal activity, prosecution of crimes, execution of sentences and protection
measures, ensuring the security of the Czech Republic or ensuring public
order and internal security, including searches for persons and things.



ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Police of the Czech Republic > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with viewing the population registerView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



