GDPR application events

On January 31, 2019, the National Supervisory Authority organized a working meeting with RENAR regarding the application of the specific provisions regarding the accreditation of certification bodies in application of Law no. 190/2018.
On February 1, 2019, the representatives of the National Supervisory Authority participated in the workshop organized by the Expert Forum Association in Iasi. This event, dedicated to the identification and clarification of specific issues arising from the application of Regulation (EU) 679/2016 at the level of associations and foundations, was addressed to non-governmental operators. On this occasion, the obligations of the operators in order to comply with the processing rules established by Regulation (EU) 679/2016 were highlighted, as well as the rights of the persons concerned in their relations with NGOs.
In this context, the representatives of the National Supervisory Authority brought to the attention of the participants, within the specific panel, issues regarding the implications of respecting the rights of data subjects, operator and proxy, data protection officer, mapping and impact assessment, security breach notification and insurance. data security, the sanctioning regime.
On March 26, 2019, a meeting took place at the headquarters of the National Supervisory Authority with a law firm, during which issues regarding data processing in the context of employment were addressed, also reported to the provisions of Law no. 190/2018.
On March 27, 2019, the representatives of the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing participated in the debates organized by the European Institute of Romania in partnership with Euractiv Network on "Protection of personal data in employment relationships".
On March 27, 2019, a meeting was organized at the headquarters of the National Supervisory Authority with CNSAS regarding the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in the specific activity.
On 12 April 2019, the National Supervisory Authority will hold a meeting to discuss issues related to the impact of Regulation (EU) 679/2016 on human resources, which will be attended by AmCham members.
On April 17, 2019, an event on data processing by associations and foundations will take place in Timişoara, with the participation of representatives of the National Supervisory Authority.

Legal and Communication Office
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.