1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00266/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 13, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter referred to as the claimant),
by means of which he formulates a claim against the ASSOCIATION OF PROPRIETORS
RRR with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the installation of a system
of video surveillance installed in ***ADDRESS.1, regarding which there are indications of
a possible breach of the provisions of the data protection regulations.

One of the reasons underlying the claim is:

“[…] The posters are obsolete and, furthermore, they do not contain the
information necessary for the user […].”
Attach photographs of two posters located in ***LOCALIDAD.1. The date of taking
of the image that appears in the screenshot of the device with which they have been
performed is "today" at 5:48 p.m. and 5:53 p.m.

SECOND: Prior to admitting this claim for processing, the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection directed, on March 5, 2020, a
request for information to the respondent in which he was informed that the Agency of
Data Protection had been aware of the existence of security cameras
video surveillance located at the address indicated in the first event that could be
violating the data protection regulations and in which it was requested that, in the
period of one month, accredit the conformity of the aforementioned facility with the aforementioned
normative

Given the rejection of the electronic notification because ten days have elapsed since
made available, a new request for information was reiterated on the 23rd of
March 2020 by mail. In this reiteration, the respondent was reminded that,
in compliance with article 14.2 of Law 39/2015 of October 1, of the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the
legal persons and entities without legal personality, as well as those who
represent obligated subjects, among others, they will be obliged to relate to the
Public Administrations through electronic means. The notification of the
reiteration was returned by Sobrante (not withdrawn in office) on June 22, 2020

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 17
August 2020.

THIRD: On December 10, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of
the same standard.

FOURTH: The electronic notification of the initiation agreement was made available to the
claimed on December 14, 2020 through the Notification Service
Electronic and Enabled Electronic Address without the former accessing its content
within 10 calendar days. In accordance with the provisions of article 43.2 of the
LPACAP, the aforementioned notification must be understood as rejected.

FIFTH: Formal notification of the initiation agreement, the respondent has not submitted
brief of allegations, for which what is stated in article 64.2.f) of
the LPACAP, which establishes that if claims are not made within the term
foreseen on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered
motion for a resolution when it contains a precise pronouncement on the
imputed responsibility, for which a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: ***ADDRESS.1 has a video surveillance system for the
buildings that are part of said urbanization.

SECOND: In accordance with the images provided in the claim, the
posters are of two types:

1. Poster of the company Domo Activa in which the only information is the
responsible section, being, in this case, Princess Park.

2. Yellow poster that responds to Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, Protection of Personal Data.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of article 13
of the RGPD, which states the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

The aforementioned infractions are typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which
provides the following:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22 […]”

This infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

[…] b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22; […]».

For the purposes of the limitation period of the infraction, article 74 of the LOPDGDD
establishes:

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13
and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. […]”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

III

Article 13 of the RGPD —in compliance with the duty of information contained in the
preceding article 12 of the same legal text- regulates the information that must be
be provided when the personal data is obtained from the interested party, a situation that
occurs in cases in which images are captured by a system of
video surveillance. In this sense, article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD establishes that "The
duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information".

In the present case, the assessment of the set of factual elements in the
the sanctioning procedure shows that COMMONWEALTH OF
PROPIETARIOS R.R.R., as the data controller through the
video surveillance system, it does not have adequate informative posters for the
data protection regulations. Thus, the signs with the company logo
DOMO ACTIVA only identify the claimant, but do not provide
information about the exercise of the rights provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the
GDPR. The other types of posters respond to a model appropriate to the previous Law
15/1999, so they should be adapted to the regulations currently in force and
proceeding to update the information provided to the extent that it is
accurate.

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD, its art.
58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, when deciding the sanction to be imposed, it has been taken into account
account, in particular, that it is an entity whose main activity is not
linked to the processing of personal data and that the alleged infringement is
considered mild by the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

For all these reasons, it is considered that the appropriate sanction to be imposed is
warning, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in
in relation to what is stated in Considering 148, cited above.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period […]”, the person in charge must prove, within a period of (1) month, the
following ends:

 Having proceeded to complete the information contained in the devices
informative (it must be identified, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently visible place, both in
open and closed spaces.

 That it keeps the information referred to in the document available to those affected.
quoted GDPR.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the ASSOCIATION OF OWNERS R.R.R., with NIF
***NIF.1 for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
RGPD, a sanction of WARNING.

SECOND: ORDER COMMONWEALTH OF PROPRIETORS R.R.R., with NIF
***NIF.1, which certifies, within a maximum period of ONE MONTH from the notification of the
this resolution, the following extremes:

 Having proceeded to complete the information contained in the devices
informative (it must be identified, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently visible place, both in
open and closed spaces.

 That it keeps the information referred to in the document available to those affected.
quoted GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMONWEALTH OF
OWNERS R.R.R. and inform the claimant.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

