  Tuesday, March 24, 2020 2: Press Releases Suddenly working from home - and data protection? The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein informs Due to the corona pandemic, all people should limit their direct contacts. This also means that most of them are now staying at home. Whenever possible, companies and authorities send their employees to work from home. What do you have to pay attention to in order to also meet the data protection requirements at home? Marit Hansen, the state representative for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein, reports on numerous inquiries on the subject of working from home: "For many employees, the motto right now is: Working from home immediately! Many companies and authorities did not know this at all or only in exceptional cases. For this reason, improvisations are being made in many places to keep operations running and to meet the needs of all employees as well as possible.” The companies and authorities that already have the technical equipment and organizational instructions for working from home usually only have little need for adjustment. For the others, however, many questions arise. What do employees have to think about so that their home office does not become a data protection risk? For this reason, Hansen's office, the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein (ULD), publishes the most important rules and measures for working from home on the website: PDF: "Data protection: Suddenly in the home office - what now?": Hansen emphasizes the Importance: “Anyone who is spontaneously sent to work from home often has no idea how personal data can be protected from unauthorized access at home, during transport or during data transmission. Technical and organizational security measures are important for working on the computer, with paper documents or even when making phone calls. And in the event that a data breach does happen, all employees must know who to report it to. Attention: Not all activities may be carried out in the home office - for example, some order processing contracts exclude this." The ULD's assistance is intended to provide orientation for the near future. Hansen advises that those companies and government agencies that have not yet created written rules for working from home do so now. The information from the State Commissioner for Data Protection on topics related to the corona pandemic is provided under the following link and updated regularly: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/corona/ If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: corona, it security, mobile computing, news, press releasesArticle with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure